
     ----CITATION----
        Corelli, Marie (1855-1924). A Romance of Two Worlds, Volume 2. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 304 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (22-February-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7148
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    A Romance of Two Worlds. 
                    A Novel.
                
                BY MARIE CORELLI.
                IN TWO VOLUMES.
                VOL. II.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON, Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the
                        Queen.
                
                1886.
                [All Rights Reserved.]
            
            
                
                CONTENTS OF VOL. II.
                
                    I. MY STRANGE DEPARTURE 1
                    II. A MINIATURE CREATION 35
                    III. SECRETS OF THE SUN AND MOON 66
                    IV. SOCIABLE CONVERSE 91
                    V. THE ELECTRIC CREED 121
                    VI. DEATH BY LIGHTNING 156
                    VII. THE STRUGGLE FOR THE MASTERY 220
                    VIII. CONCLUSION 276
                
            
        
        
            
            
            A ROMANCE OF TWO WORLDS.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                MY STRANGE DEPARTURE.
                THE next morning brought me two letters; one from Mrs. Everard, telling
                    me that she and the Colonel had resolved on coming to Paris.
                “All the nice people are going away from here,” she wrote. “Madame Didier and her
                    husband have started for Naples; and, to crown our lonesomeness, Raffaello
                    Cellini packed up all his traps, and left us
                    yesterday morning en route for Rome. The
                    weather continues to be delicious; but you seem to be getting on so well in
                    Paris, in spite of the cold there, we have made up our minds to join you, the
                    more especially as I want to renovate my wardrobe. We shall go straight to the
                    Grand Hotel; and I am writing to Mrs. Challoner by this post, asking her to get
                    us rooms. We are so glad you are feeling nearly recovered—of course, you must
                    not leave your physician till you are quite ready. At any rate, we shall not
                    arrive till the end of next week.”
                I began to calculate. During that strange interview in the chapel, Heliobas had
                    said that in eight days more I should be strong enough to undergo the
                    transmigration he had promised to effect upon me. Those eight days were now
                    completed on this very morning. I was glad of this; for I did not care to see
                    Mrs. Everard or anyone till the experiment was
                    over. The other letter I received was from Mrs. Challoner, who asked me to give
                    an “Improvisation” at the Grand Hotel that day fortnight.
                When I went down to breakfast, I mentioned both these letters, and said,
                    addressing myself to Heliobas:
                “Is it not rather a sudden freak of Raffaello Cellini's to leave Cannes? We all
                    thought he was settled for the winter there. Did you know he was going to
                    Rome?”
                “Yes,” replied Heliobas, as he stirred his coffee abstractedly. “I knew he was
                    going there someday this month; his presence is required there on business.”
                “Are you going to give the Improvisation this Mrs. Challoner asks you for?”
                    inquired Zara.
                I glanced at Heliobas. He answered for me.
                “I should certainly give it if I were you,” he said quietly; “there will be nothing to prevent your doing so at the date
                    named.”
                I was relieved. I had not been altogether able to divest myself of the idea that
                    I might possibly never come out alive from the electric trance to which I had
                    certainly consented; and this assurance on the part of Heliobas was undoubtedly
                    comforting. We were all very silent that morning; we all wore grave and
                    preoccupied expressions. Zara was very pale, and appeared lost in thought.
                    Heliobas, too, looked slightly careworn, as though he had been up all night,
                    engaged in some brain-exhausting labor. No mention was made of Prince Ivan; we
                    avoided his name by a sort of secret mutual understanding. When the breakfast
                    was over, I looked with a fearless smile at the calm face of Heliobas, which
                    appeared nobler and more dignified than ever with that slight touch of sadness
                    upon it, and said softly:
                
                “The eight days are accomplished.”
                He met my gaze fully, with a steady and serious observation of my features, and
                    replied:
                “My child, I am aware of it. I expect you in my private room at noon. In the
                    meantime speak to no one—not even to Zara; read no books; touch no note of
                    music. The chapel has been prepared for you; go there and pray. When you see a
                    small point of light touch the extreme edge of the cross upon the altar, it will
                    be twelve o'clock, and you will then come to me.”
                With these words, uttered in a grave and earnest tone, he left me. A sensation of
                    sudden awe stole upon me. I looked at Zara. She laid her finger on her lips and
                    smiled, enjoining silence; then drawing my hand close within her own, she led me
                    to the door of the chapel. There she took a soft veil of some white transparent
                    fabric, and flung it over me, embracing and kissing me tenderly as she did so, but uttering no word. Taking
                    my hand again, she entered the chapel with me, and accompanied me through what
                    seemed a blaze of light and colour to the high altar, before which was placed a
                        prie-dieu of crimson velvet. Motioning me
                    to kneel, she kissed me once more through the filmy veil that covered me from
                    head to foot; then turning noiselessly away she disappeared, and I heard the
                    heavy oaken door close behind her. Left alone, I was able to quietly take note
                    of everything around me. The altar before which I knelt was ablaze with lighted
                    candles, and a wealth of the purest white flowers decorated it, mingling their
                    delicious fragrance with the faintly perceptible odour of incense. On all sides
                    of the chapel, in every little niche, and at every shrine, tapers were burning
                    like fireflies in a summer twilight. At the foot of the large crucifix, which
                    occupied a somewhat shadowy corner, lay a wreath of magnificent crimson roses. It would seem as though some high
                    festival were about to be celebrated, and I gazed around me with a beating
                    heart, half expecting some invisible touch to awaken the notes of the organ and
                    a chorus of spirit-voices to respond with the “Gloria in excelsis Deo!” But
                    there was silence—absolute, beautiful, restful silence. I strove to collect my
                    thoughts, and turning my eyes towards the jewelled cross that surmounted the
                    high altar, I clasped my hands, and began to wonder how and for what I should
                    pray. Suddenly the idea struck me that surely it was selfish to ask Heaven for
                    anything; would it not be better to reflect on all that had already been given
                    me, and to offer up thanks? Scarcely had this thought entered my mind when a
                    sort of overwhelming sense of unworthiness came over me. Had I ever been
                    unhappy? I wondered. If so, why? I began to count up my blessings and compare
                    them with my misfortunes. Exhausted
                    pleasure-seekers may be surprised to hear that I proved the joys of my life to
                    have far exceeded my sorrows. I found that I had sight, hearing, youth, sound
                    limbs, an appreciation of the beautiful in art and nature, and an intense power
                    of enjoyment. For all these things, impossible of purchase by mere wealth,
                    should I not give thanks? For every golden ray of sunshine, for every flower
                    that blooms, for the harmonies of the wind and sea, for the singing of birds and
                    the shadows of trees, should I not—should we not all give thanks? For is there
                    any human sorrow so great that the blessing of mere daylight on the earth does
                    not far exceed? We mortals are spoilt and petted children—the more gifts we have
                    the more we crave; and when we burn or wound ourselves by our own obstinacy or
                    carelessness, we are ungratefully prone to blame the Supreme Benefactor for our
                    faults. We don black mourning robes as a sort of
                    sombre protest against Him for having some special object of our choice and
                    love, whereas, if we believed in Him and were grateful to Him, we should wear
                    dazzling white in sign of rejoicing that our treasure is safe in the land of
                    perfect joy where we ourselves desire to be. Do we suffer from illness, loss of
                    money, position, or friends, we rail against Fate—another name for God—and
                    complain like babes who have broken their toys; yet the sun shines on, the
                    seasons come and go, the lovely panorama of Nature unrolls itself all for our
                    benefit, while we murmur and fret and turn our eyes away in anger.
                Thinking of these things and kneeling before the altar, my heart became filled
                    with gratitude; and no petition suggested itself to me save one, and that was,
                    “Let me believe and love!” I thought of the fair, strong, stately figure of
                    Christ, standing out in the world's history, like a statue of pure white marble against a dark
                    background; I mused on the endurance, patience, forgiveness, and perfect
                    innocence of that most spotless life which was finished on the cross, and again
                    I murmured, “Let me believe and love!” And I became so absorbed in meditation
                    that the time fled fast, till a sudden sparkle of flame flashing across the
                    altar-steps caused me to look up. The jewelled cross had become a cross of fire.
                    The point of light I had been told to watch for had not only touched the extreme
                    edge, but had crept down among all the precious stones and lit them up like
                    stars. I afterwards learned that this effect was produced by means of a thin
                    electric wire, which, communicating with a timepiece constructed on the same
                    system, illuminated the cross at sunrise, noon and sunset. It was time for me to
                    join Heliobas. I rose, gently, and left the chapel with a quiet and reverent
                    step, for I have always thought that to
                    manifest hurry and impatience in any place set apart for the worship of the
                    Creator is to prove yourself one of the unworthiest things created. Once outside
                    the door I laid aside my veil, and then, with a perfectly composed and fearless
                    mind, went straight to the Electrician's study. I shall never forget the intense
                    quiet of the house that morning. The very fountain in the hall seemed to tinkle
                    in a sort of subdued whisper. I found Heliobas seated at his table, reading. How
                    my dream came vividly back to me, as I saw him in that attitude! I felt that I
                    knew what he was reading. He looked up as I entered, and greeted me with kindly
                    yet grave smile. I broke silence abruptly.
                “Your book is open,” I said, “at a passage commencing thus: ‘The universe is
                    upheld solely by the Law of Love. A majestic invisible Protectorate governs the
                    winds, the tides.’ Is it not so?
                
                “It is so,” returned Heliobas. “Are you acquainted with the book?”
                “Only through the dream I had of you at Cannes,” I answered. “I do think Signor
                    Cellini had some power over me.”
                “Of course he had in your then weak state. But now that you are as strong as he
                    is, he could not influence you at all. Let us be brief in our converse, my
                    child. I have a few serious things to say to you before you leave me, on your
                    celestial journey.”
                I trembled slightly, but took the chair he pointed out to me—a large easy-chair
                    in which one could recline and sleep.
                “Listen,” continued Heliobas; “I told you, when you first came here, that
                    whatever I might do to restore you to health, you would have it in your power to
                    repay me amply. You are restored to health; will you give me my
                    reward?”
                “I would and will do anything to prove my
                    gratitude to you,” I said earnestly. “Only tell me how.”
                “You are aware,” he went on, “of my theories respecting the Electric Spirit or
                    Soul in Man. It is progressive, as I have told you—it begins as a germ—it goes
                    on increasing in power and beauty for ever, till it is great and pure enough to
                    enter the last of all worlds—God's world. But there are sometimes hindrances to
                    its progression—obstacles in its path, which cause it to recoil and retire a
                    long way back—so far back occasionally that it has to commence its journey over
                    again. Now, by my earnest researches, I am able to study and watch the progress
                    of my own inner force or soul. So far, all has been well—prayerfully and humbly
                    I may say I believe all has been well. But I foresee an approaching shadow—a
                    difficulty—a danger—which, if it cannot be repelled or passed in some way,
                    threatens to violently push back my 
                        advanc-
                        advancing
                     ing spiritual nature, so that, with
                    much grief and pain, I shall have to recommence the work that I had hoped was
                    done. I cannot, with all my best efforts, discover
                        what this darkening obstacle is—but you, yes,
                        you,”—for I had started up in surprise—“you, when you are
                    lifted up high enough to behold these things, may, being perfectly unselfish in
                    this research, attain to the knowledge of it and explain it to me, when you
                    return. In trying to probe the secret for myself, it is of course purely for my
                    own interest; and nothing clear, nothing satisfactory can be obtained, in which
                    selfishness has ever so slight a share. You, if indeed I deserve your gratitude
                    for the aid I have given you—you will be able to search out the matter more
                    certainly, being in the position of one soul working for another. Still, I
                    cannot compel you to do this for me—I only ask, will you?”
                His entreating and anxious look touched me
                    keenly; but I was amazed and perplexed, and could not yet realize what strange
                    thing was going to happen to me. But whatever occurred I was resolved to give a
                    ready consent to his request; therefore I said firmly:
                “I will do my best, I promise you. Remember that I do not know, I cannot even
                    guess where I am going, or what strange sensations will overcome me; but if I am
                    permitted to have any recollection of earth at all, I will try to find ont what
                    you ask.”
                Heliobas seemed satisfied, and rising from his chair, unlocked a heavily-bound
                    iron safe. From this he took a glass flask of a strange, ever-moving, glittering
                    fluid, the same in appearance as that which Raffaello Cellini had forbidden me
                    to drink. He then paused and looked searchingly at me.
                “Tell me,” he said in an authoritative tone, “tell me why you wish
                    to see what to mortals is unseen? What motive
                    have you? What ulterior plan?”
                I hesitated. Then I gathered my strength together and answered decisively:
                “I desire to know why this world, this universe exists; and I also wish to prove,
                    if possible, the truth and necessity of religion. And I think I would give my
                    life, if it were worth anything, to be certain of the truth of
                    Christianity.”
                Heliobas gazed in my face with a sort of half-pity, half-censure.
                “You have a daring aim,” he said slowly, “and you are a bold seeker. But shame,
                    repentance, and sorrow await you where you are going, as well as rapture and
                    amazement. ‘I would give my life, if it were worth anything.’ That
                    utterance has saved you—otherwise to soar into an unexplored wilderness of
                    spheres, weighted by your own doubts and guided solely by your own wild desires,
                    would be a fruitless journey.”
                
                I felt abashed as I met his steady scrutinizing eyes.
                “Surely it is well to wish to know the reason of things?” I asked, with some
                    timidity.
                “The desire of knowledge is a great virtue, certainly,” he replied; “it is not
                    truly felt by one in a thousand. Most persons are content to live and die,
                    absorbed in their own petty commonplace affairs, without troubling themselves as
                    to the reasons of their existence. Yet it is almost better, like these, to
                    wallow in blind ignorance than wantonly to doubt the Creator because He is
                    unseen, or to put a 
                        self-opiniated
                        self-opinionated
                     construction on His mysteries because He chooses to veil them from our
                    eyes.”
                “I do not doubt!” I exclaimed earnestly, “I only want to make sure, and then
                    perhaps I may persuade others.”
                “You can never compel faith,” said Heliobas calmly. “You are going to see wonderful things that no tongue or pen can
                    adequately describe. Well, when you return to earth again, do you suppose you
                    can make people believe the story of your experiences? Never! Be thankful if you
                    are the possessor of a secret joy yourself, and do not attempt to impart it to
                    others who will only repel and mock you.”
                “Not even to one other?” I asked hesitatingly.
                A warm, kindly smile seemed to illuminate his face, as I put this question.
                “Yes, to one other—the other half of yourself—you may tell all things,” he said.
                    “But now, no more converse. If you are quite ready, drink this.”
                He held cut to me a small tumbler filled with the sparkling volatile liquid he
                    had poured from the flask. For one moment my courage forsook me, and an icy
                    shiver ran through my veins. Then I bethought myself of all my boasted bravery; was it possible that I should fail now at
                    this critical moment? I allowed myself no more time for reflection, but took the
                    glass from his hand and drained its contents to the last drop. It was tasteless,
                    but sparkling and warm on the tongue. Scarcely had I swallowed it, when a
                    curiously light, dizzy sensation overcame me, and the figure of Heliobas
                    standing before me seemed to assume gigantic proportions. I saw his hands
                    extend—his eyes, like lamps of electric flame, burned through and through me—and
                    like a distant echo, I heard the deep vibrating tones of his voice uttering the
                    following words:
                “Azùl! Azùl! Lift up this light and daring spirit unto thyself; be its pioneer
                    upon the path it must pursue; suffer it to float untrammelled through the wide
                    and glorious Continents of Air; give it form and force to alight on any of the
                    vast and beautiful spheres it may desire to
                    behold; and if worthy, permit it to gaze, if only for a brief interval, upon the
                    supreme vision of the First and Last of worlds. By the force thou givest unto
                    me, I free this soul; do thou, Azùl, quickly receive it!”
                A dense darkness now grew thickly around me—I lost all power over my limbs—I felt
                    myself being lifted up forcibly and rapidly, up, up into some illimitable,
                    terrible space of blackness and nothingness. I could not think, move or cry
                    out—I could only feel that I was rising, rising, steadily, swiftly,
                    breathlessly... when suddenly a long quivering flash of radiance, like the
                    fragment of a rainbow, struck dazzlingly across my sight. Darkness? What had I
                    to do with darkness? I knew not the word—I was only conscious of light—light
                    exquisitely pure and brilliant—light through which I stepped as easily as a bird
                    flies in air. Perfectly awake to my sensations, I felt somehow that there was nothing remarkable in them—I seemed to
                    be at home in some familiar element. Delicate hands held mine—a face far
                    lovelier than the loveliest face of woman ever dreamed by poet or painter,
                    smiled radiantly at me, and I smiled back again. A voice whispered in strange
                    musical murmurs, such as I well seemed to know and comprehend:
                “Gaze behind thee ere the picture fades.”
                I obeyed, half reluctantly, and saw as a passing shadow in a glass, or a sort of
                    blurred miniature painting, the room where Heliobas stood, watching some strange
                    imperfect shape, which I seemed faintly to recognise. It looked like a small
                    cast in clay, very badly executed, of the shape I at present wore; but it was
                    incomplete, as though the sculptor had given it up as a failure and gone away,
                    leaving it unfinished.
                “Did I dwell in that body?” I mused to myself as
                    I felt the perfection of my then state of being. “How came I shut in such a
                    prison? How poor a form—how destitute of faculties—how full of infirmities—how
                    limited in capabilities—how narrow in intelligence—how ignorant—how mean!”
                And I turned for relief to the shining companion who held me, and obeying an
                    impulse suddenly imparted, I felt myself floating higher and higher till the
                    last limits of the atmosphere surrounding the Earth were passed, and fields of
                    pure and cloudless ether extended before us. Here we met myriad of creatures
                    like ourselves, all hastening in various directions—all lovely and radiant as a
                    dream of the fairies. Some of these beings were quite tiny and delicate—some of
                    lofty stature and glorious appearance; their forms were human, yet so refined,
                    improved, and perfected, that they were unlike, while so like humanity.
                
                “Askest thou nothing?” whispered the voice beside me.
                “Tell me,” I answered, “what I must know.”
                “These spirits that we behold,” went on the voice, “are the guardians of all the
                    inhabitants of all the planets. Their labours are those of love and penitence.
                    Their work is to draw other souls to God—to attract them by warnings, by
                    pleading, by praying. They have all worn the garb of mortality themselves, and
                    they teach mortals by their own experience. For these radiant creatures are
                    expiating sins of their own in thus striving to save others—the oftener they
                    succeed the nearer they approach to Heaven. This is what is vaguely understood
                    on your Earth as purgatory; the sufferings of spirits who love and long for the
                    presence of their Creator, and who yet are not pure enough to approach Him. Only
                    by serving and saving others can they obtain at last their own joy. Every act of ingratitude and forgetfulness and
                    wickedness committed by a mortal, detains one or another of these patient
                    workers longer away from Heaven—imagine then what a weary while many of them
                    have to wait!”
                I made no answer, and we floated on. Higher and higher—higher and higher—till at
                    last my guide, whom I knew to be that being whom Heliobas had called Azùl, bade
                    me pause. We were floating close together in what seemed a sea of translucent
                    light. From this point I could learn something of the mighty workings of the
                    Universe. I gazed upon countless solar systems, that like wheels within wheels
                    revolved with such rapidity that they seemed all one wheel. I saw planets whirl
                    around and around with breathless swiftness, like glittering balls flung through
                    the air—burning comets flared fiercely past like torches of alarm for God's wars
                    against Evil—a marvelous procession of
                    indescribable wonders sweeping on for ever in circles, grand, huge, and
                    immeasurable. And as I watched the superb pageant, I was not startled or
                    confused—I looked upon it as anyone might look on any quiet landscape scene in
                    what we know of Nature. I scarcely could perceive the Earth from whence I had
                    come—so tiny a speck was it—nothing but a mere pin's point in the burning whirl
                    of immensities. I felt, however, perfectly conscious of a superior force in
                    myself to all these enormous forces around me—I knew without needing any
                    explanation that I was formed of an indestructible essence, and that were all
                    these stars and systems suddenly to end in one fell burst of brilliant horror,
                        I should still exist—I should know and remember and feel—should
                    be able to watch the birth of a new Universe, and take part in its growth and
                    design.
                “Remind me why these wonders exist,” I said, turning to my guide, and speaking
                        in those dulcet sounds which were like
                    music and yet like speech; “and why amid them all the Earth is believed by its
                    inhabitants to have merited destruction, and yet to have been found worthy of
                    redemption?”
                “Thy last question shall be answered first,” replied Azùl. “Seest thou yonder
                    planet circled with a ring? It is known to the dwellers on Earth, of whom when
                    in clay thou art one, as Saturn. Descend with me!”
                And in a breath of time we floated downwards and alighted on a broad and
                    beautiful plain, where flowers of strange shape and colour grew in profusion.
                    Here we were met by creatures of lofty stature and dazzling beauty, human in
                    shape, yet angelic in countenance. They knelt to us with reverence and joy, and
                    then passed on to their toil or pleasure, whichever invited them, and I looked
                    to Azùl for explanation.
                “To these children of the Creator,” said that
                    radiant guide, “is granted the ability to see and to converse with the spirits
                    of the air. They know them and love them, and implore their protection. In this
                    planet sickness and old age are unknown, and death comes as a quiet sleep. The
                    period of existence is about two hundred years, according to the Earth's
                    standard of time; and the process of decay is no more unlovely than the gentle
                    withering of roses. The influence of the electric belt around their world is a
                    bar to pestilence and disease, and scatters health with light. All sciences,
                    arts, and inventions known on Earth are known here, only to greater perfection.
                    The three important differences between the inhabitants of this planet and those
                    who dwell on Earth are these: first, they have no rulers in authority, as each
                    one perfectly governs himself; second, they do not marry, as the law of
                    attraction which draws together any two of opposite sexes, holds them fast in 
                        invio-
                        inviolable
                     lable fidelity; thirdly, there is no
                    creature in all the immensity of this magnificent sphere who has ever doubted,
                    or whoever will doubt, the existence of the Creator.”
                A thrill of fiery shame seemed to dart through my spiritual being as I heard
                    this, and I made no answer. Some fairy-like little creatures, the children of
                    the Saturnites, as I supposed, here came running towards us and knelt down,
                    reverently clasping their hands in prayer. They then gathered flowers and hung
                    them on that portion of ground where we stood, and gazed at us fearlessly and
                    lovingly, as they might have gazed at some rare bird or butterfly.
                Azùl signed to me, and we rose while yet in their sight, and soaring through the
                    radiance of the Belt, which was like a sun woven into a circle, we soon left
                    Saturn far behind us, and alighted on Venus. Here seas, mountains, forests,
                    lakes, and meadows were one vast garden, in which the bloom and verdure of all worlds seemed to find a home. Here
                    were realized the dreams of sculptors and painters, in the graceful forms and
                    exquisite faces of the women, and the splendid strength and godlike beauty of
                    the men. A brief glance was sufficient to show me that the moving spring of all
                    the civilization of this radiant planet was the love of Nature and Art united.
                    There were no wars—for there were no different nations. All the inhabitants were
                    like one vast family; they worked for one another, and vied with each other in
                    paying homage to those of the loftiest genius among them. They had one supreme
                    Monarch to whom they all rendered glad obedience; and he was a Poet, ready to
                    sacrifice his throne with joy as soon as his people should discover a greater
                    than he. For they all loved not the artist but the Art; and selfishness was a
                    vice unknown. Here, none loved or were wedded save those who had spiritual sympathies, and here too, no creature
                    existed who did not believe in and worship the Creator. The same state of things
                    existed in Jupiter, the planet we next visited, where everything was performed
                    by electricity. Here, persons living hundreds of miles apart could yet converse
                    together with perfect ease through an electric medium; ships ploughed the seas
                    by electricity; printing, an art of which the dwellers on Earth are so proud,
                    was accomplished by electricity—in fact, everything in the way of science, art,
                    and invention known to us was also known in Jupiter, only to greater perfection,
                    because tempered and strengthened by an electric force which never failed. From
                    Jupiter, Azùl guided me to many other fair and splendid worlds—yet none of them
                    were Paradise; all had some slight drawback—some physical or spiritual ailment,
                    as it were, which had to be combated with and conquered. All the 
                        in-
                        inhabitants
                     habitants of each star longed for
                    something they had not—something better, greater, and higher—and therefore all
                    had discontent. They could not realize their best desires in the state of
                    existence they then were, therefore they all suffered disappointment. They were
                    all compelled to work in some way or another; they were all doomed to die. Yet,
                    unlike the dwellers on Earth, they did not, because their lives were more or
                    less constrained and painful, complain of or deny the goodness of God—on the
                    contrary, they believed in a future state which should be as perfect as their
                    present one was imperfect; and the chief aim and object of all their labours was
                    to become worthy of attaining that final grand result—Eternal Happiness and
                    Peace.
                “Readest thou the lesson in these glowing spheres, teeming with life and
                    learning!” murmured Azùl to me, as we soared swiftly on together. “Know that not
                        one smallest world in all the myriad
                    systems circling before thee, holds a single human creature who doubts his
                    Maker. Not one! except thine own doomed star! Behold it yonder—sparkling feebly,
                    like a faint flame amid sunshine—how poor a speck it is—how like a scarcely
                    visible point in all the brilliancy of the ever-revolving wheel of Life! Yet
                    there dwell the dwarfs of clay—the men and women who pretend to love while they
                    secretly hate and despise one another. There, wealth is a god, and the greed of
                    gain a virtue. There, genius starves, and heroism dies unrewarded. There, faith
                    is martyred, and unbelief elected sovereign monarch of the people. There, the
                    sublime, unreachable mysteries of the Universe are haggled over by poor finite
                    minds who cannot call their lives their own. There, nation wars against nation,
                    creed against creed, soul against soul. Alas, fated planet! How soon shalt thou
                    be extinct, and thy place shall know thee no
                    more!”
                I gazed earnestly at my radiant guide. “If that is true,” I said, “why then
                    should we have a legend that God, in the person of one called Christ, came to
                    die for so miserable and mean a race of beings?”
                Azùl answered not, but turned her luminous eyes upon me with a sort of wide
                    dazzling wonder. Some strange impelling force bore me onward, and before I could
                    realize it I was alone. Alone, in a vast area of light through which I floated,
                    serene and conscious of power. A sound falling from a great height reached me;
                    it was first like a grand organ-chord, and then like a voice, trumpet-clear and
                    far-echoing.
                “Spirit that searchest for the Unseen,” it said, “because I will not that one
                    atom of true worth should perish, unto thee shall be given a vision—unto thee
                    shall be taught a lesson thou dreamest not of.
                    Thou shalt create; thou shalt design and plan;
                        thou shalt be worshipped, and thou shalt destroy!
                    Rest therefore in the light and behold the things that are in the light, for the
                    time cometh when all that seemeth clear and visible now shall be but darkness.
                    And they that love me not shall have no place of abode in that hour!”
                The voice ceased. Awed, yet consoled, I listened for it again. There was no more
                    sound. Around me was illimitable light—illimitable silence. But a strange scene
                    unfolded itself swiftly before me—a sort of shifting dream that was a reality,
                    yet so wonderfully unreal—a vision that impressed itself on every portion of my
                    intelligence; a kind of spirit-drama in which I was forced to enact the chief
                    part, and where a mystery that I had deemed impenetrable was made perfectly
                    clear and simple of comprehension.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                A MINIATURE CREATION.
                IN my heaven-uplifted dream, I thought I saw a circular spacious garden
                    in which all the lovely landscapes of a superior world appeared to form
                    themselves by swift degrees. The longer I looked at it, the more beautiful it
                    became, and a little star shone above it like a sun. Trees and flowers sprang up
                    under my gaze, and all stretched themselves towards me, as though for
                    protection. Birds flew about and sang; some of them tried to get as near as
                    possible to the little sun they saw; and other living creatures began to move about in the shadows of the
                    groves, and on the fresh green grass. All the wonderful workings of Nature, as
                    known to us in the world, took place over again in this garden, which seemed
                    somehow to belong to me; and I watched everything with a certain satisfaction
                    and delight. Then the idea came to me that the place would be fairer if there
                    were either men or angels to inhabit it; and quick as light a whisper came to
                    me: 
                        “Create!”
                     And I thought in my dream that by the mere desire of my being, expressed in
                    waves of electric warmth that floated downwards from me to the earth I
                    possessed, my garden was suddenly filled with men, women, and children, each of
                    whom had a small portion of myself in them, inasmuch as it was I who made them
                    move and talk and occupy themselves in all manner of amusements. Many of them
                    knelt down to me and prayed, and offered
                    thankgivings for having been created; but some of them went instead to the
                    little star, which they called a sun, and thanked that, and prayed to that
                    instead. Then others went and cut down the trees in the garden, and dug up
                    stones and built themselves little cities, where they all dwelt together like
                    flocks of sheep, and ate and drank and made merry with the things I had given
                    them. Then I thought that I had increased their intelligence and quickness of
                    perception, and by-and-by they grew so proud that they forgot everything but
                    themselves. They ceased to remember how they were created, and they cared no
                    more to offer praises to their little sun, that through me gave them light and
                    heat. But because something of my essence still was in them, they always
                    instinctively sought to worship a superior creature to themselves; and puzzling
                    themselves in their folly, they made hideous images of wood and clay, unlike anything in heaven or earth, and offered
                    sacrifices and prayer to these lifeless puppets instead of to me. Then I turned
                    away my eyes in sorrow and pity, but never in anger; for I could not be wrathful
                    with these children of my own creation. And when I thus turned away my eyes, all
                    manner of evil came upon the once fair scene—pestilence and storm, disease and
                    vice. A dark shadow stole between my little world and me—the shadow of the
                    people's own wickedness. And as every delicate fibre of my spiritual being
                    repelled evil by the necessity of the pure light in which I dwelt serene, I
                    waited patiently for the mist to clear, so that I might again behold the beauty
                    of my garden. Suddenly a soft clamour smote upon my sense of hearing, and a
                    slender stream of light, like a connecting ray, seemed to be flung upwards
                    through the darkness that hid me from the people I had created, and loved. I
                    knew the sound —it was the mingled music of the
                    prayers of children. An infinite pity and pleasure touched me, my being thrilled
                    with love and tenderness; and yielding to these little ones who asked me for
                    protection, I turned my eyes again towards the garden I had designed for
                    fairness and pleasure. But alas! how changed it had become! No longer fresh and
                    sweet, the people had turned it into a wilderness; they had divided it into
                    small portions, and in so doing had divided themselves into separate companies
                    called nations, all of whom fought with each other fiercely for their different
                    little parterres or flower-beds. Some haggled and talked incessantly over the
                    mere possession of a stone which they called a rock; others busied themselves in
                    digging a little yellow metal out of the earth, which, when once obtained,
                    seemed to make the owners of it mad, for they straight way forgot everything
                    else. As I looked, the darkness between me and my creation grew denser, and was only pierced at last by those long wide shafts
                    of radiance caused by the innocent prayers of those who still remembered me. And
                    I was full of regret, for I saw my people wandering hither and thither, restless
                    and dissatisfied, perplexed by their own errors, and caring nothing for the love
                    I bore them. Then some of them advanced and began to question why they had been
                    created, forgetting completely how their lives had been originally designed by
                    me for happiness, love, and wisdom. Then they accused me of the existence of
                    evil, refusing to see that where there is light there is also darkness, and that
                    darkness is the rival force of the Universe, whence cometh silently the
                    Unnamable Oblivion of Souls. They could not see, my self-willed children, that
                    they had of their own desire sought the darkness and found it; and now, because
                    it gloomed above them like a pall, they refused to believe in the light where still I was, loving and striving to
                    attract them still. Yet it was not all darkness, and I knew that even what there
                    was might be repelled and cleared away if only my people would turn towards me
                    once more. So I sent down upon them all possible blessings—some they rejected
                    angrily, some they snatched at and threw away again, as though they were poor
                    and trivial—none of them were they thankful for, and none did they desire to
                    keep. And the darkness above them deepened, while my anxious pity and love for
                    them increased. For how could I turn altogether away from them, as long as but a
                    few remembered me? There were some of these weak children of mine who loved and
                    honoured me so well that they absorbed some of my light into themselves, and
                    became heroes, poets, musicians, teachers of high and noble thought, and
                    unselfish, devoted martyrs for the sake of the reverence they bore me. There
                        were women pure and sweet, who wore their
                    existence as innocently as lilies, and who turned to me to seek protection, not
                    for themselves, but for those they loved. There were little children, whose
                    asking voices were like waves of delicious music to my being, and for whom I had
                    a surpassing tenderness. And yet all these were a mere handful compared to the
                    numbers who denied my existence, and who had wilfully crushed out and repelled
                    every spark of my essence in themselves. And as I contemplated this, the voice I
                    had heard at the commencement of my dream rushed towards me like a mighty wind
                    broken through by thunder: 
                        “Destroy!”
                    
                A great pity and love possessed me. In deep awe, yet solemn earnestness, I
                    pleaded with that vast commanding voice.
                “Bid me not destroy!” I implored. “Command me not to disperse into nothingness these children of my fancy, some of whom
                    yet love and trust to me for safety. Let me strive once more to bring them out
                    of their darkness into the light—to bring them to the happiness I designed them
                    to enjoy. They have not all forgotten me—let me give them more time for thought
                    and recollection!”
                Again the great voice shook the air:
                “They love darkness rather than light; they love the perishable earth of which
                    they are in part composed, better than the germ of immortality with which they
                    were in the beginning endowed. This garden of thine is but a caprice of thy
                    intelligence; the creatures that inhabit it are soulless and unworthy, and are
                    an offence to that indestructible radiance of which thou art one ray. Therefore
                    I say unto thee again—destroy!”
                My yearning love grew stronger, and I pleaded with renewed force.
                
                “Oh, thou Unseen Glory!” I cried; “thou who hast filled me with this emotion of
                    love and pity which permeates and supports my existence, how canst thou bid me
                    take this sudden revenge upon my frail creation! No caprice was it that caused
                    me to design it; nothing but a thought of love and a desire of beauty. Even yet
                    I will fulfill my plan—even yet shall these erring children of mine return to me
                    in time, with patience. While one of them still lifts a hand in prayer to me, or
                    in gratitude, I cannot destroy! Bid me rather sink into the darkness of the
                    uttermost deep of shadow; only let me save these feeble ones from
                    destruction!”
                The voice replied not. A flashing opal brilliancy shot across the light in which
                    I rested; and I beheld an Angel, grand, lofty, majestic, with a countenance in
                    which shone the lustre of a myriad summer mornings.
                
                “Spirit that art escaped from the Sorrowful Star,” it said in accents clear and
                    sonorous, “wouldst thou indeed be content to suffer the loss of heavenly joy and
                    peace, in order to rescue thy perishing creation?”
                “I would!” I answered; “if I understood death, I would die to save one of those
                    frail creatures, who seek to know me and yet cannot find me through the darkness
                    they have brought upon themselves.”
                “To die,” said the Angel, “to understand death, thou wouldst need to become one
                    of them, to take upon thyself their form—to imprison all that brilliancy of
                    which thou art now composed, into a mean and common case of clay; and even if
                    thou couldst accomplish this, would thy children know thee or receive thee?”
                “Nay, but if I could suffer shame by them,” I cried impetuously, “I could not suffer sin. My being would be incapable of
                    error, and I would show these creatures of mine the bliss of purity, the joy of
                    wisdom, the ecstacy of light, the certainty of immortality, if they followed me.
                    And then I would die to show them death is easy, and in dying they would come to
                    me and find their happiness for ever!”
                The stature of the Angel grew more lofty and magnificent, and its star-like eyes
                    flashed fire.
                “Then, oh thou wanderer from the Earth!” it said, “understandeth thou not the
                    Christ?”
                A deep awe trembled through me. Meanwhile the garden I had thought a world
                    appeared to roll up like a cloudy scroll, and vanished, and I knew that it had
                    been a vision, and no more.
                “Oh doubting and foolish Spirit!” went on the Angel—“thou who art but one point
                    of living light in the Supreme 
                        Radi-
                        Radiance
                     ance, even thou wouldst
                    consent to immure thyself in the darkness of mortality for sake of thy fancied
                    creation! Even thou wouldst submit to suffer and to die, in order
                    to show the frail children of thy dream a purely sinless and spiritual example!
                    Even thou hast had the courage to plead with the One All-Sufficing
                    Voice against the destruction of what to thee was but a mirage floating in this
                    ether! Even thou hast had love, forgiveness, pity! Even
                        thou wouldst be willing to dwell among the creatures of thy
                    fancy as one of them, knowing in thy inner self that by so doing, thy spiritual
                    presence would have marked thy little world for ever as sanctified and
                    impossible to destroy. Even thou wouldst sacrifice a glory to
                    answer a child's prayer—even thou wouldst have patience! And yet thou hast dared
                    to deny to God those attributes which thou thyself dost possess—He is so great
                    and vast—thou so small and slight! For the love
                    thou feelest throbbing through thy being, He is the very commencement and
                    perfection of all love; if thou hast pity, He has ten thousand times more pity;
                    if thou canst forgive, remember that from Him flows all thy power
                    of forgiveness! There is nothing thou canst do, even at the highest height of
                    spiritual perfection, that He cannot surpass by a thousand million fold! Neither
                    shalt thou refuse to believe that He can also suffer. Know that nothing is more
                    godlike than unselfish sorrow—and the grief of the Creator over one erring human
                    soul is as vast as He Himself is vast. Why wouldst thou make of Him a being
                    destitute of the best emotions that He Himself bestows upon thee?
                        Thou wouldst have entered into thy dream-world and lived in it
                    and died in it, if by so doing thou couldst have drawn one of thy creatures back
                    to the love of thee; and wilt thou not receive the Christ?”
                
                I bowed my head, and a flood of joy rushed through me.
                “I believe—I believe and I love!” I murmured. “Desert me not, O radiant Angel! I
                    feel and know that all these wonders must soon pass away from my sight; but wilt
                    thou also go?”
                The Angel smiled and touched me.
                “I am thy guardian,” it said. “I have been with thee always. I can never leave
                    thee so long as thy soul seeks spiritual things. Asleep or awake on the Earth,
                    wherever thou art, I also am. There have been times when I have warned thee and
                    thou wouldst not listen, when I have tried to draw thee onward and thou wouldst
                    not come; but now I fear no more thy disobedience, for thy restlessness is past.
                    Come with me; it is permitted thee to see far off the vision of the Last
                    Circle.”
                The glorious figure raised me gently by the hand, and we floated on and on,
                        higher and higher, past little circles
                    which my guide told me were all solar systems, though they looked nothing but
                    slender garlands of fire, so rapidly did they revolve and so swiftly did we pass
                    them. Higher and higher we went, till even to my untiring spirit the way seemed
                    long. Beautiful creatures in human shape, but as delicate as gossamer, passed us
                    every now and then, some in bands of twos and threes, some alone; and the higher
                    we soared the more dazzlingly lovely these inhabitants of the air seemed to
                    be.
                “They are all born of the Great Circle,” my guardian Angel explained to me; “and
                    to them is given the power of communicating high thought and inspiration. Among
                    them are the Spirits of Music, of Poesy, of Prophecy, and of all Art ever known
                    in all worlds. The success of their teaching depends on how much purity and
                    unselfishness there is in the soul to which they whisper their divine
                        messages— messages as brief as telegrams
                    which must be listened to with entire attention and acted upon at once, or the
                    lesson is lost and may never come again.”
                Just then I saw a Shape coming towards me as of a lovely fair-haired child, who
                    seemed to be playing softly on a strange glittering instrument like a broken
                    cloud strung through with sunbeams. Heedless of consequences, I caught at its
                    misty robe in a wild effort to detain it. It obeyed my touch, and turned its
                    deeply luminous eyes first upon me, and then upon the Angel who accompanied my
                    flight.
                “What seekest thou?” it asked in a voice like the murmuring of the wind among the
                    flowers.
                “Music!” I answered. “Sing me thy melodies—fill me with harmonies divine and
                    unreachable—and I will Strive to be worthy of thy teachings!”
                
                The young Shape smiled and drew closer towards me.
                “Thy wish is granted, Sister Spirit!” it replied. “The pity I shall feel for thy
                    fate when thou art again pent in clay, shall be taught thee in minor music—thou
                    shalt possess the secret of unwritten sound, and I will sing to thee and bring
                    thee comfort. On Earth, call but my name—Aeon! and thou shalt behold me. For thy
                    longing voice is known to the Children of Music, and hath oft shaken the
                    vibrating light wherein they dwell. Fear not! As long as thou dost love me, I am
                    thine.” And parting slowly, still smiling, the lovely vision, with its small
                    radiant hands ever wandering among the starry strings of its cloud-like lyre,
                    floated onward.
                Suddenly a clear voice said “Welcome!” and looking up I saw my first friend Azùl.
                    I smiled in glad recognition—I would have spoken—but lo! a wide immensity of
                    blazing glory broke like many-coloured
                    lightning around me—so dazzling, so overpowering, that I instinctively drew back
                    and paused—I felt I could go no further.
                “Here,” said my guardian gently—“here ends thy journey. Would that it were
                    possible, poor Spirit, for thee to pass this boundary! But that may not be—as
                    yet. In the meanwhile thou mayest gaze for a brief space upon the majestic
                    sphere which mortals dream of as Heaven. Behold and see how fair is the
                    incorruptible perfection of God's World!”
                I looked and trembled—I should have sunk yet further backward, had not Azùl and
                    my Angel-guide held me with their light yet forcible clasp. My heart fails me
                    now as I try to write of that tremendous, that sublime scene—the Centre of the
                    Universe—the Cause of all Creation. How unlike Heaven such as we in our
                    ignorance have tried to depict! though it is far better we should have a
                        mistaken idea than none at all. What I
                    beheld was a Circle, so huge that no mortal measurements could compass it—a wide
                    Ring composed of seven colours, rainbow-like, but flashing with perpetual motion
                    and brilliancy, as though a thousand million suns were for ever being woven into
                    it to feed its transcendent lustre. From every part of this Ring darted long,
                    broad shafts of light, some of which stretched out so far that I could not see
                    where they ended; sometimes a bubbling shower of lightning sparks would be flung
                    out on the pure ether, and this would instantly form into circles, small or
                    great, and whirl round and round the enormous girdle of flame from which they
                    had been cast, with the most inconceivable rapidity. But wonderful as the Ring
                    was, it encompassed a Sphere yet more marvellous and dazzling; a great Globe of
                    opal-tinted light, revolving as it were upon its own axis, and ever surrounded
                    by that scintillating, jewel-like wreath of
                    electricity, whose only motion was to shine and burn within itself for ever. I
                    could not bear to look upon the brightness of that magnificent central World—so
                    large that multiplying the size of the sun by a hundred thousand millions, no
                    adequate idea could be formed of its vast proportions. And ever it revolved—and
                    ever the Rainbow Ring around it glittered and cast forth those other rings which
                    I knew now were living solar systems cast forth from that electric band as a
                    volcano casts forth fire and lava. My Angel-guide motioned me to look towards
                    that side of the Ring which was nearest to the position of the Earth. I looked,
                    and perceived that there the shafts of descending light formed themselves as
                    they fell into the shape of a Cross. At this, such sorrow, love, and shame
                    overcame me, that I knew not where to turn. I murmured:
                “Send me back again, dear Angel— send me back to
                    that Star of Sorrow and Error. Let me hasten to make amends there for all my
                    folly—let me try to teach others what now I know. I am unworthy to be here
                    beside thee—I am unfit to look on yonder splendid World—let me return to do
                    penance for my sins and shortcomings; for what am I that God should bless me?
                    and though I should consume myself in labour and suffering, how can I ever hope
                    to deserve the smallest place in that heavenly glory I now partly behold?” And
                    could spirits shed tears, I should have wept with remorse and grief.
                Azùl spoke, softly and tenderly:
                “Now thou dost believe—henceforth thou must love. Love alone can pass yon flaming
                    barrier—love alone can gain for thee eternal bliss. In love and for love were
                    all things made—God loveth His creatures, even so let His creatures love Him,
                    and so shall the twain be drawn together.”
                
                “Listen!” added my Angel-guide. “Thou hast not travelled so far as yet to remain
                    in ignorance. That burning Ring thou seest is the result of the Creator's
                    ever-working Intelligence; from it all the Universe hath sprung. It is
                    exhaustless and perpetually creative; it is pure and perfect Light. The smallest
                    spark of that fiery essence in a mortal frame is sufficient to form a soul or
                    spirit, such as mine, or that of Azùl, or thine, when thou art perfected. The
                    huge world rolling within the Ring is where God dwells. Dare not thou to
                    question His shape, His look, His mien! Know that He is the Supreme Spirit in
                    which all Beauty, all Perfection, all Love, find consummation. His breath is the
                    fire of the Ring; His look, His pleasure, cause the motion of His World and all
                    worlds. There, where He dwells, dwell also all pure souls; there all desires
                    have fulfillment without satiety, and there all
                    loveliness, wisdom or pleasure known in any or all of the other spheres are also
                    known. Speak, Azùl, and tell this wanderer from Earth what she will gain in
                    winning her place in Heaven.”
                Azùl looked tenderly upon me, and said:
                “When thou hast slept the brief sleep of death, when thou art permitted to throw
                    off forever thy garb of clay, and when by thine own ceaseless love and longing
                    thou hast won the right to pass the Great Circle, thou shalt find thyself in a
                    land where the glories of the natural scenery shall overpower thee with
                    joy—scenery that for ever changes into new wonders and greater beauty. Thou
                    shalt hear music such as thou canst not dream of. Thou shalt find friends,
                    beyond all imagination fair and faithful. Thou shalt read and see the history of
                    all the planets, produced for thee in an ever-moving panorama. Thou shalt love
                        and be beloved forever by thine own Twin
                    Soul; wherever that spirit may be now, it must join thee hereafter. The joys of
                    learning, memory, consciousness, sleep, waking, and exercise shall all be thine.
                    Sin, sorrow, pain, disease and death thou shalt know no more. Thou shalt be able
                    to remember happiness, to possess it, and to look forward to it. Thou shalt have
                    full and pleasant occupation without fatigue—thy food and substance shall be
                    light and air. Flowers, rare and imperishable, shall bloom for thee; birds of
                    exquisite form and tender voice shall sing for thee; angels shall be thy
                    companions. Thou shalt have fresh and glad desires to offer to God with every
                    portion of thy existence, and each one shall be granted as soon as asked, for
                    then thou wilt not be able to ask anything that is displeasing to Him. But
                    because it is a joy to wish, thou shalt wish; and because it is a joy to grant,
                    so also will He grant. No delight, small or
                    great, is wanting in that vast sphere; only sorrow is lacking, and satiety and
                    disappointment have no place. Wilt thou seek for admittance there, or wilt thou
                    faint by the way and grow weary?”
                I raised my eyes full of ecstasy and reverence.
                “My mere efforts must count as nothing,” I said; “but if Love can help me, I will
                    love and long for God's World until I die!”
                My guardian Angel pointed to those rays of light I had before noticed, that
                    slanted downwards towards Earth in the form of a cross.
                “That is the path by which thou must travel. Mark it well. All
                    pilgrims from the Sorrowful Star must journey by that road. Woe to them that
                    turn aside to roam 'mid spheres they know not of, to lose themselves in seas of
                    light wherein they cannot steer! Remember my warning! And now, Spirit who art
                        commended to my watchful care, thy brief
                    liberty is ended. Thou hast been lifted up to the outer edge of the Electric
                    Circle; further we dare not take thee. Hast thou aught else to ask before the
                    veil of mortality again enshrouds thee?”
                I answered not, but within myself I formed a wild desire. The Electric Ring
                    flashed fiercely on my uplifted eyes, but I kept them fixed hopefully and
                    lovingly on its intensely deep brilliancy.
                “If love and faith can avail me,” I murmured, “I shall see what I have
                    sought.”
                I was not disappointed. The fiery waves of light parted on either side of the
                    spot where I with my companions rested; and a Figure, majestic, unutterably
                    grand and beautiful, approached me. At the same moment a number of other faces
                    and forms shone hoveringly out of the Ring; one I noticed like an exquisitely
                    lovely woman, with floating hair and clear,
                    earnest, unfathomable eyes. Azùl and the Angel sank reverently down and drooped
                    their radiant heads like flowers in hot sunshine. I alone, daringly, yet with
                    inexpressible affection welling up within me, watched with unshrinking gaze the
                    swift advance of that supreme Figure, upon whose broad brows rested the faint
                    semblance of a Crown of Thorns. A voice penetratingly sweet addressed me:
                “Mortal from the Star I saved from ruin, because thou hast desired Me, I come!
                    Even as thy former unbelief, shall be now thy faith. Because thou lovest Me, I
                    am with thee. For do I not know thee better than the Angels can? Have I not
                    dwelt in thy clay, suffered thy sorrows, wept thy tears, died thy deaths? One
                    with My Father, and yet one with thee, I demand thy love, and so through Me
                    shalt thou attain immortal life.”
                I felt a touch upon me like a scorching flame—a thrill rushed through my
                        being— and then I knew that I was sinking
                    down, down, further and further away. I saw that wondrous Figure standing serene
                    and smiling between the retiring waves of electric radiance. I saw the great
                    inner sphere revolve, and glitter as it rolled, like an enormous diamond
                    encircled with gold and sapphire, and all suddenly the air grew dim and cloudy,
                    and the sensation of falling became more rapid. Azùl was beside me still, and I
                    also perceived the outline of my guardian Angel's form, though that was growing
                    indistinct. I now recalled the request of Heliobas, and spoke:
                “Azùl, tell me what shadow rests upon the life of him to whom I am now
                    returning!”
                Azùl looked at me earnestly, and replied:
                “Thou daring one! Seekest thou to pierce the fate of others? Is it not enough for
                    thee to have heard the voice that maketh the
                    Angels' singing silent, and wouldst thou yet know more?”
                I was full of a strange unhesitating courage, therefore I said fearlessly:
                “He is thy Beloved one, Azùl—thy Twin Soul; and wilt thou let him fall away from
                    thee when a word or sign might save him?”
                “Even as he is my Beloved, so let him not fail to hear my voice,” replied Azùl,
                    with a tinge of melancholy. “For though he has accomplished much, he is as yet
                    but mortal. Thou canst guide him thus far: tell him, when death lies like a gift
                    in his hand, let him withhold it, and remember me. And now, my
                    friend—farewell!”
                I would have spoken again but could not. An oppressed sensation came over me, and
                    I seemed to plunge coldly into a depth of inextricable blackness. I felt cramped
                    for room, and struggled for existence, for motion, for breath. What had happened to me? I wondered indignantly. Was I
                    a fettered prisoner? had I lost the use of my light aërial limbs that had borne
                    me so swiftly through the realms of space? What crushing weight overpowered me?
                    why such want of air and loss of delightful ease? I sighed restlessly and
                    impatiently at the narrow darkness in which I found myself—a sorrowful, deep,
                    shuddering sigh... and woke. That is to say, I languidly opened
                    mortal eyes to find myself once more pent up in mortal frame, though I retained
                    a perfect remembrance and consciousness of everything I had experienced during
                    my spirit-wanderings. Heliobas stood in front of me with outstretched hands, and
                    his eyes were fixed on mine with a mingled expression of anxiety and authority,
                    which changed into a look of relief and gladness as I smiled at him and uttered
                    his name aloud.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                SECRETS OF THE SUN AND MOON.
                “HAVE I been long away?” I asked as I raised myself upright in the chair
                    where I had been resting.
                “I sent you from hence on Thursday morning at noon,” replied Heliobas. “It is now
                    Saturday evening, and within a few minutes of midnight. I was growing alarmed. I
                    have never known anyone stay absent for so long; and you resisted my authority
                    so powerfully, that I began to fear you would never come back at all.”
                
                “I wish I had not been compelled to do so!” I said regretfully.
                He smiled.
                “No doubt you do. It is the general complaint. Will you stand up now and see how
                    you feel?”
                I obeyed. There was still a slight sensation about me as of being cramped for
                    space; but this was passing, and otherwise I felt singularly strong, bright and
                    vigorous. I stretched out my hands in unspeakable gratitude to him, through
                    whose scientific power I had gained my recent experience.
                “I can never thank you enough!” I said earnestly. “I dare say you know something
                    of what I have seen on my journey?”
                “Something, but not all,” he replied. “Of course I know what worlds and systems
                    you saw, but what was said to you, or what special lessons were given you for
                    your comfort, I cannot tell.”
                
                “Then I will describe everything while it is fresh upon me,” I returned. “I feel
                    that I must do so in order that you may understand how glad I am,—how grateful I
                    am to you.”
                I then related the different scenes through which I had passed, omitting no
                    detail. Heliobas listened with profound interest and attention. When I had
                    finished, he said:
                “Yours has been a most wonderful, I may say almost exceptional experience. It
                    proves to me more than ever the omnipotence of Will. Most of those
                    who have been placed by my means in the Uplifted or Electric state of being,
                    have consented to it simply to gratify a sense of curiosity—few therefore have
                    gone beyond the pure ether, where, as in a sea, the planets swim. Cellini, for
                    instance, never went farther than Venus, because in the atmosphere of that
                    planet he met the Spirit that rules and divides his destiny. Zara—she was daring, and reached the outer rim of the
                    Great Circle; but even she never caught a glimpse of the great Central Sphere.
                        You, differing from these, started with a daring aim which you
                    never lost sight of till you had fulfilled it. How true are those words: ‘Ask,
                    and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be
                    opened unto you!’ It is not possible,” and here he sighed, “that amid such
                    wonders you could have remembered me—it were foolish on my part to expect
                    it.”
                “I confess I thought nothing of you,” I said frankly, “till I was approaching
                    Earth again; but then my memory prompted me in time, and I did not forget your
                    request.”
                “And what did you learn?” he asked anxiously.
                “Simply this. Azùl said that I might deliver you this message: When death lies
                    like a gift in your hand, withhold it, and call upon her.”
                
                “As if I did not always guide myself by her promptings!” exclaimed Heliobas, with
                    a tender smile.
                “You might forget to do so for once,” I said.
                “Never!” he replied fervently. “It could not be. But I thank you, my child, for
                    having thought of me—the message you bring shall be impressed strongly on my
                    mind. Now, before you leave me to-night, I must say a few necessary words.”
                He paused, and appeared to consider profoundly for some minutes. At last he
                    spoke.
                “I have selected certain writings for your perusal,” he said. “In them you will
                    find full and clear instructions how to cultivate and educate the electric force
                    within you, and thus continue the work I have begun. With these you will also
                    perceive that I have written out the receipt for the volatile fluid which, if
                    taken in a small quantity every day, will keep
                    you in health, strength, and intellectual vigour, while it will preserve your
                    youth and enjoyment of life to a very much longer extent than that usually
                    experienced by the majority. Understand me well—this liquid of itself cannot put
                    you into an uplifted state of existence; you need human electric
                    force applied strongly to your system to compass this; and as it is dangerous to
                    try the experiment too often—dangerous to the body, I mean—it will be as well,
                    as you have work to do yet in this life, not to attempt it again. But if you
                    drink the fluid every morning of your life, and at the same time obey my written
                    manual as to the cultivation of your own inner force, which is already existent
                    in a large degree, you will attain to certain advantages over the rest of the
                    people you meet, which will give you not only physical, but mental power.”
                He paused a minute or two, and again went on:
                
                “When you have educated your Will to a certain height of electric command, you
                    can at your pleasure see at any time, and see plainly, the spirits who inhabit
                    the air; and also those who, descending to long distances below the Great
                    Circle, come within the range of human electricity, or the attractive matter
                    contained in the Earth's atmosphere. You can converse with them, and they with
                    you. You will also be able, at your desire, to see the parted spirits of dead
                    persons, so long as they linger within Earth's radius, which they seldom do,
                    being always anxious to escape from it as soon as possible. Love may sometimes
                    detain them, or remorse; but even these have to yield to the superior longings
                    which possess them the instant they are set free. You will, in your intercourse
                    with your fellow-mortals, be able to discern their motives quickly and
                    unerringly—you will at once discover where you are loved and where you are disliked; and not all the learning and logic
                    of so-called philosophers shall be able to cloud your instinct. You will have a
                    keener appreciation of good and beautiful things—a delightful sense of humour,
                    and invariable cheerfulness; and whatever you do, unless you make some mistake
                    by your own folly, will carry with it its success. And, what is perhaps a
                    greater privilege, you will find that all who are brought into very close
                    contact with you will be beneficially influenced, or the reverse, exactly as you
                    choose to exert your power. I do not think, after what you have seen, you will
                    ever desire to exert a malign influence, knowing that the Creator of your being
                    is all love and forgiveness. At any rate, the greatest force in the universe,
                    electricity, is yours—that is, it has begun to form itself in you—and you have
                    nothing to do but to encourage its growth, just as you would encourage a taste
                    for music or the fine arts. Now let me give you the writings.”
                
                He unlocked a desk, and took from it two small rolls of parchment, one tied with
                    a gold ribbon, the other secured in a kind of case with a clasp. This last he
                    held up before my eyes, and said:
                
                        ‘
                        “
                    This contains my private instructions to you. Never make a single one
                    of them public. The world is not ready for wisdom, and the secrets of science
                    can only be explained to the few. Therefore keep this parchment safely under
                    lock and key, and never let any eye but your own look upon its contents.”
                I promised, and he handed it to me. Then taking the other roll which was tied
                    with ribbon, he said:
                “Here is written out what I call the Electric Principle of Christianity. This is
                    for your own study and consideration: still, if you ever desire to explain my
                    theory to others, I do not forbid you. But as I told you before, you can never
                    compel belief—the goldfish in a glass bowl will
                    never understand the existence of the ocean. Be satisfied if you can guide
                    yourself by the compass you have found, but do not grieve if you are unable to
                    guide others. You may try, but it will not be surprising if you fail. Nor will
                    it be your fault. The only sorrow that might happen to you in these efforts
                    would be in case you should love some one very dearly, and yet be unable to
                    instil the truth of what you know into that particular soul. You would then have
                    to make a discovery, which is always more or less painful—namely, that your love
                    was misplaced, inasmuch as the nature you had selected as worthy of love had no
                    part with yours; and that separation utter and eternal must therefore occur, if
                    not in this life, then in the future. So I would say beware of loving, lest you
                    should not love rightly—though I believe you will soon be able to discern
                    clearly the spirit that is by fate destined to complete and perfect your own. And now, though I know you are scarcely
                    fatigued enough to sleep, I will say good-night.”
                I took the second roll of parchment from his hand, and opening it a little way, I
                    saw that it was covered with very fine small writing. Then I said:
                “Does Zara know how long I have been absent?”
                “Yes,” replied Heliobas; “and she, like myself, was surprised and anxious. I
                    think she went to bed long ago; but you may look into her room and see if she is
                    awake, before you yourself retire to rest.”
                As he spoke of Zara his eyes grew melancholy and his brow clouded. An instinctive
                    sense of fear came upon me.
                “Is she not well?” I asked.
                “She is perfectly well,” he answered. “Why should you imagine her to be
                    otherwise?”
                “Pardon me,” I said; “I fancied that you looked unhappy when I mentioned
                    her.”
                
                Heliobas made no answer. He stepped to the window, and throwing back the curtain,
                    called me to his side.
                “Look out yonder,” he said in low and earnest tones; “look at the dark blue veil
                    strewn with stars, through which so lately your daring soul pierced its flight!
                    See how the small Moon hangs like a lamp in Heaven, apparently outshining the
                    myriad worlds around her, that are so much vaster and fairer! How deceptive is
                    the human eye!—nearly as deceptive as the human reason. Tell me—why did you not
                    visit the Moon or the Sun, in your recent wanderings?”
                This question caused me some surprise. It was certainly very strange that I had
                    not thought of doing so. Yet on pondering the matter in my mind, I remembered
                    that during my aërial journey, suns and moons had been no more to me than
                    flowers strewn on a meadow. I now regretted that I had not sought to know something of those two fair luminaries which
                    light and warm our earth.
                Heliobas, after watching my face intently, resumed:
                “You cannot guess the reason of your omission? I will tell you. There is nothing
                    to see in either Sun or Moon. They were both inhabited worlds once; but the
                    dwellers in the Sun have ages ago lived their lives and passed to the Central
                    Sphere. The Sun is nothing now but a burning world, burning rapidly, and surely,
                    away; or rather, it is being absorbed back into the Electric Circle from
                        which it originally sprang, to be thrown out again in some new and grander
                        form. And so with all worlds, suns, and systems, for ever and ever!
                    Hundreds of thousands of those brief time-breathings called years may pass
                    before this consummation of the Sun; but its destruction is going on now, or
                    rather its absorption—and we on our cold small star warm ourselves, and are
                    glad, in the light of an empty world on fire!”
                
                I listened with awe and interest.
                “And the Moon?” I asked eagerly.
                “The Moon does not exist. What we see is the reflection or the
                        electrograph of what she was. Atmospherical electricity has
                    imprinted this picture of a long-ago living world upon the heavens, just as
                    Raphael drew his cartoons for the men of to-day to see.”
                “But,” I exclaimed in surprise, “how about the Moon's influence on the tides? and
                    what of eclipses?”
                “Not the Moon, but the electric photograph of a once living but now absorbed
                    world, has certainly an influence on the tides. The sea is impregnated with
                    electricity. Just as the Sun will absorb colours, so the electricity in the sea
                    is repelled or attracted by the electric picture of the Moon in Heaven. Because,
                    as a painting is full of colour, so is that faithful sketch of a vanished
                    sphere, drawn with a pencil of pure light, full of immense 
                        elec-
                        electricity
                     tricity; and to carry the simile
                    further, just as a painting may be said to be formed of various dark and light
                    tints, so the electric portrait of the Moon contains various degrees of electric
                    force—which, coming in contact with the electricity of the Earth's atmosphere,
                    produces different effects on us and on the natural scenes amid which we dwell.
                    As for eclipses—if you slowly pass a round screen between yourself and a blazing
                    fire, you will only see the edges of the fire. In the same way the
                        electrograph of the Moon passes at stated intervals between the
                    Earth and the burning world of the Sun.”
                “Yet surely,” I said, “the telescope has enabled us to see the Moon as a solid
                    globe—we have discerned mountains and valleys on its surface; and then it
                    revolves round us regularly—how do you account for these facts?”
                “The telescope,” returned Heliobas, “is merely an aid to the human eye; and, as I told you before, nothing is so easily
                    deceived as our sense of vision, even when assisted by mechanical appliances.
                    The telescope, like the stereoscope, simply enables us to see the portrait of
                    the Moon more clearly; but all the same, the Moon, as a world, does not exist.
                    Her likeness, taken by electricity, may last some thousands of years, and as
                    long as it lasts it must revolve around us, because everything in the universe
                    moves, and moves in a circle. Besides which, this portrait of the Moon being
                    composed of pure electricity, is attracted and forced to follow the Earth by the
                    compelling influence of the Earth's own electric power. Therefore, till the
                    picture fades, it must attend the Earth like the haunting spectre of a dead joy.
                    You can understand now why we never see what we imagine to be the other
                        side of the Moon. It simply has no other side, except
                    space. Space is the canvas—the Moon is a sketch. How interested we are when a discovery is made of some rare old
                    painting, of which the subject is a perfectly beautiful woman! It bears no
                    name—perhaps no date—but the face that smiles at us is exquisite—the lips yet
                    pout for kisses—the eyes brim over with love! And we admire it tenderly and
                    reverently—we mark it ‘Portrait of a Lady,’ and give it an honoured
                    place among our art collections. With how much more reverence and tenderness
                    ought we to look up at the ‘Portrait of a Fair Last Sphere,’ circling
                    yonder in that dense ever-moving gallery of wonders, where the hurrying throng
                    of spectators are living and dying worlds!”
                I had followed the speaker's words with fascinated attention, but now I said:
                “Dying, Heliobas? There is no death.”
                “True!” he answered, with hesitating slowness. “But there is what we call
                    death—transition—and it is always a parting.”
                “But not for long!” I exclaimed, with all the
                    gladness and eagerness of my lately instructed soul. “As worlds are absorbed
                    into the Electric Circle and again thrown out in new and more glorious forms, so
                    are we absorbed and changed into shapes of perfect beauty, having eyes that are
                    strong and pure enough to look God in the face. The body perishes—but what have
                        we to do with the body—our prison and place of experience,
                    except to rejoice when we shake off its weight for ever!”
                Heliobas smiled gravely.
                “You have learned your high lesson well,” he said. “You speak with the assurance
                    and delight of a spirit satisfied. But when I talk of death, I mean
                    by that word the parting asunder of two souls who love each other; and though
                    such separation may be brief, still it is always a separation. For instance,
                    suppose—” he hesitated; “suppose Zara were to die?”
                “Well, you would soon meet her again,” I
                    answered. “For though you might live many years after her, still you would know
                    in yourself that those years were but minutes in the realms of space—”
                “Minutes that decide our destinies,” he interrupted with solemnity. “And there is
                    always this possibility to contemplate—suppose Zara were to leave me now, how
                    can I be sure that I shall be strong enough to live out my remainder of life
                    purely enough to deserve to meet her again? And if not, then Zara's death would
                    mean utter and almost hopeless separation for ever—though perhaps I might begin
                    over again in some other form, and so reach the goal.”
                He spoke so musingly and seriously that I was surprised, for I had thought him
                    impervious to such a folly as the fear of death.
                “You are melancholy, Heliobas,” I said. “In the first place, Zara is not going to
                    leave you yet; and secondly, if she did, you
                    know your strongest efforts would be brought to bear on your career, in order
                    that no shadow of obstinacy or error might obstruct your path. Why, the very
                    essence of our belief is in the strength of Will-power. What we
                        will to do, especially if it be any act of spiritual progress,
                    we can always accomplish.”
                Heliobas took my hand and pressed it warmly.
                “You are so lately come from the high regions,” he said, “that it warms and
                    invigorates me to hear your encouraging words. Pray do not think me capable of
                    yielding long to the weakness of foreboding. I am, in spite of my advancement in
                    electric science, nothing but a man, and am apt to be hampered oftentimes by my
                    mortal trappings. We have prolonged our conversation further than I intended. I
                    assure you it is better for you to try to sleep, even though, as I know, you
                    feel so wide-awake. Let me give you a soothing
                    draught; it will have the effect of composing your physical nerves into steady
                    working order.”
                He poured something from a small phial into a glass, and handed it to me. I drank
                    it at once, obediently, and with a smile.
                “Good-night, my Master!” I then said. “You need have no fear of your own
                    successful upward progression. For if there were the slightest chance of your
                    falling into fatal error, all those human souls you have benefited would labour
                    and pray for your rescue; and I know now that prayers reach Heaven, so long as
                    they are unselfish. I, though I am one of the least of your disciples, out of
                    the deep gratitude of my heart towards you, will therefore pray unceasingly for
                    you, both here and hereafter.”
                He bent his head.
                “I thank you!” he said simply, “More deeds are wrought by prayer than this
                        world dreams of! That is a true saying. God bless you, my child!
                    Good-night!”
                
                And he opened the door of his study for me to pass out. As I did so, he laid his
                    hand lightly on my head in a sort of unspoken benediction—then he closed his
                    door, and I found myself alone in the great hall. A suspended lamp was burning
                    brightly, and the fountain was gurgling melodiously to itself in a subdued
                    manner, as if it were learning a new song for the morning. I sped across the
                    mosaic pavement with a light eager step, and hurried up the stairs, intent on
                    finding Zara to tell her how happy I felt, and how satisfied I was with my
                    wonderful experience. I reached the door of my bedroom—it was ajar. I softly
                    pushed it farther open, and looked in. A small but exquisitely modelled statue
                    of an “Eros” ornamented one corner. His uplifted torch served as a
                    light which glimmered faintly through a rose-coloured glass, and shed a tender
                    lustre over the room; but especially upon the bed, ornamented with rich
                        Oriental needle-work, where Zara lay fast
                    asleep. How beautiful she looked! Almost as lovely as any one of the radiant
                    spirits I had met in my aërial journey! Her rich dark hair was scattered loosely
                    on the white pillows; her long silky lashes curled softly on the delicately
                    tinted cheeks; her lips, tenderly red, like the colour on budding apple-blossoms
                    in early spring, were slightly parted, showing the glimmer of the small white
                    teeth within; her night-dress was slightly undone, and half displayed and half
                    disguised her neck and daintily rounded bosom, on which the electric jewel she
                    always wore glittered brilliantly as it rose and sank with her regular and quiet
                    breathing. One fair hand lay outside the coverlet, and the reflection from the
                    lamp of the “Eros” flickered on a ring which adorned it, making its central
                    diamond flash like a wandering star.
                I looked long and tenderly on this perfect ideal of a “Sleeping Beauty,” and then thought I would draw closer and see if I
                    could kiss her without awaking her. I advanced a few steps into the room—when
                    suddenly I was stopped. Within about a yard's distance from the bed a
                        Something opposed my approach! I could not move a foot
                    forward—I tried vigorously, but in vain! I could step backward, and that was
                    all. Between me and Zara there seemed to be an invisible barrier, strong, and
                    absolutely impregnable. There was nothing to be seen—nothing but the
                    softly-shaded room—the ever-smiling “Eros,” and the exquisite reposeful figure
                    of my sleeping friend. Two steps, and I could have touched her; but those two
                    steps I was forcibly prevented from making—as forcibly as though a deep ocean
                    had rolled between her and me. I did not stop long to consider this strange
                    occurrence—I felt sure it had something to do with her spiritual life and
                    sympathy, therefore it neither alarmed nor perplexed me. Kissing my hand tenderly towards my darling, who lay so close
                    to me, and who was yet so jealously and invisibly guarded during her slumbers, I
                    softly and reverently withdrew. On reaching my own apartment, I was more than
                    half inclined to sit up reading and studying the parchments Heliobas had given
                    me; but on second thoughts I resolved to lock up these precious manuscripts and
                    go to be bed. I did so, and before preparing to sleep I remembered to kneel down
                    and offer up praise and honour, with a loving and believing heart, to that
                    Supreme Glory, of which I had been marvellously permitted to enjoy a brief but
                    transcendent glimpse. And as I knelt, absorbed and happy, I heard, like a soft
                    echo falling through the silence of my room, a sound like distant music, through
                    which these words floated towards me: “A new commandment give I unto you, that
                    you love one another even as I have loved you!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                SOCIABLE CONVERSE.
                THE next morning Zara came herself to awaken me, looking as fresh and
                    lovely as a summer morning. She embraced me very tenderly and said:
                “I have been talking for more than an hour with Casimir. He has told me
                    everything. What wonders you have seen! And are you not happy, dearest? Are you
                    strong and satisfied?”
                “Perfectly!” I replied. “But, O Zara! what a pity that all the world should not
                    know what we know?
                
                “All have not a desire for knowledge,” replied Zara. “Even in your vision of the
                    garden you possessed, there were only a few who still sought you; for those few
                    you would have done anything, but for the others your best efforts were in
                    vain.”
                “They might not have been always in vain,” I said musingly.
                “No, they might not,” agreed Zara. “That is just the case of the world to-day.
                    While there is life in it, there is also hope. And, talking of the world, let me
                    remind you that you are back in it now, and must therefore be hampered with
                    tiresome trivialities. Two of these are as follows: First, here is a letter for
                    you, which has just come; secondly, breakfast will be ready in twenty
                    minutes!”
                I looked at her smiling face attentively. She was the very embodiment of vigorous
                    physical health and beauty; it seemed like a dream to remember her in the
                        past night, guarded by that invincible
                    barrier, the work of no mortal hand. I uttered nothing, however, of these
                    thoughts, and responding to her evident gaiety of heart, I smiled also.
                “I will be down punctually at the expiration of the twenty minutes,” I said. “I
                    assure you, Zara, I am quite sensible of the claims of earthly existence upon
                    me. For instance, I am very hungry, and I shall enjoy breakfast immensely if you
                    will make the coffee.”
                Zara, who among her other accomplishments had the secret of making coffee to
                    perfection, promised laughingly to make it extra well, and flitted from the
                    room, singing softly as she went a fragment of the Neapolitan
                        Sternello: 
                        “Fior de mortelle
                        Queste manine tue son tanto belle!
                        Fior di limone
                        Ti voglio far morire di passione!
                        Salta! larì—lirà.”
                    
                The letter Zara had brought me was from Mrs. Everard, announcing that she would
                    arrive in Paris that very day, Sunday.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                “By the time you get this note,” so ran her words, “we shall have
                                    landed at the Grand Hotel. Come and see us at once, if you can.
                                    The Colonel is anxious to judge for himself how you are looking.
                                    If you are really recovered sufficiently to leave your medical
                                        Pension, we shall be
                                    delighted to have you with us again. I, in particular, shall be
                                    glad, for it is real lonesome when the Colonel is out, and I do
                                    hate to go shopping by myself. So take pity upon your
                                    affectionate
                                
                                    AMY.”
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Seated at breakfast, I discussed this letter with Heliobas and Zara, and decided
                    that I would call at the Grand Hotel that morning.
                
                “I wish you would come with me, Zara,” I said wistfully.
                To my surprise, she answered:
                “Certainly I will, if you like. But we will attend High Mass at Notre Dame first.
                    There will be plenty of time for the call afterwards.”
                I cordially agreed to this, and Heliobas added with cheerful cordiality:
                “Why not ask your friends to dine here to-morrow? Zara's call will be a
                    sufficient opening formality; and you yourself have been long enough with us now
                    to know that any of your friends will be welcome here. We might have a pleasant
                    little party, especially if you add Mr. and Mrs. Challoner and their daughters
                    to the list. And I will ask Ivan.”
                I glanced at Zara when the Prince's name was uttered, but she made no sign of
                    either offence or indifference.
                “You are very hospitable,” I said, addressing Heliobas; “but I really see no reason why you should throw open your doors to
                    my friends, unless, indeed, you specially desire to please me.”
                “Why, of course I do!” he replied heartily; and Zara looked up and smiled.
                “Then,” I returned, “I will ask them to come. What am I to say about my recovery,
                    which I know is little short of miraculous?”
                “Say,” replied Heliobas, “that you have been cured by electricity. There is
                    nothing surprising in such a statement nowadays. But say nothing of the
                        human electric force employed upon you—no one would believe
                    you, and the effort to persuade unpersuadable people is always a waste of
                    time.”
                An hour after this conversation Zara and I were in the Cathedral of Notre Dame. I
                    attended the service with very different feeling to those I had hitherto
                    experienced during the same ceremony. Formerly my mind had been distracted by
                    harassing doubts and perplexing 
                        contradic-
                        contradictions
                     tions; now everything had a meaning
                    for me—high, and solemn, and sweet. As the incense rose, I thought of those rays
                    of connecting light I had seen, on which prayers travel exactly as sound travels
                    through the telephone. As the grand organ pealed sonorously through the fragrant
                    air, I remembered the ever youthful and gracious Spirits of Music, one of whom,
                    Aeon, had promised to be my friend. Just to try the strength of my own electric
                    force, I whispered the name and looked up. There, on a wide slanting ray of
                    sunlight that fell directly across the altar, was the angelic face I well
                    remembered!—the delicate hands holding the semblance of a harp in air! It was
                    but for an instant I saw it—one brief breathing-space in which its smile mingled
                    with the sunbeams, and then it vanished. But I knew I was not forgotten, and the
                    deep satisfaction of my soul poured itself in unspoken praise on the flood of
                        the “Sanctus! Sanctus!” that just then
                    rolled triumphantly through the aisles of Notre Dame. Zara was absorbed in
                    silent prayer throughout the Mass; but at its conclusion, when we came out of
                    the cathedral, she was unusually gay and elate. She conversed vivaciously with
                    me concerning the social merits and accomplishments of the people we were going
                    to visit; while the brisk walk through the frosty air brightened her eyes and
                    cheeks into warmer lustre, so that on our arrival at the Grand Hotel she looked
                    to my fancy even lovelier than usual.
                Mrs. Everard did not keep us waiting long in the private salon to which we were shown. She fluttered down arrayed in a
                    wonderful “art” gown of terra-cotta and pale blue hues cunningly intermixed, and
                    proceeded to hug me with demonstrative fervour. Then she held me a little
                    distance off, and examined me attentively.
                “Do you know,” she said, “you are simply in
                    lovely condition! I never would have believed it. You are actually as plump and
                    pink as a peach. And you are the same creature that wailed and trembled, and had
                    palpitations and headaches and stupors! Your doctor must he a perfect magician.
                    I think I must consult him, for I am sure I don't look half as well as you
                    do.”
                And indeed she did not. I thought she had a tired, dragged appearance, but I
                    would not say so. I knew her well, and I was perfectly aware that though she was
                    fascinating and elegant in every way, her life was too much engrossed in trifles
                    ever to yield her healthy satisfaction.
                After responding warmly to her affectionate greeting, I said:
                “Amy, you must allow me to introduce the sister of my doctor to you. Madame Zara
                    Casimir—Mrs. Everard.”
                Zara, who had moved aside a little way out of delicacy, to avoid intruding on our meeting, now turned, and with her own
                    radiant smile and exquisite grace, stretched out her little well-gloved
                    hand.
                “I am delighted to know you!” she said, in those sweet penetrating accents of
                    hers which were like music. “Your friend,” here indicating me by a
                    slight yet tender gesture, “has also become mine; but I do not think we shall be
                    jealous, shall we?”
                Mrs. Everard made some attempt at a suitable reply, but she was so utterly lost
                    in admiration of Zara's beauty, that her habitual self-possession almost
                    deserted her. Zara however, had the most perfect tact, and with it the ability
                    of making herself at home anywhere, and we were soon all three talking
                    cheerfully and without constraint. When the Colonel made his appearance, which
                    he did very shortly, he too was “taken off his feet,” as the saying is, by
                    Zara's loveliness, and the same effect was produced on the Challoners who soon afterwards joined us in a body. Mrs.
                    Challoner, in particular, seemed incapable of moving her eyes from the
                    contemplation of my darling's sweet face, and I glowed with pride and pleasure
                    as I noted how greatly she was admired. Miss Effie Challoner alone, who was, by
                    a certain class of young men, considered “doocid pretty, with go in her,”
                    opposed her stock of physical charms to those of Zara, with a certain air of
                    feminine opposition; but she was only able to keep this barrier up for a little
                    time. Zara's winning power of attraction was too much for her, and she, like all
                    present, fell a willing captive to the enticing gentleness, the intellectual
                    superiority, and the sympathetic influence exercised by the evenly balanced
                    temperament and character of the beautiful woman I loved so well. After some
                    desultory and pleasant chat, Zara, in the name of her brother and herself,
                    invited Colonel and Mrs. Everard and the
                    Challoner family to dine at the Hôtel Mars next day—an invitation which was
                    accepted by all with eagerness. I perceived at once that every one of them was
                    anxious to know more of Zara and her surroundings—a curiosity which I could not
                    very well condemn. Mrs. Everard then wanted me to remain with her for the rest
                    of the afternoon; but an instinctive feeling came upon me, that soon perhaps I
                    should have to part from Heliobas and Zara, and all the wonders and delights of
                    their household, in order to resume my own working life—therefore I determined I
                    would drain my present cup of pleasure to the last drop. So I refused Amy's
                    request, pleading as an excuse that I was still under my doctor's authority, and
                    could not indulge in such an excitement as an afternoon in her society without
                    his permission. Zara bore me out in this assertion, and added for me to Mrs.
                    Everard:
                
                “Indeed, I think it will be better for her to remain perfectly quiet with us for
                    a day or two longer; then she will be thoroughly cured, and free to do as she
                    likes.”
                “Well!” said Mrs. Challoner, “I must say she doesn't look as if anything were the
                    matter with her. In fact, I never saw two more happy, healthy-looking girls than
                    you both. What secret do you possess to make yourselves look so bright?”
                “No secret at all,” replied Zara, laughing; “we simply follow the exact laws of
                    health, and they suffice.”
                Colonel Everard, who had been examining me critically and asking me a few
                    questions, here turned to Zara and said:
                “Do you really mean to say, Madame Casimir, that your brother cured this girl by
                    electricity?”
                “Purely so!” she answered earnestly.
                “Then it's the most wonderful recovery I ever saw. Why, at Cannes,
                    she was hollow-eyed, pale, and thin as a willow- wand; now she looks—well, she knows how she is herself—but if she is as spry
                    as she looks, she's in first-rate training!”
                I laughed.
                “I do feel spry, Colonel,” I said. “Life seems to me like summer
                    sunshine.”
                “Brava!” exclaimed Mr. Challoner. He was a staid, rather slow Kentuckian who
                    seldom spoke; and when he did, seemed to find it rather an exertion. “If there's
                    one class of folk I detest more than another, it is those all-possessed people
                    who find life unsuited to their fancies. Nobody asked them to come into
                    it—nobody would miss them if they went out of it. Being in it, it's barely civil
                    to grumble at the Deity who sent them along here. I never do it myself if I can
                    help it.”
                We laughed, and Mrs. Challoner's eyes twinkled.
                “In England, dear, for instance,” she said, with a mischievous glance at her spouse—“in England you never grumbled, did
                    you?”
                Mr. Challoner looked volumes—his visage reddened, and he clenched his fist with
                    ominous vigour.
                “Why, by the Lord!” he said, with even more than his usual deliberate utterance,
                    “in England the liveliest flea that ever gave a triumphal jump in air would find
                    his spirits inclined to droop! I tell you, ma'am,” he continued, addressing
                    himself to Zara, whose merry laugh rang out like a peal of little golden bells
                    at this last remark—“I tell you that when I walked in the streets of London I
                    used to feel as if I were one of a band of criminals. Every person I met looked
                    at me as if the universe were about to be destroyed next minute; and that they
                    had to build another up right away without God to help 'em!”
                “Well, I believe I agree with you,” said Colonel Everard. “The English take life
                    too seriously. In their craze for business
                    they manage to do away with pleasure altogether. They seem afraid to laugh, and
                    they even approach the semblance of a smile with due caution.”
                “I'm free to confess,” added his wife, “that I'm not easily chilled through. But
                    an English ‘at home’ acts upon me like a patent refrigerator—I get regularly
                    frozen to the bone!”
                “Dear me!” laughed Zara; “you give very bad accounts of Shakespeare's land! It
                    must be very sad!”
                “I believe it wasn't always so,” pursued Colonel Everard; “there are legends
                    which speak of it as Merrie England. I dare say it might have been
                    merry once, before it was governed by shopkeepers; but now, you must get away
                    from it if you want to enjoy life. At least such is my opinion. But have you
                    never been in England, Madame Casimir? You speak English perfectly.”
                “Oh, I am a fairly good linguist,” replied
                    Zara, “thanks to my brother. But I have never crossed the Channel.”
                The Misses Challoner looked politely surprised; their father's shrewd face wore
                    an expression of grim contentment.
                “Don't cross it, ma'am,” he said emphatically, “unless you have a special desire
                    to be miserable. If you want to know how Christians love one another, and how to
                    be made limply and uselessly wretched, spend a Sunday in London.”
                “I think I will not try the experiment, Mr. Challoner,” returned Zara gaily.
                    “Life is short, and I prefer to enjoy it.”
                “Say,” interrupted Mrs. Challoner, turning to me at this juncture, “now you are
                    feeling so well, would it be asking you too much to play us a piece of your own
                    improvising?”
                I glanced at the grand piano, which occupied a corner of the salon where we sat, and hesitated. But at a slight
                    nod from Zara, I rose, drew off my gloves, and
                    seated myself at the instrument, which, to my satisfaction, I saw was one of my
                    favourites, a “Pleyell.”. Passing my hands lightly over the keys, I wandered
                    through a few running passages; and as I did so, murmured a brief petition to my
                    aërial friend, Aeon. Scarcely had I done this, when a flood of music seemed to
                    rush to my brain and thence to my fingers, and I played, hardly knowing what I
                    played, but merely absorbed in trying to give utterance to the sounds which were
                    falling softly upon my inner sense of hearing like drops of summer rain on a
                    thirsty soil. I was just aware that I was threading the labyrinth of a minor
                    key, and that the result was a network of delicate and tender melody reminding
                    me of Heinrich Heine's words:
                “Lady, did you not hear the nightingale sing? A beautiful silken voice—a web of
                    happy notes—and my soul was taken in its meshes, and strangled and tortured
                    thereby.”
                
                A few minutes, and the inner voice that conversed with me so sweetly, died away
                    into silence, and at the same time my fingers found their way to the closing
                    chord. As one awaking from a dream, I looked up. The little group of friendly
                    listeners were rapt in the deepest attention; and when I ceased, a murmur of
                    admiration broke from them all, while Zara's eyes glistened with sympathetic
                    tears.
                “How can you do it?” asked Mrs. Challoner in good-natured amazement.
                    “It seems to me impossible to compose like that while seated at the piano, and
                    without taking previous thought!”
                “It is not my doing,” I began; “it seems to come to me from—”
                But I was checked by a look from Zara, that gently warned me not to hastily
                    betray the secret of my spiritual communion with the unseen sources of harmony.
                    So I smiled and said no more. Inwardly I was full of a great rejoicing, for I
                        knew that however well I had played in
                    past days, it was nothing compared to the vigour and ease which were now given
                    to me—a sort of unlocking of the storehouse of music, with freedom to take my
                    choice of all its vast treasures.
                “Well, it's what we call inspiration,” said Mr. Challoner, giving my
                    hand a friendly grasp; “and wherever it comes from, it must be a great happiness
                    to yourself as well as to others.”
                “It is,” I answered earnestly. “I believe few are so perfectly happy in music as
                    I am.”
                Mrs. Everard looked thoughtful.
                “No amount of practice could make me play like that,” she said; “yet
                    I have had two or three masters who were supposed to be first-rate. One of them
                    was a German, who used to clutch his hair like a walking tragedian whenever I
                    played a wrong note. I believe he got up his reputation entirely by that clutch,
                    for he often played wrong notes himself
                    without minding it. But just because he worked himself into a sort of frenzy
                    when others went wrong, everybody praised him, and said he had such an ear and
                    was so sensitive that he must be a great musician. He worried me nearly to death
                    over Bach's ‘Well-tempered Klavier’—all to no purpose, for I can't play a note
                    of it now, and shouldn't care to if I could. I consider Bach a dreadful old
                    bore, though I know it is heresy to say so. Even Beethoven is occasionally
                    prosy, only no one will be courageous enough to admit it. People would rather go
                    to sleep over classical music than confess they don't like it.”
                “Schubert would have been a grander master than Beethoven, if he had only lived
                    long enough,” said Zara; “but I dare say very few will agree with me in such an
                    assertion. Unfortunately most of my opinions differ from those of everyone
                    else.”
                
                “You should say fortunately, madame,” said Colonel Everard, bowing
                    gallantly; “as the circumstance has the happy result of making you perfectly
                    original as well as perfectly charming.”
                Zara received this compliment with her usual sweet equanimity, and we rose to
                    take our leave. As we were passing out, Amy Everard drew me back and crammed
                    into the pocket of my cloak a newspaper.
                “Read it when you are alone,” she whispered, “and you will see what Raffaello
                    Cellini has done with the sketch he made of you.”
                We parted from these pleasant Americans with cordial expressions of goodwill,
                    Zara reminding them of their engagement to visit her at her own home next day,
                    and fixing the dinner-hour for half-past seven.
                On our return to the Hôtel Mars, we found Heliobas in the drawing-room, deep in
                    converse with a Catholic priest—a fine-looking man of venerable and noble features. Zara addressed him as “Father
                    Paul,” and bent humbly before him to receive his blessing, which he gave her
                    with almost parental tenderness. He seemed, from his familiar manner with them,
                    to be a very old friend of the family.
                On my being introduced to him, he greeted me with gentle courtesy, and gave me
                    also his simple unaffected benediction. We all partook of a light luncheon
                    together, after which repast Heliobas and Father Paul withdrew together. Zara
                    looked after their retreating figures with a sort of meditative pathos in her
                    large eyes; and then she told me she had something to finish in her studio—would
                    I excuse her for about an hour? I readily consented, for I myself was desirous
                    of passing a little time in solitude, in order to read the manuscripts Heliobas
                    had given me. “For,” thought I, “if there is anything in them not quite clear to
                    me, he will explain it, and I had better take
                    advantage of his instruction while I can.”
                As Zara and I went upstairs together, we were followed by Leo—a most unusual
                    circumstance, as the faithful animal was generally in attendance on his master.
                    Now, however, he seemed to have something oppressive on his mind, for he kept
                    close to Zara, and his big brown eyes, whenever he raised them to her face, were
                    full of intense melancholy. His tail drooped in a forlorn way, and all the
                    vivacity of his nature seemed to have gone out of him.
                “Leo does not seem well,” I said, patting the dog's beautiful silky coat, an
                    attention to which he responded by a heavy sigh and a wistful gaze approaching
                    to tears. Zara looked at him.
                “Poor Leo!” she murmured caressingly. “Perhaps he feels lonely. Do you want to
                    come with your mistress to-day, old boy? So you shall. Come along—cheer up,
                    Leo!”
                
                And, nodding to me, she passed into her studio, the dog following her. I turned
                    into my own apartment, and then bethought myself of the newspaper Mrs. Everard
                    had thrust into my pocket. It was a Roman journal, and the passage marked for my
                    perusal ran as follows:
                “The picture of the Improvisatrice, painted by
                    our countryman, Signor Raffaello Cellini, has been purchased by Prince N— for
                    the sum of forty thousand francs. The Prince generously permits it to remain on
                    view for a few days longer, so that those who have not yet enjoyed its
                    attraction, have yet time to behold one of the most wonderful pictures of the
                    age. The colouring yet remains a marvel to both students and connoisseurs, and
                    the life-like appearance of the girl's figure, robed in its clinging white
                    draperies ornamented with lilies of the valley, is so strong, that one imagines
                    she will step out of the canvas and confront the bystanders. Signor Cellini must now be undoubtedly acknowledged
                    as one of the greatest geniuses of modern times.”
                I could see no reason, as I perused this, to be sure that I had
                    served as the model for the successful work of art, unless the white dress and
                    the lilies of the valley, which I certainly wore at Cannes, were sufficient
                    authority for forming such a conclusion. Still I felt quite a curiosity about
                    the picture—the more so as I could foresee no possible chance of my ever
                    beholding it. I certainly should not go to Rome on purpose, and in a few days it
                    would be in the possession of Prince N—, a personage whom in all probability I
                    should never know. I put the newspaper carefully by, and then turned my mind to
                    the consideration of quite another subject—namely, the contents of my parchment
                    documents. The first one I opened was that containing the private instructions
                    of Heliobas to myself for the preservation of
                    my own health, and the cultivation of the electric force within me. These were
                    so exceedingly simple, and yet so wonderful in their simplicity, that I was
                    surprised. They were based upon the plainest and most reasonable common-sense
                    arguments—easy enough for a child to understand. Having promised never to make
                    them public, it is impossible for me to give the slightest hint of their
                    purport; but I may say at once, without trespassing the bounds of my pledged
                    word, that if these few concise instructions were known and practised by
                    everyone, doctors would be entirely thrown out of employment, and chemists'
                    shops would no longer cumber the streets. Illness would be very difficult of
                    attainment—though in the event of its occurring each individual would know how
                    to treat him or herself—and life would be prolonged easily and comfortably to
                    more than a hundred years, barring, of course, accidents by sea, rail and road, or by deeds of violence. But it will
                    take many generations before the world is universally
                    self-restrained enough to follow such plain maxims as those laid down for me in
                    the writing of my benefactor, Heliobas—even if it be ever self-restrained at
                    all, which, judging from the present state of society, is much to be doubted.
                    Therefore, no more of the subject, on which, indeed, I am forbidden to
                    speak.
                The other document, called “The Electric Principle of Christianity,” I found so
                    curious and original, suggesting so many new theories concerning that religion
                    which has civilized a great portion of humanity, that, as I am not restrained by
                    any promise on this point, I have resolved to give it here in full. My readers
                    must not be rash enough to jump to the conclusion that I set it forward as an
                    explanation or confession of my own faith; my creed has nothing to do with
                    anyone save myself. I simply copy the
                    manuscript I possess, as the theory of a deeply read and widely intelligent man,
                    such as Heliobas undoubtedly was and is; a man, too,
                    in whose veins runs the blood of the Chaldean kings,—earnest and thoughtful
                    Orientals, who were far wiser in their generation perhaps than we, with all our
                    boasted progress, are in ours. The coincidences which have to do with electrical
                    science will, I believe, be generally admitted to be curious if not convincing.
                    To me, of course, they are only fresh proofs of what I know,
                    because I have seen the great Electric Circle, and know its power
                    (guided as it is by the Central Intelligence within) to be capable of anything,
                    from the sending down of a minute spark of instinct into the heart of a flower,
                    to the perpetual manufacture and re-absorption of solar systems by the million
                    million. And it is a circle that ever widens without end. What more glorious
                    manifestation can there be of the Creator's
                    splendour and wisdom! But as to how this world of ours span round in its own
                    light littleness farther and farther from the Radiant Ring, till its very Sun
                    began to be re-absorbed, and till its Moon disappeared and became a mere
                    picture—till it became of itself like a small blot on the fair scroll of the
                    Universe, while its inhabitants grew to resent all heavenly attraction; and how
                    it was yet thought worth God's patience and tender consideration, just for the
                    sake of a few human souls upon it who still remembered and loved Him, to give it
                    one more chance before it should be drawn back into the Central Circle like a
                    spark within a fire—all this is sufficiently set forth in the words of Heliobas,
                    quoted in the next chapter.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                THE ELECTRIC CREED.
                THE “Electric Principle of Christianity” opened as follows:
                “From all Eternity God, or the Supreme Spirit of Light, existed, and
                    to all Eternity He will continue to exist. This is plainly stated in the New
                    Testament thus: ‘God is a Spirit, and they that worship Him must
                    worship Him in spirit and in truth.’
                “He is a Shape of pure Electric Radiance. Those who may be inclined to doubt this
                    may search the Scriptures on which they pin their faith, more 
                        par-
                        particularly
                     ticularly the Testament, and they
                    will find that all the visions and appearances of the Deity there chronicled
                    were electric in character.
                “As a poet forms poems, or a musician melodies, so God formed by a Thought the
                    Vast Central Sphere in which He dwells, and peopled it with the pure creations
                    of His glorious fancy. And why? Because, being pure Light, He is also pure Love;
                    the power or capacity of Love implies the necessity of Loving; the necessity of
                    loving points to the existence of things to be loved—hence the secret of
                    creation. From the ever-working Intelligence of this Divine Love proceeded the
                    Electric Circle of the Universe, from whence are born all worlds.
                “This truth vaguely dawned upon the ancient poets of Scripture when they wrote:
                    ‘Darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there
                    be light. And there was light.’
                “These words apply solely to the creation or production of our
                        own Earth, and in them we read nothing but a simple manifestation of
                    electricity, consisting in a heating passage of rays from the
                    Central Circle to the planet newly propelled forth from it, which caused that
                    planet to produce and multiply the wonders of the animal, vegetable, and mineral
                    kingdoms which we call Nature.
                “Let us now turn again to the poet-prophets of Scripture: ‘And God said, Let us
                    make man in our image.’ The word ‘our’ here implies an instinctive
                    idea that God was never alone. This idea is correct. Love cannot exist in a
                    chaos; and God by the sheer necessity of His Being has for ever been surrounded
                    by radiant and immortal Spirits emanating from His own creative glory—beings
                        in whom all beauty and all purity are
                    found. In the images, therefore (only the images), of
                    these Children of Light and of Himself, He made Man—that is, He caused the Earth
                    to be inhabited and dominated by beings composed of Earth's
                    component parts, animal, vegetable, and mineral, giving them their superiority
                    by placing within them His ‘likeness’ in the form of an
                        electric flame or germ of spiritual existence
                    combined with its companion working-force of Will-power.
                “Like all flames, this electric spark can either be fanned into a fire or it can
                    be allowed to escape in air—it can never be destroyed. It can be
                    fostered and educated till it becomes a living Spiritual Form of absolute
                    beauty—an immortal creature of thought, memory, emotion, and working
                    intelligence. If, on the contrary it is neglected or forgotten, and its
                    companion Will is drawn by the weight of Earth to work for earthly aims alone,
                    then it escapes and seeks other chances of
                    development in other forms on other planets, while the
                    body it leaves, supported only by physical sustenance drawn from the earth
                        on which it dwells, becomes a mere lump of clay animated by
                        mere animal life solely, full of inward ignorance and corruption and
                    outward incapacity. Of such material are the majority of men composed by
                        their own free-will and choice, because they habitually deaden the
                    voice of conscience and refuse to believe in the existence of a spiritual
                    element within and around them.
                “To resume: The Earth is one of the smallest of planets; and not only this, but,
                    from its position in the Universe, receives a less amount of direct influence
                    from the Electric Circle than other worlds more happily situated. Were men wise
                    enough to accept this fact, they would foster to the utmost the germs of
                    electric sympathy within themselves, in order to form a direct communication, or
                    system of attraction, between this planet and
                    the ever-widening Ring, so that some spiritual benefit might accrue to them
                    thereby. But as the ages roll on, their chances of doing this diminish. The time
                    is swiftly approaching when the invincible Law of Absorption shall extinguish
                    Earth as easily as we blow out the flame of a candle. True, it may be again
                    reproduced, and again thrown out on space; but then it will be in a new and
                    grander form, and will doubtless have more godlike inhabitants.
                “In the meantime—during those brief cycles of centuries which are as a breath in
                    the workings of the Infinite, and which must yet elapse before this world, as we
                    know it, comes to an end—God has taken pity on the few, very few souls dwelling
                    here, pent up in mortal clay, who have blindly tried to reach Him, like plants
                    straining up to the light, and has established a broad stream of sympathetic
                    electric communication with Himself, which all
                    who care to do so may avail themselves of.
                “Here it may be asked: Why should God take pity? Because that Supreme Shape of
                    Light finds a portion of Himself in all pure souls that love Him, and He
                        cannot despise Himself. Also, because He is capable of all the
                    highest emotions known to man, in a far larger and grander degree, besides
                    possessing other sentiments and desires unimaginable to the human mind. It is
                    enough to say that all the attributes that accompany perfect goodness He enjoys;
                    therefore He can feel compassion, tenderness, forgiveness, patience—all or any
                    of the emotions that produce pure, unselfish pleasure.
                “Granting Him, therefore, these attributes (and it is both blasphemous and
                    unreasonable to deny Him those virtues which distinguish the best of
                        men), it is easily understood how He, the All-Fair Beneficent Ruler
                    of the Central Sphere, perceiving the long
                    distance to which the Earth was propelled, like a ball flung too far out, from
                    the Glory of His Electric Ring, saw also that the creatures he had made in His
                    image were in danger of crushing that image completely out, and with it all
                    remembrance of Him, in the fatal attention they gave to their merely earthly
                    surroundings, lacking, as they did, and not possessing sufficient energy to
                    seek, electric attraction. In brief, this Earth and God's World were like
                    America and Europe before the Atlantic Cable was laid. Now the messages of
                    goodwill flash under the waves, heedless of the storms. So also God's Cable is
                    laid between us and His Heaven in the person of Christ.
                “For ages (always remembering that our ages are with God a moment) the idea of
                        worship was in the mind of man. With this idea came also the
                    sentiment of propitiation. The untamed savage has from time
                    immemorial instinctively felt the necessity of
                    looking up to a Being greater than himself, and also of seeking a reconciliation
                    with that Being for some fault or loss in himself which he is aware of, yet
                    cannot explain. This double instinct—worship and propitiation—is the key-note of
                    all the creeds of the world, and may be called God's first thought of the cable
                    to be hereafter laid—a lightning-thought which He instilled into the human race
                    to prepare it, as one might test a telegraph-wire from house to house, before
                    stretching it across a continent.
                “All religions, as known to us, are mere types of Christianity. It is a notable
                    fact that some of the oldest and most learned races in the world, such as the
                    Armenians and Chaldeans, were the first to be convinced of the truth of Christ's
                    visitation. Buddhism, of which there are so many million followers, is itself a
                    type of Christ's teaching; only it lacks the supernatural element. Buddha died a
                    hermit at the age of eighty, as any wise and
                    ascetic man might do to-day. The death and resurrection of Christ were widely
                    different. Anyone can be a Buddha again; anyone can not be a
                    Christ. That there are stated to be more followers of Buddhism than of
                    Christianity is no proof of any efficacy in the former or lack of power in the
                    latter. Buddhists help to swell that very large class of persons who prefer a
                    flattering picture to a plain original, or who, sheep-like by nature, finding
                    themselves all together in one meadow, are too lazy, as well as too indifferent,
                    to seek pastures fresher and fairer.
                “Through the divine influence of an Electric Thought, then, the world
                    unconsciously grew to expect something—they knew not what. The old
                    creeds of the world, like sunflowers, turned towards that unknown Sun; the
                    poets, prophets, seers, all spoke of some approaching consolation and glory; and
                    to this day the fated Jews expect it,
                    unwilling to receive as their Messiah the Divine Martyr they slew, though their
                    own Scriptures testify to His identity.
                “Christ came born of a Virgin; that is, a radiant angel from God's Sphere was in
                    the first place sent down to Earth to wear the form of Mary of Bethlehem, in
                    Judea. Within that vessel of absolute purity God placed an Emanation of His own
                    radiance—no germ or small flame such as is given to us in our bodies to
                    cultivate and foster, but a complete immortal Spirit, a portion of God Himself,
                    wise, sinless, and strong. This Spirit, pent up in clay, was born as a helpless
                    babe, grew up as a man—as man taught, comforted, was slain and buried; but as a
                    Spirit rose again and returned in peace to Heaven, His mission done.
                “It was necessary, in order to establish what has been called an electric
                    communication between God's Sphere and this Earth, that an actual immortal,
                        untainted Spirit in the person of Christ
                    should walk this world, sharing with men sufferings, difficulties, danger, and
                    death. Why? In order that we might first completely confide in and trust Him,
                    afterwards realizing His spiritual strength and glory by His resurrection. And
                    here may be noted the main difference between the Electric Theory of
                    Christianity and other theories. Christ did not die because God needed a
                        sacrifice. The idea of sacrifice is a relic of heathen barbarism; God
                    is too infinitely loving to desire the sacrifice of the smallest flower. He is
                    too patient to be ever wrathful; and barbaric ignorance confronts us again in
                    the notion that He should need to be appeased. And the fancy that He should
                    desire Himself or part of Himself to become a sacrifice to Himself has arisen
                    out of the absurd and conflicting opinions of erring humanity, wherein right and
                    wrong are so jumbled together that is difficult to distinguish one from the
                        other. Christ's death was not a sacrifice;
                    it was simply a means of confidence and communion with the Creator. A sinless
                    Spirit suffered to show us how to suffer; lived on earth to show us how to live;
                    prayed to show us how to pray; died to show us how to die; rose again to impress
                    strongly upon us that there was in truth a life beyond this one, for which He
                    strove to prepare our souls. Finally, by His re-ascension into Heaven He
                    established that much-needed electric communication between us and the Central
                    Sphere.
                “It can be proved from the statements of the New Testament that in Christ was an
                    Embodied Electric Spirit. From first to last His career was attended by
                        electric phenomena, of which eight examples are here quoted;
                    and earnest students of the matter can find many others if they choose to
                    examine for themselves.
                “1. The appearance of the Star and the Vision of Angels on the night of His
                        birth. The Chaldeans saw His ‘star in the
                    east,’ and they came to worship Him. The Chaldeans were always a learned people,
                    and electricity was an advanced science with them. They at once recognized the
                    star to be no new planet, but simply a star-shaped flame flitting through space.
                    They knew what this meant. Observe, too, that they had no doubts upon the point;
                    they came ‘to worship Him,’ and provided themselves with gifts to
                    offer to this radiant Guest, the offspring of pure Light. The vision of the
                    angels appearing to the shepherds was simply a joyous band of the Singing
                    Children of the Electric Ring, who out of pure interest and pleasure floated in
                    sight of Earth, drawn thither partly by the already strong attractive influence
                    of the Radiance that was imprisoned there in the form of the Babe of
                    Bethlehem.
                “2. When Christ was baptized by John the Baptist, ‘the heavens
                        opened.’
                
                “3. The sympathetic influence of Christ was so powerful, that when He selected
                    His disciples, He had but to speak to them, and at the sound of His voice,
                    though they were engaged in other business, ‘they left all and followed
                        Him.’
                “4. Christ's body was charged with electricity. Thus He was easily able to heal
                    sick and diseased persons by a touch or a look. The woman who caught at His
                    garment in the crowd was cured of her long-standing ailment; and we see that
                    Christ was aware of His own electric force by the words He used on that
                    occasion: ‘Who touched Me? For I feel that some virtue is gone out of
                        Me’—which is the exact feeling that a physical electrician
                    experiences at this day after employing his powers on a subject. The raising of
                    Jairus's daughter, of the widow's son at Nain, and of Lazarus, were all
                    accomplished by the same means.
                “5. The walking on the sea was a purely
                    electric effort, and can be accomplished now by anyone who has
                    cultivated sufficient inner force. The sea being full of electric particles will
                    support anybody sufficiently and similarly charged—the two currents combining to
                    procure the necessary equilibrium. Peter, who was able to walk a little way,
                    lost his power directly his will became vanquished by fear—because the sentiment
                    of fear disperses electricity, and, being a purely human emotion,
                    does away with spiritual strength for the time.
                “6. The Death of Christ was attended by electric manifestations—by the darkness
                    over the land during the Crucifixion; the tearing of the temple veil in twain;
                    and the earthquake which finally ensued.
                “7. The Resurrection was a most powerful display of electric force. It will be
                    remembered that the angel who was found sitting at the entrance of the empty
                    sepulchre ‘had a countenance like 
                        
                            light-
                        
                        lightning
                    
                    ning,’ i.e., like electric flame. It must also be
                    called to mind how the risen Christ addressed Mary Magdalene: ‘Touch Me
                        not, for I am but newly risen!’ Why should she not have touched Him?
                    Simply because His strength then was the strength of concentrated in-rushing
                    currents of electricity; and to touch Him at that moment would have been for
                    Magdalene instant death by lightning. This effect of embodied electric force has
                    been shadowed forth in the Greek legends of Apollo, whose glory consumed at a
                    breath the mortal who dared to look upon him.
                “8. The descent of the Holy Ghost, by which term is meant an ever-flowing current
                    of the inspired working Intelligence of the Creator, was purely electric in
                    character: ‘Suddenly there came a sound from Heaven as of a rushing mighty wind,
                    and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto
                    them cloven tongues like as of fire, and sat upon each of them.’ It may here be noted that the
                    natural electric flame is dual or ‘cloven’ in shape.
                “Let us now take the Creed as accepted today by the Christian Church, and see how
                    thoroughly it harmonizes with the discoveries of spiritual electricity. ‘I
                    believe in one God, the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven and Earth, and of all
                    things visible and invisible.’ This is a brief and simple
                    description of the Creator as He exists—a Supreme Centre of Light, out of whom
                        must spring all life, all love, all wisdom.
                “‘And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God, born of the Father
                    before all ages.’ This means that the only absolute Emanation of His own
                        personal Radiance that ever wore such mean garb as our clay was
                    found in Christ—who, as part of God, certainly existed ‘before all
                        ages.’ For as the Creed itself says, He was ‘God of God, LIGHT OF LIGHT.’ Then we go on through the
                    circumstances of Christ's birth, life, death, and resurrection, and our
                    profession of faith brings us to ‘I believe in the Holy Ghost, the Lord and
                    giver of Life, who proceedeth from the Father and the Son,’ etc. This, as
                    already stated, means that we believe that since Christ ascended into Heaven,
                    our electric communication with the Creator has been established, and an
                    ever-flowing current of divine inspiration is turned beneficially in the
                    direction of our Earth, ‘proceedeth from the Father and the Son.’ We admit in
                    the Creed that this inspiration manifested itself before Christ came and
                        ‘spake by the prophets;’ but, as before stated, this only
                    happened at rare and difficult intervals, while now Christ Himself speaks
                    through those who most strongly adhere to His teachings.
                “It may here be mentioned that few seem to grasp the fact of the special
                        message to women intended to be conveyed in the person of the Virgin Mary. She was actually one of
                    the radiant Spirits of the Central Sphere, imprisoned by God's will in woman's
                    form. After the birth of Christ she was still kept on earth, to follow His
                    career to the end. There was a secret understanding between Himself and her. As,
                    for instance, when she found Him among the doctors of the law, she for one
                    moment suffered her humanity to get the better of her in anxious inquiries; and
                    His reply, ‘Why sought ye Me? Wist ye not that I must be about My Father's
                    business?’ was a sort of reminder to her, which she at once accepted. Again, at
                    the marriage feast at Cana of Galilee, when Christ turned the water into wine,
                    He said to His mother, ‘Woman, what have I to do with thee?’ which
                    meant simply: What have I to do with thee as woman merely?—which
                    was another reminder to her of her spiritual origin, causing her at once to
                    address the servants who stood by as follows:
                    ‘Whatsoever He saith unto you, do it.’ And why, it may be asked, if Mary was
                    really an imprisoned immortal Spirit, sinless and joyous, should she be forced
                    to suffer all the weaknesses, sorrows, and anxieties of any ordinary woman and
                    mother? Simply as an example to women who are the mothers of the
                    human race; and who, being thus laid under a heavy responsibility, need
                    sympathetic guidance. Mary's life teaches women that the virtues they need
                    are—obedience, purity, meekness, patience, long-suffering, modesty, self-denial,
                    and endurance. She loved to hold a secondary position; she placed herself in
                    willing subjection to Joseph—a man of austere and simple life, advanced in
                    years, and weighted with the cares of a family by a previous marriage—who wedded
                    her by an influence which compelled him to become her protector in
                    the eyes of the world. Out of these facts, simple as they are, can be drawn the
                    secret of happiness for women— a secret and a
                    lesson that, if learned by heart, would bring them and those they love out of
                    storm and bewilderment into peace and safety.
                “For those who have once become aware of the existence of the Central
                        Sphere and of the Electric Ring surrounding it, and who are able to realize
                        to the full the gigantic as well as minute work performed by the electric
                        waves around us and within us, there can no longer be any doubt as to
                    all the facts of Christianity, as none of them, viewed by the electric
                        theory, are otherwise than in accordance with the Creator's love and
                    sympathy with even the smallest portion of His creation.
                “Why then, if Christianity be a Divine Truth, are not all people Christians? As
                    well ask, if music and poetry are good things, why all men are not poets and
                    musicians. Art seeks art; in like manner God seeks God—that is, He seeks
                    portions of His own essence among His creatures. Christ Himself said, ‘Many are called, but few are chosen;’ and it stands to
                    reason that very few souls will succeed in becoming pure enough to enter the
                    Central Sphere without hindrance. Many, on leaving Earth, will be detained in
                    the Purgatory of Air, where thousands of spirits work for ages, watching over
                    others, helping and warning others, and in this unselfish labour succeed in
                    raising themselves, little by little, higher and ever higher, till they at last
                    reach the longed-for goal. It must also be remembered that not only from Earth
                    but from all worlds, released souls seek to attain final happiness
                    in the Central Sphere where God is; so that, however great the number of those
                    that are permitted to proceed thither from this little planet, they can only
                    form, as it were, one drop in a mighty ocean.
                “It has been asked whether the Electric Theory of Christianity includes the
                    doctrine of Hell, or a place of perpetual punishment. Eternal Punishment is merely a form of speech for
                    what is really Eternal Retrogression. For as there is a Forward, so there must
                    be a Backward. The electric germ of the Soul—delicate, fiery, and imperishable
                    as it is—can be forced by its companion Will to take refuge in a lower form of
                    material existence, dependent on the body it first inhabits. For instance, a man
                    who is obstinate in pursuing active evil can so retrograde the
                    progress of any spiritual life within him, that it shall lack the power to
                    escape, as it might do, from merely lymphatic and listless temperaments, to seek
                    some other chance of development, but shall sink into the form of quadrupeds,
                    birds, and other creatures dominated by purely physical needs. But there is one
                    thing it can never escape—Memory. And in that faculty is
                    constituted Hell. So that if a man, by choice, forces his soul
                        downward to inhabit hereafter the bodies of dogs, horses, and
                    other like animals, he should know that he
                    does so at the cost of everything except Remembrance. Eternal Retrogression
                    means that the hopelessly tainted electric germ recoils further and further from
                    the Pure Centre whence it sprang, always bearing within itself the
                    knowledge of what it was once and what it might have
                        been. There is a pathetic meaning in the eyes of a dog or a seal; in
                    the melancholy, patient gaze of the oxen toiling at the plough; there is an
                    unuttered warning in the silent faces of flowers; there is more tenderness of
                    regret in the voice of the nightingale than love; and in the wild upward soaring
                    of the lark, with its throat full of passionate, shouting prayer, there is
                    shadowed forth the yearning hope that dies away in despair as the bird sinks to
                    earth again, his instincts not half satisfied. There is no greater torture than
                    to be compelled to remember, in suffering, joys and glorious opportunities gone
                    forever.
                “Regarding the Electric Theory of Religion, it
                    is curious to observe how the truth of it has again and again been dimly
                    shadowed forth in the prophecies of Art, Science, and Poesy. The old painters
                    who depicted a halo of light round the head of their Virgins and Saints did so
                    out of a correct impulse which they did not hesitate to obey.* The astronomers who, after years of
                    profound study, have been enabled to measure the flames of the burning sun, and
                    to find out that these are from two to four thousand miles high, are nearly
                    arrived at the conclusion that it is a world in a state of conflagration, in
                    which they will be perfectly right. Those who hold that this Earth of ours was
                    once self-luminous are also right; for it was indeed so when first projected
                    from the Electric Ring. The compilers or inventors of the ‘Arabian Nights’ also
                    hit upon a truth when they * An impulse which led them vaguely to foresee, though not
                        to explain, the principle of spiritual life. described human beings as forced through evil
                    influences to take forms of lower animals—a truth just explained in the Law of
                    Retrogression. All art, all prophecy, all poesy, should therefore be accepted
                    eagerly and studied earnestly, for in them we find electric
                        inspiration, out of which we are able to draw lessons for our
                    guidance hereafter. The great point that scientists and artists have hitherto
                    failed to discover is the existence of the Central Sphere and its surrounding
                    Electric Circle. Once realize these two great facts, and all the wonders and
                    mysteries of the Universe are perfectly easy of comprehension.
                “In conclusion, I offer no opinion as to which is Christ's Church, or the
                    Fountainhead of Spirituality in the world. In all Churches errors have intruded
                    through unworthy and hypocritical members. In a crowded congregation of
                    worshippers there may perhaps be only one or two who are free from self-interest
                    and personal vanity. In Sectarianism, for
                    instance, there is no shred of Christianity. Lovers of God and followers of
                    Christ must, in the first place, have perfect Unity; and the bond uniting them
                    must be an electric one of love and faith. No true Christian should
                    be able to hate, despise, or envy the other. Were I called upon to select among
                    the Churches, I should choose that which has most electricity
                    working within it, and which is able to believe in a positive electrical
                    communication between Christ and herself taking place daily on her altars—a
                    Church which holds, as it were, the other end of the telegraphic ray between
                    Earth and the Central Sphere, and which is, therefore, able to exist among the
                    storms of modern opinions, affording refuge and consolation to the few
                    determined travellers who are bound onward and upward. I shall not name the
                    Church I mean, because it is the duty of everyone to examine and find it out for
                    himself or herself. And even though this Church instinctively works in the right direction, it is full of errors
                    introduced by ignorant and unworthy members—errors which must be carefully
                    examined and cast aside by degrees. But, as I said before, it is the only Church
                    which has the Principles of Electricity within it, and is therefore destined to
                    live, because electricity is life.
                “Now I beseech the reader of this manuscript to which I, Heliobas, append my hand
                    and seal, to remember and realize earnestly the following invincible facts:
                    first, that God and His Christ exist; secondly, that while the
                    little paltry affairs of our temporal state are being built up as crazily as a
                    child's house of cards, the huge Central Sphere revolves, and the Electric Ring,
                    strong and indestructible, is ever at its work of production and re-absorption;
                    thirdly, that every thought and word of every habitant on every
                        planet is reflected in lightning language before the Creator's eyes
                    as easily as we receive telegrams; fourthly,
                    that this world is the only spot in the Universe where His
                    existence is actually questioned and doubted. And the general spread of modern
                    positivism, materialism, and atheism is one of the most terrific and meaning
                    signs of the times. The work of separating the wheat from the chaff is
                    beginning. Those who love and believe in God and Spiritual Beauty are about to
                    be placed on one side; the millions who worship Self are drawing together in
                    vast opposing ranks on the other; and the moment approaches which is prophesied
                    to be ‘as the lightning that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven, and
                    shineth even to the other part.’ In other words, the fiery whirlpool of the Ring
                    is nearly ready to absorb our planet in its vortex; and out of all who dwell
                    upon its surface, how many shall reach the glorious Central World of God? Of two
                    men working in the same field, shall it not be as Christ foretold—‘the one shall
                    be taken, and the other left?’
                
                “Friend, Pupil, Reader! Whoever thou art, take heed and foster thine own soul!
                    For know that nothing can hinder the Immortal Germ within us from taking the
                    form imposed upon by our Wills. Through Love and Faith it can
                    become an Angel, and perform wonders even while in its habitation of clay;
                    through indifference and apathy, it can desert us altogether and for ever;
                    through mockery blasphemous disbelief, it can sink into even a lower form than
                    that of a snake or toad. In our own unfettered hand lies our eternal destiny.
                    Wonderful and terrible responsibility! Who shall dare to say we have no need of
                    prayer?”
                This document was signed “Casimir Heliobas,” and bore a seal on which the
                    impression seemed to consist of two Arabic or Sanskrit words, which I could not
                    understand. I put it carefully away with its companion MS. under lock and key,
                    and while I was yet musing earnestly on its
                    contents, Zara came into my room. She had finished her task in the studio, she
                    said, and she now proposed a drive in the Bois as an agreeable way of passing
                    the rest of the afternoon.
                “I want to be as long as possible in your company,” she added, with a caressing
                    sweetness in her manner; “for now your friends have come to Paris, I expect you
                    will soon be leaving us, so I must have as much of you as I can.”
                My heart sank at the thought of parting from her and I looked wistfully at her
                    lovely face. Leo had followed her in from the studio, and seemed still very
                    melancholy.
                “We shall always be good friends, Zara dearest,” I said, “shall we not? Close,
                    fond friends, like sisters?”
                “Sisters are not always fond of each other,” remarked Zara, half gaily. “And you
                    know ‘there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother’!”
                
                “And what friend is that in your case?” I asked, half jestingly,
                    half curiously.
                “Death!” she replied with a strange smile, in which there was both pathos and
                    triumph.
                I started at her unexpected reply, and a kind of foreboding chilled my blood. I
                    endeavoured however, to speak cheerfully as I said:
                “Why, of course, death sticks more closely to us than any friend or relative. But
                    you look fitter to receive the embraces of life than of death, Zara.”
                “They are both one and the same thing,” she answered; “or rather, the one leads
                    to the other. But do not let us begin to philosophize. Put on your things and
                    come. The carriage is waiting.”
                I readily obeyed her, and we enjoyed an exhilarating drive together. The rest of
                    the day passed with us all very pleasantly, and our conversation had principally
                    to do with the progress of art and literature in many lands, and maintained itself equably on the level of mundane affairs.
                    Among other things, we spoke of the Spanish violinist Sarasate, and I amused
                    Heliobas by quoting to him some of the criticisms of the London daily papers on
                    this great artist, such as, “He plays pieces which, though adapted to show
                        his wonderful skill, are the veriest clap-trap;“ “He lacks breadth and
                        colour;” “A true type of the artist virtuoso,” etc., etc.
                “Half these people do not know in the least what they mean by ‘breadth and
                        colour’ or ‘virtuosity,’” said Heliobas, with a smile. “They
                    think emotion, passion, all true sentiment combined with extraordinary
                        technique, must be ‘clap-trap.’ Now the Continent of Europe
                    acknowledges Pablo de Sarasate as the first violinist living, and London would
                    not be London unless it could thrust an obtuse opposing opinion in the face of
                    the Continent. England is the last country in the world to accept anything new. Its people are tired
                    and blasé; like highly trained circus-horses,
                    they want to trot or gallop always in the old grooves. It will always be so.
                    Sarasate is like a brilliant meteor streaming across their narrow bit of the
                    heaven of music; they stare, gape, and think it is an unnatural phenomenon—a
                    ‘virtuosity’ in the way of meteors, which they are afraid to accept lest it set
                    them on fire. What would you? The meteor shines and burns; it is always a
                    meteor!”
                So, talking lightly, and gliding from subject to subject, the hours wore away,
                    and we at last separated for the night.
                I shall always be glad to remember how tenderly Zara kissed me and wished me good
                    repose; and I recall now, with mingled pain, wonder, and gratitude, how
                    perfectly calm and contented I felt as, after my prayers, I sank to sleep,
                    unwarned, and therefore happily unconscious, of what awaited me on the
                    morrow.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                DEATH BY LIGHTNING.
                THE morning of the next day dawned rather gloomily. A yellowish fog
                    obscured the air, and there was a closeness and sultriness in the atmosphere
                    that was strange for that wintry season. I had slept well, and rose with the
                    general sense of ease and refreshment that I always experienced since I had been
                    under the treatment of Heliobas. Those whose unhappy physical condition causes
                    them to awake from uneasy slumber feeling almost more fatigued than when they
                    retired to rest, can scarcely have any idea of
                    the happiness it engenders to open untired, glad eyes with the morning light; to
                    feel the very air a nourishment; to stand with lithe, rested limbs in the bath
                    of cool, pure water, finding that limpid element obediently adding its quota to
                    the vigour of perfect health; to tingle from head to foot with the warm current
                    of life running briskly through the veins, making the heart merry, the brain
                    clear, and all the powers of body and mind in active working condition. This is
                    indeed most absolute enjoyment. Add to it the knowledge of the existence of
                    one's own inner Immortal Spirit—the beautiful germ of Light in the fostering of
                    which no labour is ever taken in vain—the living, wondrous thing that is
                    destined to watch an eternity of worlds bloom and fade to bloom again, like
                    flowers, while itself, superior to them all, shall become ever more strong and
                    radiant—with these surroundings and prospects, who shall say life is not worth
                    living?
                
                Dear Life! sweet Moment! gracious Opportunity! brief Journey so well worth the
                    taking! gentle Exile so well worth enduring!—thy bitterest sorrows are but
                    blessings in disguise; thy sharpest pains are brought upon us by ourselves, and
                    even then are turned to warnings for our guidance; while above us, through us,
                    and around us radiates the Supreme Love, unalterably tender!
                These thoughts, and others like them, all more or less inducive to cheerfulness,
                    occupied me till I had finished dressing. Melancholy was now no part of my
                    nature, otherwise I might have been depressed by the appearance of the weather
                    and the murkiness of the air. But since I learned the simple secrets of physical
                    electricity, atmospheric influences have had no effect upon the equable poise of
                    my temperament—a fact for which I cannot be too grateful, seeing how many of my
                    fellow-creatures permit themselves to be affected by changes in the wind, intense heat, intense cold, or other
                    things of the like character.
                I went down to breakfast, singing softly on my way, and I found Zara already
                    seated at the head of her table, while Heliobas was occupied in reading and
                    sorting a pile of letters that lay beside his plate. Both greeted me with their
                    usual warmth and heartiness.
                During the repast, however, the brother and sister were strangely silent, and
                    once or twice I fancied that Zara's eyes filled with tears, though she smiled
                    again so quickly and radiantly that I felt I was mistaken.
                A piece of behaviour on the part of Leo, too, filled me with dismay. He had been
                    lying quietly at his master's feet for some time, when he suddenly arose, sat
                    upright, and, lifting his nose in air uttered a most prolonged and desolate
                    howl. Anything more thoroughly heart-broken and despairing than that cry I have
                    never heard. After he had concluded it, the poor animal seemed ashamed of what he had done, and, creeping
                    meekly along, with drooping head and tail, he kissed his master's hand, then
                    mine, and lastly Zara's. Finally, he went into a distant corner and lay down
                    again, as if his feelings were altogether too much for him.
                “Is he ill?” I asked pityingly.
                “I think not,” replied Heliobas. “The weather is peculiar to-day—close, and
                    almost thunderous; dogs are very susceptible to such changes.”
                At that moment the page entered bearing a silver salver, on which lay a letter,
                    which he handed to his master and immediately retired.
                Heliobas opened and read it.
                “Ivan regrets he cannot dine with us to-day,” he said, glancing at his sister;
                    “he is otherwise engaged. He says, however, that he hopes to have the pleasure
                    of looking in during the latter part of the evening.”
                
                Zara inclined her head gently, and made no other reply.
                A few seconds afterward we rose from the table, and Zara, linking her arm through
                    mine, said:
                “I want to have a talk with you while we can be alone. Come to my room.”
                We went upstairs together, followed by the wise yet doleful Leo, who seemed
                    determined not to let his mistress out of his sight. When we arrived at our
                    destination, Zara pushed me gently into an easy-chair, and seated herself in
                    another one opposite.
                “I am going to ask a favour of you,” she began; “because I know you will do
                    anything to please me or Casimir. Is it not so?”
                I assured her she might rely upon my observing with the truest fidelity any
                    request of hers, small or great.
                She thanked me and resumed:
                “You know I have been working secretly in my studio for some time past. I have been occupied in the execution of two
                    designs—one is finished, and is intended as a gift to Casimir. The other”—she
                    hesitated—“is incomplete. It is the colossal figure which was veiled when you
                    first came in to see my little statue of ‘Evening.’ I made an
                    attempt beyond my powers—in short, I cannot carry out the idea to my
                    satisfaction. Now, dear, pay great attention to what I say. I have reason to
                    believe that I shall be compelled to take a sudden journey—promise me that when
                    I am gone you will see that unfinished statue completely destroyed—demolished
                    into powder.”
                I could not answer her for a minute or two, I was so surprised by her words.
                “Going on a journey, Zara?” I said. “Well, if you are, I suppose you will soon
                    return home again; and why should your statue be destroyed in the meantime? You
                    may yet be able to bring it to final perfection.”
                
                Zara shook her bead and smiled half sadly.
                “I told you it was a favour I had to ask of you,” she said; “and now you are
                    unwilling to grant it.”
                “I am not unwilling—believe me, dearest, I would do anything to please you,” I
                    assured her; “but it seems so strange to me that you should wish the result of
                    your labour destroyed, simply because you are going on a journey.”
                “Strange as it seems, I desire it most earnestly,” said Zara; “otherwise—but if
                    you will not see it done for me, I must preside at the work of demolition
                    myself, though I frankly confess it would be most painful to me.”
                I interrupted her.
                “Say no more Zara!” I exclaimed; “I will do as you wish. When you are gone, you
                    say—”
                “When I am gone,” repeated Zara firmly, “and before you yourself leave this house, you will see that particular statue
                    destroyed. You will thus do me a very great service.”
                “Well,” I said, “and when are you coming back again? Before I leave Paris?”
                “I hope so—I think so,” she replied evasively; “at any rate, we shall meet again
                    soon.”
                “Where are you going?” I asked.
                She smiled. Such a lovely, glad, and triumphant smile!
                “You will know my destination before to-night has passed away,” she answered.
                “In the meanwhile I have your promise?”
                “Most certainly.”
                She kissed me, and as she did so, a lurid flash caught my eyes and almost dazzled
                    them. It was a gleam of fiery lustre from the electric jewel she wore.
                The day went on its usual course, and the weather seemed to grow murkier every hour. The air was almost sultry, and when
                    during the afternoon I went into the conservatory to gather some of the glorious
                    Marèchal Niel roses that grew there in such perfection, the intense heat of the
                    place was nearly insupportable. I saw nothing of Heliobas all day, and after the
                    morning, very little of Zara. She disappeared soon after luncheon, and I could
                    not find her in her rooms nor in her studio, though I knocked at the door
                    several times. Leo, too, was missing. After being alone for an hour or more, I
                    thought I would pay a visit to the chapel. But on attempting to carry out this
                    intention I found its doors locked—an unusual circumstance which rather
                    surprised me. Fancying that I heard the sound of voices within, I paused to
                    listen. But all was profoundly silent. Strolling into the hall, I took up at
                    random from a side-table a little volume of poems, unknown to me, called
                    “Pygmalion in Cyprus;” and seating myself in
                    one of the luxurious Oriental easy-chairs near the silvery sparkling fountain, I
                    began to read. I opened the book I held at “A Ballad of Kisses,” which ran as
                    follows:
                
                    
                        “There are three kisses that I call to mind,
                        And I will sing their secrets as I go,—
                        The first, a kiss too courteous to be kind,
                        Was such a kiss as monks and maidens know,
                        As sharp as frost, as blameless as the snow.
                    
                    
                        “The second kiss, ah God! I feel it yet,
                        And evermore my soul will loathe the same,—
                        The toys and joys of fate I may forget,
                        But not the touch of that divided shame;
                        It clove my lips—it burnt me like a flame.
                    
                    
                        “The third, the final kiss, is one I use
                        Morning and noon and night, and not amiss,
                        Sorrow be mine if such I do refuse!
                        And when I die, be Love enrapt in bliss
                        Re-sanctified in heaven by such a kiss!”
                    
                
                This little gem, which I read and re-read with pleasure, was only one of many in
                    the same collection. The author was assuredly a man of genius. I studied his
                    word-melodies with intense interest, and noted with some surprise how original
                        and beautiful were many of his fancies and
                    similes. I say I noted them with surprise, because he was evidently a modern
                    Englishman, and yet unlike any other of his writing species. His name was not
                    Alfred Tennyson, nor Edwin Arnold, nor Matthew Arnold, nor Austin Dobson, nor
                    Martin Tupper. He was neither plagiarist nor translator—he was actually an
                    original man. I do not give his name here, as I consider it the duty of his own
                    country to find him out and acknowledge him, which, as it is so proud of its
                    literary standing, of course it will do in due season. On this, my first
                    introduction to his poems, I became speedily absorbed in them, and was repeating
                    to myself softly a verse which I remember now:
                
                    “Hers was sweetest of sweet faces,
                    Hers the tenderest eyes of all;
                    In her hair she had the traces
                    Of a heavenly coronal,
                    Bringing sunshine to sad places
                    Where the sunlight could not fall.”
                
                
                Then I was startled by the sound of a clock striking six. I bethought myself of
                    the people who were coming to dinner, and decided to go to my room and dress.
                    Replacing the “Pygmalion” book on the table whence I had taken it, I made my way
                    upstairs, thinking as I went of Zara and her strange request, and wondering what
                    journey she was going upon.
                I could not come to any satisfactory conclusion on this point; besides, I had a
                    curious disinclination to think about it very earnestly, though the subject kept
                    recurring to my mind. Yet always some inward monitor seemed to assure me, as
                    plainly as though the words were spoken in my ear:
                “It is useless for you to consider the reason of this, or the meaning of that.
                    Take things as they come in due order; one circumstance explains the other, and
                    everything is always for the best.”
                I prepared my Indian crêpe dress for the evening, the same I had worn for
                        Madame Didier's party at Cannes; only,
                    instead of having lilies of the valley to ornament it with, I arranged some
                    clusters of Maréchal Niel roses I had gathered from the conservatory—lovely
                    blossoms, with their dewy pale-gold centres forming perfect cups of delicious
                    fragrance. These, relieved by a few delicate sprays of the maidenhair fern,
                    formed a becoming finish to my simple costume. As I arrayed myself, and looked
                    at my own reflection in the long mirror, I smiled out of sheer gratitude. For
                    health, joyous and vigorous, sparkled in my eyes, glowed on my cheeks, tinted my
                    lips, and rounded my figure. The face that looked back at me from the glass was
                    a perfectly happy one, ready to dimple into glad mirth or bright laughter. No
                    shadow of pain or care remained upon it to remind me of past suffering, and I
                    murmured half aloud: “Thank God!”
                “Amen!” said a soft voice, and, turning round, I saw Zara.
                
                But how shall I describe her? No words can adequately paint the glorious beauty
                    in which, that night, she seemed to move as in an atmosphere of her own
                    creating. She wore a clinging robe of the richest, softest white satin, caught
                    in at the waist by a zone of pearls—pearls which, from their size and purity,
                    must have been priceless. Her beautiful neck and arms were bare, and twelve rows
                    of pearls were clasped around her slender throat, supporting in their centre the
                    electric stone, which shone with a soft, subdued radiance, like the light of the
                    young moon. Her rich, dark hair was arranged in its usual fashion—that is,
                    hanging down in one thick plait, which on this occasion was braided in and out
                    with small pearls. On her bosom she wore a magnificent cluster of natural
                    orange-blossoms; and of these, while I gazed admiringly at her, I first
                    spoke:
                “You look like a bride, Zara! You have all the
                    outward signs of one—white satin, pearls, and orange-blossoms!”
                She smiled.
                “They are the first cluster that has come out in our conservatory,” she said;
                    “and I could not resist them. As to the pearls, they belonged to my mother, and
                    are my favourite ornaments; and white satin is now no longer exclusively for
                    brides. How soft and pretty that Indian crêpe is! Your toilette is charming, and
                    suits you to perfection. Are you quite ready?”
                “Quite,” I answered.
                She hesitated and sighed. Then she raised her lovely eyes with a sort of wistful
                    tenderness.
                “Before we go down I should like you to kiss me once,” she said.
                I embraced her fondly, and our lips met with a lingering sisterly caress.
                “You will never forget me, will you?” she asked almost anxiously; “never cease to
                    think of me kindly?”
                
                “How fanciful you are to-night, Zara dear!” I said. “As if I could
                    forget you! I shall always think of you as the loveliest and sweetest woman in
                    the world.”
                “And when I am out of the world—what then?” she pursued.
                Remembering her spiritual sympathies, I answered at once:
                “Even then I shall know you to be one of the fairest of the angels. So you see,
                    Zara, darling, I shall always love you.”
                “I think you will,” she said meditatively; “you are one of us. But come! I hear
                    voices downstairs. I think our expected guests have arrived, and we must be in
                    the drawing-room to receive them. Good-bye, little friend!” And she again kissed
                    me.
                “Good-bye!” I repeated in astonishment; “why ‘goodbye’?”
                “Because it is my fancy to say the word,” she replied with quiet firmness.
                    “Again, dear little friend, good-bye!”
                
                I felt bewildered, but she would not give me time to utter another syllable. She
                    took my hand and hurried me with her downstairs, and in another moment we were
                    both in the drawing-room, receiving and saying polite nothings to the Everards
                    and Challoners, who had all arrived together, resplendent in evening costume.
                    Amy Everard, I thought, looked a little tired and fagged, though she rejoiced in
                    a superb “arrangement” by Worth of ruby velvet and salmon-pink. But, though a
                    perfect dress is consoling to most women, there are times when even that fails
                    of its effect; and then Worth ceases to loom before the feminine eye as a sort
                    of demigod, but dwindles insignificantly to the level of a mere tailor, whose
                    prices are ruinous. And this, I think, was the state of mind in which Mrs.
                    Everard found herself that evening; or else she was a trifle jealous of Zara's
                    harmonious grace and loveliness. Be this as it may, she was irritable, and whisperingly found fault with me for
                    being in such good health.
                “You will have too much colour if you don't take care,” she said almost
                    pettishly, “and nothing is so unfashionable.”
                “I know!” I replied with due meekness. “It is very bad style to be quite well—it
                    is almost improper.”
                She looked at me, and a glimmering smile lighted her features. But she would not
                    permit herself to become good-humoured, and she furled and unfurled her fan of
                    pink ostrich feathers with some impatience.
                “Where did that child get all those pearls from?” she next inquired, with a
                    gesture of her head towards Zara.
                “They belonged to her mother,” I answered, smiling, as I heard Zara called a
                        child, knowing, as I did, her real age.
                “She is actually wearing a small fortune on her person,” went on Amy; “I wonder
                    her brother allows her. Girls never 
                        under-
                        understand
                     stand the value of things of that
                    sort. They should be kept for her till she is old enough to appreciate
                    them.”
                I made no reply; I was absorbed in watching Heliobas, who at that moment entered
                    the room accompanied by Father Paul. He greeted his guests with warmth and
                    unaffected heartiness, and all present were, I could see, at once fascinated by
                    the dignity of his presence and the charm of his manner. To an uninstructed eye
                    there was nothing unusual about him; but to me there was a change in his
                    expression which, as it were, warned and startled me. A deep shadow of anxiety
                    in his eyes made them look more sombre and less keen; his smile was not so sweet
                    as it was stern, and there was an undeniable something in his very
                    bearing that suggested—what? Defiance? Yes, defiance; and it was this which,
                    when I had realized it, curiously alarmed me. For what had he, Heliobas to do
                    with even the thought of defiance? Did not all
                    his power come from the knowledge of the necessity of obedience to the spiritual
                    powers within and without? Quick as light the words spoken to me by Azùl
                    regarding him came back to my remembrance: “Even as he is my Beloved, so let him
                    not fail to hear my voice.” What if he should fail? A kind of
                    instinct came upon me that some immediate danger of this threatened him and I
                    braced myself up to a firm determination that, if this was so, I, out of my deep
                    gratitude to him, would do my utmost best to warn him in time. While these
                    thoughts possessed me the hum of gay conversation went, and Zara's bright
                    laughter ever and again broke like music on the air. Father Paul, too, proved
                    himself to be of quite a festive and jovial disposition, for he made himself
                    agreeable to Mrs. Challoner and her daughters, and entertained them with the
                    ease and bonhomie of an accomplished courtier
                    and man of the world.
                
                Dinner was announced in the usual way—that is, with the sound of music played by
                    the electric instrument devoted to that purpose, a performance which elicited
                    much admiration from all the guests. Heliobas led the way into the dining-room
                    with Mrs. Everard; Colonel Everard followed, with Zara on one arm and the eldest
                    Miss Challoner on the other; Mr. Challoner and myself came next; and Father
                    Paul, with Mrs. Challoner and her other daughter, Effie, brought up in the rear.
                    There was a universal murmur of surprise and delight as the dinner-table came in
                    view; and its arrangement was indeed a triumph of art. In the centre was placed
                    a large round of crystal in imitation of a lake, and on this apparently floated
                    a beautiful gondola steered by the figure of a gondolier, both exquisitely
                    wrought in fine Venetian glass. The gondola was piled high with a cargo of
                    roses; but the wonder of it all was, that the whole design was lit up by electricity. Electric sparkles, like drops
                    of dew, shone on the leaves of the flowers; the gondola was lit from end to end
                    with electric stars, which were reflected with prismatic brilliancy in the
                    crystal below; the gondolier's long pole glittered with what appeared to be
                    drops of water tinged by the moonlight, but which was really an electric wire,
                    and in his cap flashed an electric diamond. The whole ornament scintillated and
                    glowed like a marvellous piece of curiously contrived jewel-work. And this was
                    not all. Beside every guest at table a slender vase, shaped like a long-stemmed
                    Nile lily, held roses and ferns, in which were hidden tiny electric stars,
                    causing the blossoms to shine with a transparent and almost fairy-like
                    lustre.
                Four graceful youths, clad in the Armenian costume, stood waiting silently round
                    the table till all present were seated, and then they commenced the business
                        of serving the viands, with swift and
                    noiseless dexterity. As soon as the soup was handed round, tongues were
                    loosened, and the Challoners, who had been gazing at everything in almost
                    open-mouthed astonishment, began to relieve their feelings by warm expressions
                    of unqualified admiration, in which Colonel and Mrs. Everard were not slow to
                    join.
                “I do say, and I will say, this beats all I've ever seen,” said good Mrs.
                    Challoner, as she bent to examine the glittering vase of flowers near her plate.
                    “And this is real electric light? And it is perfectly harmless?”
                Heliobas smilingly assured her of the safety of his table decorations.
                “Electricity,” he said, “though the most powerful of masters, is the most docile
                    of slaves. It is capable of the smallest as well as of the greatest uses. It can
                    give with equal certainty life or death; in fact it is the key-note of
                    creation.”
                
                “Is that your theory, sir?” asked Colonel Everard.
                “It is not only my theory,” answered Heliobas, “it is a truth, indisputable and
                    unalterable, to those who have studied the mysteries of electric science.”
                “And do you base all your medical treatment on this principle?” pursued the
                    Colonel.
                “Certainly. Your young friend here, who came to me from Cannes, looking as if she
                    had but a few months to live, can bear witness to the efficacy of my
                    method.”
                Every eye was now turned upon me, and I looked up and laughed.
                “Do you remember, Amy,” I said addressing Mrs. Everard, “how you told me I looked
                    like a sick nun at Cannes? What do I look like now?”
                “You look as if you had never been ill in your life,” she replied.
                “I was going to say,” remarked Mr. Challoner in his deliberate manner, “that you remind me very much of a small painting
                    of Diana that I saw in the Louvre the other day. You have the same sort of
                    elasticity in your movements, and the same bright healthy eyes.”
                I bowed, still smiling. “I did not know you were such a flatterer, Mr. Challoner!
                    Diana thanks you!”
                The conversation now became general, and turned, among other subjects, upon the
                    growing reputation of Raffaello Cellini.
                “What surprises me in that young man,” said Colonel Everard, “is his colouring.
                    It is simply marvellous. He was amiable enough to present me with a little
                    landscape scene; and the effect of light upon it is so powerfully done that you
                    would swear the sun was actually shining through it.”
                The fine sensitive mouth of Heliobas curved in a somewhat sarcastic smile.
                “Mere trickery, my dear sir—a piece of clap-trap,” he said lightly. “That is
                        what would be said of such pictures—in
                    England at least. And it will be said by many oracular long
                    established newspapers, while Cellini lives. As soon as he is dead—ah! c'est autre chose!—he will then most probably be
                    acknowledged the greatest master of the age. There may even be a Cellini ‘School
                    of Colouring,’ where a select company of daubers will profess to know the secret
                    that has died with him. It is the way of the world!”
                Mr. Challoner's rugged face showed signs of satisfaction, and his shrewd eyes
                    twinkled.
                “Right you are sir!” he said, holding up his glass of wine. “I drink to you! Sir,
                    I agree with you! I calculate there's a good many worlds flying round in space,
                    but a more ridiculous, feeble-minded, contrary sort of world than this one, I
                    defy any archangel to find!”
                Heliobas laughed, nodded, and after a slight pause resumed:
                
                “It is astonishing to me that people do not see to what an infinite number of
                    uses they could put the little re-discovery they have made of luminous
                        paint. In that simple thing there is a secret, which as yet they do
                    not guess—a wonderful, beautiful, scientific secret, which may perhaps take them
                    a few hundred years to find out. In the meantime they have got hold of one end
                    of the thread; they can make luminous paint, and with it they can paint
                    light-houses, and, what is far more important—ships. Vessels in mid-ocean will
                    have no more need of fog-signals and different-coloured lamps; their own coat of
                    paint will be sufficient to light them safely on their way. Even rooms can be so
                    painted as to be perfectly luminous at night. A friend of mine, residing in
                    Italy, has a luminous ball-room, where the ceiling is decorated with a moon and
                    stars in electric light. The effect is exceedingly lovely; and though people
                    think a great deal of money must have been
                    laid out upon it, it is perhaps the only great ball-room in Italy that has been
                    really cheaply fitted up. But as I said before, there is another secret behind
                    the invention or discovery of luminous paint—a secret which, when once unveiled,
                    will revolutionize all the schools of art in the world.”
                “Do you know this secret?” asked Mrs. Challoner.
                “Yes, madame—perfectly.”
                “Then why don't you disclose it for the benefit of everybody?” demanded Effie
                    Challoner.
                “Because, my dear young lady, no one would believe me if I did. The time is not
                    yet ripe for it. The world must wait till its people are better educated.”
                “Better educated!” exclaimed Mrs. Everard. “Why, there is nothing talked of
                    nowadays but education and progress! The very children are wiser than their
                    parents!”
                
                “The children!” returned Heliobas, half inquiringly, half indignantly. “At the
                    rate things are going, there will soon be no children left; they will all be
                    tired little old men and women before they are in their teens. The very babes
                    will be born old. Many of them are being brought up without any faith in God or
                    religion; the result will be an increase of vice and crime. The purblind
                    philosophers, miscalled wise men, who teach the children by the light of poor
                    human reason only, and do away with faith in spiritual things, are bringing down
                    upon the generations to come an unlooked-for and most terrific curse. Childhood,
                    the happy, innocent, sweet, unthinking, almost angelic age, at which Nature
                    would have us believe in fairies and all the delicate aërial fancies of poets,
                    who are after all, the only true sages—childhood, I say, is being gradually
                    stamped out under the cruel iron heel of the Period—a period not of wisdom,
                    health, or beauty, but one of drunken
                    delirium, in which the world rushes feverishly along, its eyes fixed on one
                    hard, glittering, stony-featured idol—Gold. Education! Is it education to teach
                    the young that their chances of happiness depend on being richer than their
                    neighbours? Yet that is what it all tends to. Get on!—be successful! Trample on
                    others, but push forward yourself! Money, money!—let its chink be your music;
                    let its yellow shine be fairer than the eyes of love or friendship! Let its
                    piles accumulate and ever accumulate! There are beggars in the streets, but they
                    are humbugs; there is poverty in many places, but why seek to relieve it? Why
                    lessen the sparkling heaps of gold by so much as a coin? Accumulate and ever
                    accumulate! Live so, and then—die! And then—who knows what then?”
                His voice had been full of ringing eloquence as he spoke, but at these last words
                    it sank into a low, thrilling tone of
                    solemnity and earnestness. We all looked at him, fascinated by his manner, and
                    were silent.
                Mr. Challoner was the first to break the impressive pause.
                “I'm not a speaker, sir,” he observed slowly, “but I've got a good deal of
                    feeling somewheres; and you'll allow me to say I feel your words—I think they're
                    right true. I've often wanted to say what you've said, but haven't seen my way
                    clear to it. Anyhow, I've had a very general impression about me that what we
                    call Society has of late years been going, per express service, direct to the
                    devil—if the ladies will excuse me for plain speaking. And as the journey is
                    being taken by choice and free-will, I suppose there's no hindrance or stoppage
                    possible. Besides, it's a downward line, and curiously free from
                    obstructions.”
                “Bravo, John!” exclaimed Mrs. Challoner. “You are actually coming out! I never heard you indulge in similes
                    before.”
                “Well, my dear,” returned her husband, somewhat gratified, “better late than
                    never. A simile is a good thing if it isn't overcrowded. For instance, Mr.
                    Swinburne's similes are laid on too thick sometimes. There is a verse of his,
                    which, with all my admiration for him, I never could quite fathom. It is where
                    he earnestly desires to be as ‘any leaf of any tree;’ or, failing that,
                    he wouldn't mind becoming ‘as bones under the deep, sharp sea.’ I tried
                    hard to see the point of that, but couldn't fix it.”
                We all laughed. Zara, I thought, was especially merry, and looked her loveliest.
                    She made an excellent hostess, and exerted herself to the utmost to charm—an
                    effort in which she easily succeeded.
                The shadow on the face of her brother had not disappeared, and once or twice I
                    noticed that Father Paul looked at him with a certain kindly anxiety.
                
                The dinner approached its end. The dessert, with its luxurious dishes of rare
                    fruit, such as peaches, plantains, hothouse grapes, and even strawberries, was
                    served, and with a delicious, sparkling, topaz-tinted wine of Eastern origin
                    called Krüla, which was poured out to us in Venetian glass goblets, wherein lay
                    diamond-like lumps of ice. The air was so exceedingly oppressive that evening
                    that we found this beverage most refreshing. When Zara's goblet was filled, she
                    held it up smiling, and said:
                “I have a toast to propose.”
                “Hear, hear!” murmured the gentlemen, Heliobas excepted.
                “To our next merry meeting!” and as she said this she kissed the rim of the cup,
                    and made a sign as though wafting it towards her brother.
                He started as if from a reverie, seized his glass, and drained off its contents
                    to the last drop.
                
                Everybody responded with heartiness to Zara's toast, and then Colonel Everard
                    proposed the health of the fair hostess, which was drunk with enthusiasm.
                After this Zara gave the signal, and all the ladies rose to adjourn to the
                    drawing-room. As I passed Heliobas on my way out, he looked so sombre and almost
                    threatening of aspect, that I ventured to whisper:
                “Remember, Azùl!”
                “She has forgotten me!” he muttered.
                “Never-never!” I said earnestly. “Oh, Heliobas! what is wrong with you?”
                He made no answer, and there was no opportunity to say more, as I had to follow
                    Zara. But I felt very anxious, though I scarcely knew why, and I lingered at the
                    door and glanced back at him. As I did so, a low, rumbling sound, like
                    chariot-wheels rolling afar off, broke suddenly on our ears.
                
                “Thunder,” remarked Mr. Challoner quietly. “I thought we should have it. It has
                    been unnaturally warm all day. A good storm will clear the air.”
                In my brief backward look at Heliobas, I noted that when that far-distant thunder
                    sounded, he grew very pale. Why? He was certainly not one to have any dread of a
                    storm—he was absolutely destitute of fear. I went into the drawing-room with a
                    hesitating step—my instincts were all awake and beginning to warm me, and I
                    murmured softly a prayer to that strong, invisible majestic spirit which I knew
                    must be near me—my guardian angel. I was answered instantly—my foreboding grew
                    into a positive certainty that some danger menaced Heliobas, and that if I
                    desired to be his friend, I must be prepared for an emergency. Receiving this,
                    as all such impressions should be received, as a direct message sent me for my
                    guidance, I grew calmer, and braced up my energies to oppose something, though I knew not
                    what.
                Zara was showing her lady-visitors a large album of Italian photographs, and
                    explaining them as she turned the leaves. As I entered the room, she said
                    eagerly to me:
                “Play to us, dear! Something soft and plaintive. We all delight in your music,
                    you know.”
                “Did you hear the thunder just now?” I asked irrelevantly.
                “It was thunder? I thought so!” said Mrs. Everard. “Oh, I do hope
                    there is not going to be a storm! I am so afraid of a storm!”
                “You are nervous?” questioned Zara kindly, as she engaged her attention with some
                    very fine specimens among the photographs, consisting of views from Venice.
                “Well, I suppose I am,” returned Amy, half-laughing. “Yet I am plucky about most things, too. Still, I don't like to hear
                    the elements quarreling together—they are too much in earnest about it—and no
                    person can pacify them.”
                Zara smiled, and gently repeated her request to me for some music—a request in
                    which Mrs. Challoner and her daughters eagerly joined. As I went to the piano I
                    thought of Edgar Allan Poe's exquisite poem: 
                        “In Heaven a spirit doth dwell,
                        Whose heart-strings are a lute;
                        None sing so wildly well
                        As the angel Israfel,
                        And the giddy stars, so legends tell,
                        Ceasing their hymn, attend the spell
                        Of his voice—all mute.”
                     As I poised my fingers above the keys of the instrument, another long, low,
                    ominous roll of thunder swept up from the distance and made the room
                    tremble.
                “Play—play, for goodness' sake!” exclaimed Mrs. Everard; “and then we shall not be obliged to fix our attention on the
                    approaching storm!”
                I played a few soft opening arpeggio passages, while Zara seated herself in an
                    easy-chair near the window, and the other ladies arranged themselves on sofas
                    and ottomans to their satisfaction. The room was exceedingly close; and the
                    scent of the flowers that were placed about in profusion was almost too sweet
                    and overpowering.
                
                    “And they say (the starry choir
                    And the other listening things)
                    That Israfeli's fire
                    Is owing to that lyre,
                    By which he sits and sings,—
                    The trembling living wire
                    Of those unusual strings.”
                
                How these verses haunted me! With them floating in my mind, I played—losing
                    myself in mazes of melody, and travelling harmoniously in and out of the
                    different keys with that sense of perfect joy known only to those who can
                        improvise with ease, and catch the
                    unwritten music of nature, which always appeals most strongly to emotions that
                    are unspoilt by contact with the world, and which are quick to respond to what
                    is purely instinctive art. I soon became thoroughly absorbed, and forgot that
                    there were any persons present. In fancy I imagined myself again in view of the
                    glory of the Electric Ring—again I seemed to behold the opaline radiance of the
                    Central Sphere: 
                        “Where Love's a grown-up God,
                        Where the Houri glances are
                        Imbued with all the beauty
                        Which we worship in a star.”
                     By-and-by I found my fingers at the work of tenderly unravelling a little
                    skein of major melody, as soft and childlike as the innocent babble of a small
                    brooklet flowing under ferns. I followed this airy suggestion obediently, till
                    it led me of itself to its fitting end, when I ceased playing. I was greeted by
                    a little burst of applause, and looking up,
                    saw that all the gentlemen had come in from the dining-room, and were standing
                    near me. The stately figure of Heliobas was the most prominent in the group; he
                    stood erect, one hand resting lightly on the framework of the piano, and his
                    eyes met mine fixedly.
                “You were inspired,” he said with a grave smile, addressing me; “you did not
                    observe our entrance.”
                I was about to reply, when a loud appalling crash of thunder rattled above us, as
                    if some huge building had suddenly fallen into ruins. It startled us all into
                    silence for a moment, and we looked into each other's faces with a certain
                    degree of awe.
                “That was a good one,” remarked Mr. Challoner. “There was nothing undecided about
                    that clap. Its mind was made up.”
                Zara suddenly rose from her seat, and drew aside the window-curtains.
                “I wonder if it is raining?” she said.
                
                Amy Everard uttered a little shriek of dismay.
                “Oh, don't open the blinds!” she exclaimed. “It is really dangerous!”
                Heliobas glanced at her with a little sarcastic smile.
                “Take a seat on the other side of the room, if you are alarmed, madame,” he said
                    quietly, placing a chair in the position he suggested, which Amy accepted
                    eagerly.
                She would, I believe, have gladly taken refuge in the coal-cellar had he offered
                    it. Zara, in the meantime, who had not heard Mrs. Everard's exclamation of fear,
                    had drawn up one of the blinds, and stood silently looking out upon the night.
                    Instinctively we all joined her, with the exception of Amy, and looked out also.
                    The skies were very dark, a faint, moaning wind stirred the tops of the leafless
                    trees; but there was no rain. A dry volcanic heat pervaded the atmosphere—in
                    fact we all felt the air so stifling, that 
                        Heli-
                        Heliobas
                     obas threw open the window
                    altogether, saying, as he did so:
                “In a thunderstorm, it is safer to have the windows open than shut; besides, one
                    cannot suffocate.”
                A brilliant glare of light flashed suddenly upon our vision. The heavens seemed
                    torn open from end to end, and a broad lake of pale blue fire lay quivering in
                    the heart of the mountainous black clouds—for a second only. An on-rushing,
                    ever-increasing, rattling roar of thunder ensued, that seemed to shake the very
                    earth, and all was again darkness.
                “This is magnificent!” cried Mrs. Challoner, who, with her family, had travelled
                    a great deal, and was quite accustomed to hurricanes and other inconveniences
                    caused by the unaccommodating behaviour of the elements. “I don't think I ever
                    saw anything like it! John dear, even that storm we saw at Chamounix was not any
                    better than this.”
                
                “Well,” returned her husband meditatively, “you see we had the snow mountains
                    there, and the effect was pretty lively. Then there were the echoes—those
                    cavernous echoes were grand! What was that passage in Job, Effie, that I used to
                    say they reminded me of?”
                “‘The pillars of heaven tremble, and are astonished at His reproof... The thunder
                    of His power, who can understand?’” replied Effie Challoner reverently.
                “That's it!” he replied. “I opine that Job was pretty correct in his ideas—don't
                    you, reverend sir?” turning to Father Paul.
                The priest nodded, and held up his finger warningly.
                “That lady—Mrs. Everard—is going to sing or play, I think,” he observed. “Shall
                    we not keep silence?”
                I looked towards Amy in some surprise. I knew she sang very prettily, but I had
                    thought she was rendered too nervous by the
                    storm to do aught but sit quiet in her chair. However, there she was at the
                    piano, and in another moment her fresh, sweet, mezzo-soprano rang softly through
                    the room in Tosti's plaintive song, “Good-bye!” We listened, but none of us
                    moved from the open window where we still inhaled what air there was, and
                    watched the lowering sky. 
                        “Hush! a voice from the far away,
                        ‘Listen and learn,’ it seems to say;
                        ‘All the to-morrows shall be as to-day,’”
                     sang Amy with pathetic sweetness. Zara suddenly moved, as if oppressed,
                    from her position among us as we stood clustered together, and stepped out
                    through the French windows into the outside balcony, her head uncovered to the
                    night.
                “You will catch cold!” Mrs. Challoner and I both called to her simultaneously.
                    She shook her head, smiling back at us; and folding her arms lightly on the
                    stone 
                        balus-
                        balustrade
                     trade, leaned there and looked up at
                    the clouds.
                
                    “The link must break, and the lamp must die;
                    Good-bye to Hope! Good-bye—good-bye!”
                
                Amy's voice was a peculiarly thrilling one, and on this occasion sounded with
                    more than its usual tenderness. What with her singing and the invisible presence
                    of the storm, an utter silence possessed us—not one of us cared to move.
                Heliobas once stepped to his sister's side in the open balcony, and said
                    something, as I thought to warn her against taking cold; but it was a very brief
                    whisper, and he almost immediately returned to his place amongst us. Zara looked
                    very lovely out there; the light coming from the interior of the room glistened
                    softly on the sheen of her satin dress and its ornaments of pearls; and the
                    electric stone on her bosom shone faintly like a star on a rainy evening. Her
                    beautiful face, turned upwards to the angry
                    sky, was half in light and half in shade; a smile parted her lips, and her eyes
                    were bright with a look of interest and expectancy. Another sudden glare, and
                    the clouds were again broken asunder; but this time in a jagged and hasty
                    manner, as though a naked sword had been thrust through them and immediately
                    withdrawn.
                “That was a nasty flash,” said Colonel Everard, with an observant glance at the
                    lovely Juliet-like figure on the balcony. “Mademoiselle, had you not better come
                    in?”
                “When it begins to rain I will come in,” she said, without changing her posture.
                    “I hear the singing so well out here. Besides, I love the storm.”
                A tumultuous crash of thunder, tremendous for its uproar and the length of time
                    it was prolonged, made us look at each other again with anxious faces.
                
                    “What are we waiting for? Oh, my heart!
                    Kiss me straight on the brows and part!
                    
                    Again! again, my heart, my heart!
                    What are we waiting for, you and I?
                    A pleading look—a stifled cry!
                    Good-bye for ever—”
                
                Horror!—what was that? A lithe swift serpent of fire twisting venomously through
                    the dark heavens! Zara raised her arms, looked up, smiled, and fell—senseless!
                    with such appalling suddenness that we had scarcely recovered from the blinding
                    terror of that forked lightning-flash when we saw her lying prone before us on
                    the balcony where one instant before she had stood erect and smiling! With
                    exclamations of alarm and distress we lifted and bore her within the room, and
                    laid her tenderly down upon the nearest sofa. At that moment a deafening,
                    terrific thunderclap—one only—as if a huge bombshell had burst in the air, shook
                    the ground under our feet; and then, with a swish and swirl of long pent-up and
                    suddenly-released wrath, down came the rain.
                
                Amy's voice died away in a last “Good-bye!” and she rushed from the piano, with
                    pale face and trembling lips, gasping out:
                “What has happened? What is the matter?”
                “She has been stunned by a lightning-flash,” I said, trying to speak calmly,
                    while I loosened Zara's dress and sprinkled her forehead with eau de Cologne
                    from a scent-bottle Mrs. Challoner had handed to me. “She will recover in a few
                    minutes.”
                But my limbs trembled under me, and tears, in spite of myself, forced their way
                    into my eyes.
                Heliobas meanwhile—his countenance white and set as a marble mask—shut the window
                    fiercely, pulled down the blind, and drew the heavy silken curtains close. He
                    then approached his sister's senseless form, and, taking her wrist tenderly,
                    felt for her pulse. We looked on in the deepest anxiety. The Challoner girls
                    shivered with terror, and began to cry. Mrs.
                    Everard, with more self-possession, dipped a handkerchief in cold water and laid
                    it on Zara's temples; but no faint sigh parted the set yet smiling lips—no sign
                    of life was visible. All this while the rain swept down in gusty torrents and
                    rattled furiously against the window-panes; while the wind, no longer a moan,
                    had risen into a shriek, as of baffled yet vindictive anger. At last Heliobas
                    spoke.
                “I should be glad of other medical skill than my own,” he said, in low and
                    stifled accents. “This may be a long fainting-fit.”
                Mr. Challoner at once proffered his services.
                “I'll go for you anywhere you like,” he said cheerily; “and I think my wife and
                    daughters had better come with me. Our carriage is sure to be in waiting. It
                    will be necessary for the lady to have perfect quiet when she recovers, and
                    visitors are best away. You need not be alarmed, I am sure. By her colour it is evident she is only in a
                    swoon. What doctor shall I send?”
                Heliobas named one Dr. Morini, 10 Avenue de l'Alma.
                “Right! He shall be here straight. Come, wife—come, girls! Mrs. Everard, we'll
                    send back our carriage for you and the Colonel. Good-night! We'll call tomorrow
                    and inquire after mademoiselle.”
                Heliobas gratefully pressed his hand as he withdrew, and his wife and daughters,
                    with whispered farewells, followed him. We who were left behind all remained
                    near Zara, doing everything we could think of to restore animation to that
                    senseless form. Some of the servants, too, hearing what had happened, gathered
                    in a little cluster at the drawing-room door, looking with pale and alarmed
                    faces at the death-like figure of their beautiful mistress. Half an hour or more
                    must have passed in this manner; within the room there was a dreadful silence—but outside the rain poured down
                    in torrents, and the savage wind howled and tore at the windows like a besieging
                    army. Suddenly Amy Everard, who had been quietly and skilfully assisting me in
                    rubbing Zara's hands and bathing her forehead, grew faint, staggered, and would
                    have fallen had not her husband caught her on his arm.
                “I am frightened,” she gasped. “I cannot bear it—she looks so still, and she is
                    growing—rigid, like a corpse! Oh, if she should be dead!” And she hid her face
                    on her husband's breast.
                At that moment we heard the grating of wheels on the gravel outside; it was the
                    Challoner's carriage returned. The coachman, after depositing his master and
                    family at the Grand Hotel, had driven rapidly back in the teeth of the stinging
                    sleet and rain to bring the message that Dr. Morini would be with us as soon as
                    possible.
                “Then,” whispered Colonel Everard gently to me,
                    “I'll take Amy home. She is thoroughly upset, and it's no use having her go off
                    into hysterics. I'll call with Challoner to-morrow;” and with a kindly parting
                    nod of encouragement to us all, he slipped softly out of the room, half leading,
                    half carrying his trembling wife; and in a couple of minutes we heard the
                    carriage again drive away.
                Left alone at last with Heliobas and Father Paul, I, kneeling at the side of my
                    darling Zara, looked into their faces for comfort, but found none. The dry-eyed
                    despair on the countenance of Heliobas pierced me to the heart; the pitying,
                    solemn expression of the venerable priest touched me as with icy cold. The
                    lovely, marble-like whiteness and stillness of the figure before me filled me
                    with a vague terror. Making a strong effort to control my voice, I called in a
                    low, clear tone:
                “Zara! Zara!”
                No sign—not the faintest flicker of an eyelash!
                    Only the sound of the falling rain and the moaning wind—the thunder had long ago
                    ceased. Suddenly a something attracted my gaze, which first surprised and then
                    horrified me. The jewel—the electric stone on Zara's bosom no longer shone! It
                    was like a piece of dull unpolished pebble. Grasping at the meaning of this,
                    with overwhelming distinctive rapidity, I sprang up and caught the arm of
                    Heliobas.
                “You—you!” I whispered hurriedly. “You can restore her! Do as you
                    did with Prince Ivan; you can—you must! That stone she wears—the light has gone
                    out of it. If that means—and I am sure it does—that life has for a little while
                    gone out of her, you can bring it back, Quick—quick!
                    You have the power!”
                He looked me with burning grief-haunted eyes; and a sigh that was almost a groan
                    escaped his lips.
                “I have no power,” he said. “Not over her. I told you she was dominated by a higher force
                    than mine. What can I do? Nothing—worse than nothing—I am utterly
                    helpless.”
                I stared at him in a kind of desperate horror.
                “Do you mean to tell me,” I said slowly, “that she is dead—really dead?”
                He was about to answer, when one of the watching servants announced in a low
                    tone: “Dr. Morini.”
                The new-comer was a wiry, keen-eyed little Italian: his movements were quick,
                    decisive, and all to the point of action. The first thing he did was to scatter
                    the little group of servants right and left, and send them about their business.
                    The next, to close the doors of the room against all intrusion. He then came
                    straight up to Heliobas, and pressing his hand in a friendly manner, said
                    briefly:
                “How and when did this happen?”
                Heliobas told him in as few words as possible.
                    Dr. Morini than bent over Zara's lifeless form, and examined her features
                    attentively. He laid his ear against her heart and listened. Finally, he caught
                    sight of the round, lustreless pebble hanging at her neck suspended by its
                    strings of pearl. Very gently he moved this aside; looked, and beckoned us to
                    come and look also. Exactly on the spot where the electric stone had rested, a
                    small circular mark, like a black bruise, tainted the fair soft skin—a mark no
                    larger than a small finger-ring.
                “Death by electricity,” said Dr. Morini quietly. “Must have been instantaneous.
                    The lightning-flash, or downward electric current, lodged itself here, where
                    this mark is, and passed directly through the heart. Perfectly painless, but of
                    course fatal. She has been dead some time.”
                And, replacing the stone ornament in its former position, he stepped back with a
                    suggestive glance at Father Paul. I listened
                    and saw—but I was in a state of stupefaction. Dead? My beautiful, gay, strong
                    Zara dead? Impossible! I knelt beside her; I called her again and
                    again by every endearing and tender name I could think of; I kissed her sweet
                    lips. Oh, they were as cold as ice, and chilled my blood! As one in a dream, I
                    saw Heliobas advance; he kissed her forehead and mouth; he reverently unclasped
                    the pearls from about her throat, and with them took off the electric stone.
                    Then Father Paul stepped slowly forward, and in place of that once brilliant
                    gem, now so dim and destitute of fire, he laid a crucifix upon the fair and
                    gentle breast, motionless forever.
                At sight of this sacred symbol, some tense cord seemed to snap in my brain, and
                    I, cried out wildly:
                “Oh, no, no! Not that! That is for the dead; Zara is not dead! It is all a
                    mistake—a mistake! she will be quite well
                    presently; and she will smile and tell you how foolish you were to thing her
                    dead! Dead? She cannot be dead; it is impossible—quite impossible!” And I broke
                    into a passion of sobs and tears.
                Very gently and kindly Dr. Morini drew me away, and by dint of friendly
                    persuasion, in which there was also a good deal of firm determination, led me
                    into the hall, where he made me swallow a glass of wine. As I could not control
                    my sobs he spoke with some sternness:
                “Mademoiselle, you can do no good by giving way in this manner. Death is a very
                    beautiful and solemn thing, and it is irreverent to show unseemly passion in
                    such a great Presence. You loved your friend—let it be a comfort to you that she
                    died painlessly. Control yourself, in order to assist in rendering her the last
                    few gentle services necessary; and try to console the desolate brother, who
                    looks in real need of encouragement.”
                
                These last words aroused me. I forced back my tears, and dried my eyes.
                “I will, Dr. Morini,” I said, in a trembling voice. “I am ashamed to be so weak.
                    I know what I ought to do, and I will do it. You may trust me.”
                He looked at me approvingly.
                “That is well,” he said briefly. “And now, as I am of no use here, I will say
                    good-night. Remember, excessive grief is mere selfishness; resignation is
                    heroism.”
                He was gone. I nerved myself to the task I had before me, and within an hour the
                    fair casket of what had been Zara lay on an open bier in the little chapel,
                    lights burning round it, and flowers strewn above it in mournful profusion.
                We left her body arrayed in its white satin garb; the cluster of orange blossoms
                    she had gathered still bloomed upon the cold breast, where the crucifix lay; but
                    in the tresses of the long dark hair I wove a
                    wreath of lilies instead of the pearls we had undone.
                And now I knelt beside the bier absorbed in thought. Some of the weeping servants
                    had assembled, and knelt about in little groups. The tall candles on the altar
                    were lit, and Father Paul, clad in mourning priestly vestments, prayed there in
                    silence. The storm of rain and wind still raged without, and the windows of the
                    chapel shook and rattled with the violence of the tempest.
                A distant clock struck One! with a deep clang that echoed throughout
                    the house. I shuddered. So short a time had elapsed since Zara had been alive
                    and well; now, I could not bear to think that she was gone from me for ever. For
                    ever, did I say? No, not for ever—not so long as love exists—love that shall
                    bring us together again in that far-off Sphere where—
                Hush! what was that? The sound of the organ? I looked around me in startled wonderment. There was no one seated at the
                    instrument; it was shut close. The lights on the altar and round the bier burnt
                    steadily; the motionless figure of the priest before the tabernacle; the praying
                    servants of the household—all was unchanged. But certainly a flood of music
                    rolled grandly on the air—music that drowned for a moment the howling noise of
                    the battering wind. I rose softly, and touched one of the kneeling domestics on
                    the shoulder.
                “Did you hear the organ?” I said.
                The woman looked up at me with tearful, alarmed eyes.
                “No, mademoiselle.”
                I paused, listening. The music grew louder and louder, and surged round me in
                    waves of melody. Evidently no one in the chapel heard it but myself. I looked
                    about for Heliobas, but he had not entered. He was most probably in his study,
                    whither he had retired to grieve in secret when we had borne Zara's body to its couch of dreamless
                    sleep.
                These sounds were meant for me alone, then? I waited, and the music gradually
                    died away; and as I resumed my kneeling position by the bier all was again
                    silence, save for the unabated raging of the storm.
                A strange calmness now fell on my spirits. Some invisible hand seemed to hold me
                    still and tearless. Zara was dead. I realized it now. I began to consider that
                    she must have known her fate beforehand. This was what she had meant when she
                    said she was going on a journey. The more I thought of this the quieter I
                    became, and hid my face in my hands and prayed earnestly.
                A touch roused me—an imperative, burning touch. An airy brightness, like a light
                    cloud with sunshine falling through it, hovered above Zara's bier! I gazed
                    breathlessly; I could not move my lips to utter a sound. A face looked at
                        me—a face angelically beautiful! It
                    smiled. I stretched out my hands; I struggled for speech, and managed to
                    whisper:
                “Zara, Zara! you have come back!”
                Her voice, so sweetly familiar, answered me:
                “To life? Ah, never, never again! I am too happy to return. But save him—save my
                    brother! Go to him; he is in danger; to you is given the rescue. Save him; and
                    for me rejoice, and grieve no more!”
                The face vanished, the brightness faded, and I sprang up from my knees in haste.
                    For one instant I looked at the beautiful dead body of the friend I loved, with
                    its set mouth and placid features, and then I smiled. This was not
                        Zara—she was alive and happy; this fair clay was but clay
                    doomed to perish, but she was imperishable.
                “Save him—save my brother!” These words rang in my ears. I hesitated no longer—I determined to seek Heliobas at once.
                    Swiftly and noiselessly I slipped out of the chapel. As the door swung behind me
                    I heard a sound that first made me stop in sudden alarm, and then hurry on with
                    increased eagerness. There was no mistaking it—it was the clash of steel!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                A STRUGGLE FOR THE MASTERY.
                I RUSHED to the study-door, tore aside the velvet hangings, and faced
                    Heliobas and Prince Ivan Petroffsky. They held drawn weapons, which they lowered
                    at my sudden entrance, and paused irresolutely.
                “What are you doing?” I cried, addressing myself to Heliobas. “With the dead body
                    of your sister in the house, you can fight! You, too!” and I looked
                    reproachfully at Prince Ivan; “you also can desecrate the sanctity of death, and
                    yet—you loved her!”
                
                The Prince spoke not, but clenched his sword-hilt with a fiercer grasp, and
                    glared wildly on his opponent. His eyes had a look of madness in them—his dress
                    was much disordered—his hair wet with drops of rain—his face ghastly white, and
                    his whole demeanour was that of a man distraught with grief and passion. But he
                    uttered no word. Heliobas spoke; he was coldly calm, and balanced his sword
                    lightly on his open hand, as if it were a toy.
                “This gentleman,” he said with deliberate emphasis, “happened, on
                    his way thither, to meet Dr. Morini who informed him of the fatal catastrophe
                    which has caused my sister's death. Instead of respecting the sacredness of my
                    solitude under the circumstances, he thrust himself rudely into my presence,
                    and, before I could address him, struck me violently in the face, and accused me
                    of being my sister's murderer. Such conduct can only meet with one reply. I gave
                    him his choice of weapons: he chose swords.
                    Our combat has just begun—we are anxious to resume it; therefore if you,
                    mademoiselle, will have the goodness to retire—”
                I interrupted him.
                “I shall certainly not retire,” I said firmly. “This behaviour on both your parts
                    is positive madness. Prince Ivan, please to listen to me. The circumstances of
                    Zara's death were plainly witnessed by me and others—her brother is as innocent
                    of having caused it as I am.”
                And I recounted to him quietly all that had happened during that fatal and
                    eventful evening. He listened moodily, tracing out the pattern of the carpet
                    with the point of his sword. When I had finished he looked up, and a bitter
                    smile crossed his features.
                “I wonder, mademoiselle,” he said, “that your residence in this accursed house
                    has not taught you better. I quite believe all you say, that Zara,
                        unfortunate girl that she was, received
                    her death by a lightning-flash. But answer me this: Who made her capable of
                    attracting atmospheric electricity? Who charged her beautiful delicate body with
                    a vile compound of electrical fluid, so that she was as a living magnet, bound
                    to draw towards herself electricity in all its forms? Who tampered with her fine
                    brain and made her imagine herself allied to a spirit of air? Who but
                        he—he!—yonder unscrupulous wretch!—he, who in pursuit of his
                    miserable science, practiced his most dangerous experiments on his sister,
                    regardless of her health, her happiness, her life! I say he is her murderer—her
                    remorseless murderer, and a thrice-damned villain!”
                And he sprang forward to renew the combat. I stepped quietly, unflinchingly
                    between him and Heliobas.
                “Stop!” I exclaimed; “this cannot go on. Zara herself forbids it!”
                
                The Prince paused, and looked at me in a sort of stupefaction.
                “Zara forbids it!” he muttered. “What do you mean?”
                “I mean,” I went on, “that I have seen Zara since her death; I have spoken to
                    her. She herself sent me here.”
                Prince Ivan stared, and then burst into fit of wild laughter.
                “Little fool!” he cried to me; “he has maddened you too, then! You
                    are also a victim! Miserable girl! out of my path! Revenge—revenge! while I am
                    yet sane!”
                Then pushing me roughly aside, he cast away his sword, and shouted to
                    Heliobas:
                “Hand to hand, villain! No more of these toy-weapons! Hand to hand!”
                Heliobas instantly threw down his sword also, and rushing forward simultaneously,
                    they closed together in savage conflict. Heliobas was the taller and more
                    powerful of the two, but Prince Ivan seemed imbued with the spirit of a hundred devils, and sprang at
                    his opponent's throat with the silent breathless ferocity of a tiger. At first
                    Heliobas appeared to be simply on the defensive, and his agile, skilful
                    movements were all used to parry and ward off the other's grappling eagerness.
                    But as I watched the struggle, myself speechless and powerless, I saw his face
                    change. Instead of its calm and almost indifferent expression, there came a look
                    which was completely foreign to it—a look of savage determination bordering on
                    positive cruelty. In a moment I saw what was taking place in his mind. The
                    animal passions of the mere man were aroused—the spiritual force
                    was utterly forgotten. The excitement of the contest was beginning to tell, and
                    the desire of victory was dominant in the breast of him whose ideas were
                    generally—and should have been now—those of patient endurance and large
                    generosity. The fight grew closer, hotter, and more terrible. Suddenly the Prince swerved aside and fell,
                    and within a second Heliobas held him down, pressing one knee firmly against his
                    chest. From my point of observation I noted with alarm, that little by little
                    Ivan ceased his violent efforts to rise, and that he kept his eyes fixed on the
                    overshadowing face of his foe with an unnatural and curious pertinacity. I
                    stepped forward. Heliobas pressed his whole weight heavily down on the young
                    man's prostrate body, while with both hands he held him by the shoulders, and
                    gazed with terrific meaning into his fast-paling countenance. Ivan's lips turned
                    blue; his eyes appeared to start from their sockets; his throat rattled. The
                    spell that held me silent was broken; a flash of light, a flood of memory swept
                    over my intelligence. I knew that Heliobas was exciting the whole battery of his
                    inner electric force, and that thus employed for the purposes of vengeance, it
                    must infallibly cause death. I found my speech at last.
                
                “Heliobas!” I cried. “Remember, remember Azùl! When death lies like a gift in
                    your hand, withhold it! Withhold it, Heliobas; and give life instead!”
                He started at the sound of my voice, and looked up. A strong shudder shook his
                    frame. Very slowly, very reluctantly, he relaxed his position; he rose from his
                    kneeling posture on the Prince's breast—he left him and stood upright. Ivan at
                    the same moment heaved a deep sigh, and closed his eyes, apparently
                    insensible,
                Gradually, one by one, the hard lines faded out of the face of Heliobas, and his
                    old expression of soft and grave beneficence came back to it as graciously as
                    sunlight after rain. He turned to me, and bent his head in a sort of reverential
                    salutation.
                “I thank and bless you,” he said; “you reminded me in time. Another moment, and
                    it would have been too late. You have saved me.”
                
                “Give him his life,” I said, pointing to Ivan.
                “He has it,” returned Heliobas; “I have not taken it from him, thank God! He
                    provoked me; I regret it. I should have been more patient with him. He will
                    revive immediately. I leave him to your care. In dealing with him, I ought to
                    have remembered that human passion like his, unguided by spiritual knowledge,
                    was to be met with pity and forbearance. As it is, however, he is safe. For me,
                    I will go and pray for Zara's pardon, and that of my wronged Azùl.”
                As he uttered the last words, he started, looked up, and smiled.
                “My beautiful one! Thou hast pardoned me? Thou wilt love me still?
                    Thou art with me, Azùl, my beloved? I have not lost thee, oh my best and
                    dearest! Wilt thou lead me? Whither? Nay—no matter whither—I come!”
                And as one walking in sleep, he went out of the
                    room, and I heard his footsteps echoing in the distance on the way to the
                    chapel.
                Left alone with the Prince, I snatched a glass of cold water from the table, and
                    sprinkled some of it on his forehead and hands. This was quite sufficient to
                    revive him; and he drew a long breath, opened his eyes, and stared wildly about
                    him. Seeing no one but me, he grew bewildered, and asked:
                “What has happened?”
                Then catching sight of the drawn swords lying still on the ground where they had
                    been thrown, he sprang to his feet, and cried:
                “Where is the coward and murderer?”
                I made him sit down, and hear with patience what I had to say. I reminded him
                    that Zara's health and happiness had always been perfect, and that her brother
                    would rather have slain himself than her. I told him plainly that Zara had
                        expected her death, and had prepared for
                    it—had even bade me good-bye, although then I had not understood the meaning of
                    her words. I recalled to his mind the day when Zara had used her power to
                    repulse him.
                “Disbelieve as you will in electric spiritual force,” I said. “Your message to
                    her then through me was—Tell her I have seen her lover.”
                At these words a sombre shadow flitted over the Prince's face.
                “I tell you,” he said slowly, “that I believe I was on that occasion the victim
                    of an hallucination. But I will explain to you what I saw. A superb figure,
                    like, and yet unlike, a man, but of a much larger and grander form, appeared to
                    me, as I thought, and spoke. ‘Zara is mine,’ it said—‘mine by choice; mine by
                    free-will; mine till death; mine after death; mine through eternity. With her
                    thou hast naught in common; thy way lies 
                        else-
                        elsewhere
                     where. Follow the path allotted to
                    thee, and presume no more upon an angel's patience.’ Then this strange
                    majestic-looking creature, whose face, as I remember it, was extraordinarily
                    beautiful, and whose eyes were like self-luminous stars, vanished. But, after
                    all, what of it? The whole thing was a dream.”
                “I am not so sure of that,” I said quietly. “But, Prince Ivan, now that you are
                    calmer and more capable of resignation, will you tell me why you
                    loved Zara?”
                “Why!” he broke out impetuously. "Why, because it was impossible to
                    help loving her.”
                “That is no answer,” I replied. “Think! You can reason well if you like—I have
                    heard you hold your own in an argument. What made you love Zara?”
                He looked at me in a sort of impatient surprise, but seeing I was very much in
                    earnest, he pondered a minute or so before replying.
                
                “She was the loveliest woman I have ever seen!” he said at last, and in his voice
                    there was a sound of yearning and regret.
                “Is that all?” I queried, with a gesture of contempt. “Because her
                    body was beautiful—because she had sweet kissing lips and a soft skin; because
                    her hand was like a white flower, and her dark hair clustering over her brow
                    reminded one of a misty evening cloud hiding moonlight: because the glance of
                    her glorious eyes made the blood leap through your veins and sting you with
                    passionate desire—are these the reasons of your so-called love? Oh, give it some
                    other and lower name! For the worms shall feed on the fair flesh that won your
                    admiration—their wet and slimy bodies shall trail across the round white arms
                    and tender bosom—unsightly things shall crawl among the tresses of the glossy
                    hair; and nothing, nothing shall remain of what you loved, but
                    dust. Prince Ivan, you shudder; but I too loved Zara —I loved her, not the perishable casket
                    in which, like a jewel, she was for a time enshrined. I love her still—and for
                    the being I love there is no such thing as death.”
                The Prince was silent, and seemed touched. I had spoken with real feeling, and
                    tears of emotion stood in my eyes.
                “I loved her as a man generally loves,” he said, after a little pause. “Nay—more
                    than most men love most women!”
                “Most men are too often selfish in both their loves and hatreds,” I returned.
                    “Tell me if there was anything in Zara's mind and intelligence to attract you?
                    Did you sympathize in her pursuits; did you admire her tastes; had you any ideas
                    in common with her?”
                “No, I confess I had not,” he answered readily. “I considered her to be entirely
                    a victim to her brother's scientific experiments. I thought by making her my
                    wife, to release her from such tyranny and give her rescue and refuge. To this
                    end, I found out all I could
                        from—him”—he approached the name of Heliobas with
                    reluctance—“and I made up my mind that her delicate imagination had been
                    morbidly excited; but that marriage and a life like that led by other women
                    would bring her to a more healthy state of mind.”
                I smiled with a little scorn.
                “Your presumption was almost greater than your folly, Prince,” I said, “that with
                    such ideas as these in your mind you could dream of winning Zara for a wife. Do
                    you think she could have led a life like that of other women? A
                    frivolous round of gaiety, a few fine dresses and jewels, small-talk, society
                    scandal, stale compliments—you think such things would have suited
                        her? And would she have contented herself with a love like
                    yours? Come! Come and see how well she has escaped you!”
                And I beckoned him towards the door. He hesitated.
                
                “Where would you take me?” he asked.
                “To the chapel. Zara's body lies there.”
                He shuddered.
                “No, no—not there! I cannot bear to look upon her perished loveliness—to see that
                    face once so animated, white and rigid—death in such a form is too
                    horrible!”
                And he covered his eyes with his hand—I saw tears slowly drop through his
                    fingers. I gazed at him, half in wonder, half in pity.
                “And yet you are a brave man?” I said.
                These words roused him. He met my gaze with such a haggard look of woe that my
                    heart ached for him. What comfort had he now? What joy could he ever expect? All
                    his happiness was centred in the fact of being alive—alive to the
                    pleasures of living, and to the joys the world could offer to a man who was
                    strong, handsome, rich, and accomplished—how could he look upon death as
                    otherwise than a loathsome thing—a thing not
                    to be thought of in the heyday of youthful blood and jolity—a doleful spectre,
                    in whose bony hands the roses of love must fall and wither! With a sense of deep
                    commiseration in me, I spoke again with great gentleness.
                “You need not look upon Zara's corpse unless you wish it, Prince,” I said. “To
                    you, the mysteries of the Hereafter have not been unlocked, because there is
                    something in your nature that cannot and will not believe in God. Therefore to
                    you, death must be repellent. I know you are one of those for whom the present
                    alone exists—you easily forget the past, and take no trouble for the future.
                    Paris is your heaven, or St. Petersburg, or Vienna, as the fancy takes you; and
                    the modern atheistical doctrines of French demoralization are in your blood.
                    Nothing but a heaven-sent miracle could make you other than you are, and
                    miracles do not exist for the materialist. But
                    let me say two words more before you go from this house. Seek no more to avenge
                    yourself for your love-disappointment on Heliobas—for you have really nothing to
                    avenge. By your own confession you only cared for Zara's body—that body was
                    always perishable, and it has perished by a sudden but natural catastrophe. With
                    her soul, you declare you had nothing in common—that was herself—and she is
                    alive to us who love her as she sought to be loved. Heliobas is innocent of
                    having slain her body; he but helped to cultivate and foster that beautiful
                    Spirit which he knew to be her—for that he is to be honoured and
                    commended. Promise me, therefore, Prince Ivan, that you will never approach him
                    again except in friendship—indeed, you owe him an apology for your unjust
                    accusation, as also your gratitude for his sparing your life in the recent
                    struggle.”
                The Prince kept his eyes steadily fixed upon me
                    all the time I was speaking, and as I finished, he sighed and moved
                    restlessly.
                “Your words are compelling, mademoiselle,” he said; “and you have a strange
                    attraction for me. I know I am not wrong in thinking that you are a disciple of
                    Heliobas, whose science I admit, though I doubt his theories. I promise you
                    willingly what you ask—nay, I will even offer him my hand if he will accept
                    it.”
                Overjoyed at my success, I answered
                “He is in the chapel, but I will fetch him here.”
                Over the Prince's face a shadow of doubt, mingled with dread, passed swiftly, and
                    he seemed to be forming a resolve in his own mind which was more or less
                    distasteful to him. Whatever the feeling was he conquered it by a strong effort,
                    and said with firmness:
                “No; I will go to him myself. And I will look again upon—upon the face I loved. It is but one pang the more, and why should
                    I not endure it?”
                Seeing him thus inclined, I made no effort to dissuade him, and without another
                    word I led the way to the chapel. I entered it reverently, he following me
                    closely, with slow, hushed footsteps. All was the same as I had left it, save
                    that the servants of the household had gone to take some needful rest before the
                    morning light called them to their daily routine of labour. Father Paul, too,
                    had retired, and Heliobas alone knelt beside all that remained of Zara, his
                    figure as motionless as though carved in bronze, his face hidden in his hands.
                    As we approached, he neither stirred nor looked up, therefore I softly led the
                    Prince to the opposite side of the bier, that he might look quietly on the
                    perished loveliness that lay there at rest forever. Ivan trembled, yet
                    steadfastly gazed at the beautiful reposeful form, at the calm features on which
                    the smile with which death had been received,
                    still lingered—at the folded hands, the fading orange-blossoms—at the crucifix
                    that lay on the cold breast like the final seal on the letter of life.
                    Impulsively he stooped forward, and with a tender awe pressed his lips on the
                    pale forehead, but instantly started back with the smothered exclamation:
                “O God! how cold!”
                At the sound of his voice Heliobas rose up erect, and the two men faced each
                    other, Zara's dead body lying like a barrier betwixt them.
                A pause followed—a pause in which I heard my own heart beating loudly, so great
                    was my anxiety. Heliobas suffered a few moments to elapse, then stretched his
                    hand across his sister's bier.
                “In her name, let there be peace between us, Ivan,” he said in
                    accents that were both gentle and solemn.
                The Prince, touched to the quick, responded to these kindly words with eager promptness, and they clasped hands over the
                    quiet and lovely form that lay there—a silent, binding witness of their
                    reconciliation.
                “I have to ask your pardon, Casimir,” whispered Ivan. “I have also to thank you
                    for my life.”
                “Thank the friend who stands beside you,” returned Heliobas, in the same low
                    tone, with a slight gesture towards me. “She reminded me of a duty in time. As
                    for pardon, I know of no cause of offence on your part save what was perfectly
                    excusable. Say no more; wisdom comes with years, and you are yet young.”
                A long silence followed. We all remained looking wistfully down upon the body of
                    our lost darling, in thought too deep for words or weeping. I then noticed that
                    another humble mourner shared our watch—a mourner whose very existence I had
                    nearly forgotten. It was the faithful Leo. He
                    lay couchant on the stone floor at the foot of the bier, almost as silent as a
                    dog of marble; the only sign of animation he gave being a deep sigh which broke
                    from his honest heart now and then. I went to him and softly patted his shaggy
                    coat. He looked up at me with big brown eyes full of tears, licked my hand
                    meekly, and again laid his head down upon his two fore-paws with a resignation
                    that was almost pathetic.
                The dawn began to peer faintly through the chapel windows—the dawn of a misty,
                    chilly morning. The storm of the past night had left a sting in the air, and the
                    rain still fell, though gently. The wind had almost entirely sunk into silence.
                    I re-arranged the flowers that were strewn on Zara's corpse, taking away all
                    those that had slightly faded. The orange-blossom was almost dead, but I left
                    that where it was—where the living Zara had herself placed it. As I performed
                    this slight service, I thought, half
                    mournfully, half gladly— 
                        “Yes, Heaven is thine, but this
                        Is a world of sweets and sours—
                        Our flowers are merely flowers;
                        And the shadow of thy perfect bliss
                        Is the sunshine of ours."
                    
                Prince Ivan at last roused himself as from a deep and melancholy reverie, and,
                    addressing himself to Heliobas, said softly:
                “I will intrude no longer on your privacy, Casimir. Farewell! I shall leave Paris
                    to-night.”
                For all answer Heliobas beckoned him and me also out of the chapel. As soon as
                    its doors closed behind us, and we stood in the centre hall, he spoke with
                    affectionate and grave earnestness:
                “Ivan, something tells me that you and I shall not meet again for many years, if
                    ever. Therefore, when you say ‘farewell,’ the word falls upon my ears
                    with double meaning. We are friends—our friendship is sanctified by the dead presence of one whom we
                    both loved, in different ways; therefore you will take in good part what I now
                    say to you. You know, you cannot disguise from yourself that the science I study
                    is fraught with terrible truth and marvellous discoveries; the theories I deduce
                    from it you disbelieve, because you are nearly a materialist. I say
                        nearly—not quite. That ‘not quite’ makes me love
                    you, Ivan; I would save the small bright spark that flickers within you from
                    both escape and extinction. But I cannot—at least, not as yet. Still, in order
                    that you may know that there is a power in me higher than ordinary human reason,
                    before you go from me to-night hear my prophecy of your career. The world waits
                    for you, Ivan—the world, all agape and glittering with a thousand sparkling
                    toys; it waits, greedy for your presence, ready to fawn upon you for a smile,
                    willing to cringe to you for a nod of approval. And why? Because wealth is yours—vast, illimitable wealth.
                    Aye—you need not start or look incredulous—you will find it as I say. You, whose
                    fortune up to now has barely reached a poor four thousand per annum—you are at
                    this moment the possessor of millions. Only last night a relative of yours,
                    whose name you scarcely know, expired, leaving all his hoarded treasures to you.
                    Before the close of this present day, on whose threshold we now stand, you will
                    have the news. When you receive it remember me, and acknowledge that at least
                    for once I knew and spoke the truth. Follow the broad road, Ivan laid out before
                    you—a road wide enough not only for you to walk in, but for the crowd of toadies
                    and flatterers also, who will push on swiftly after you and jostle you on all
                    sides; be strong of heart and merry of countenance! Gather the roses; press the
                    luscious grapes into warm, red wine that, as you quaff it, shall make your blood
                    dance a mad waltz in your veins, and fair
                    women's faces shall seem fairer to you than ever; their embraces more tender,
                    their kisses more tempting! Spin the ball of Society like a toy in the palm of
                    your hand! I see your life stretching before me like a brilliant thread-like
                    ephemeral ray of light! But in the far distance across it looms a shadow—a
                    shadow that your power alone can never lift. Mark me, Ivan! When the first dread
                    chill of that shadow makes itself felt, come to me—I shall yet be living. Come;
                    for then no wealth can aid you—at that dark hour no boon companions can comfort.
                    Come; and by our friendship so lately sworn—by Zara's pure soul—by God's
                    existence, I will not die till I have changed that darkness over you into light
                    eternal!—Fare you well!”
                He caught the Prince's hand, and wrung it hard; then, without further word, look,
                    or gesture, turned and disappeared again within the chapel.
                
                His words had evidently made a deep impression on the young nobleman, who gazed
                    after his retreating figure with a certain awe not unmingled with fear.
                I held out my hand in silent farewell. Ivan took it gently, and kissed it with
                    graceful courtesy.
                “Casimir told me that your intercession saved my life, mademoiselle,” he said.
                    “Accept my poor thanks. If his present prophet-like utterances be true—”
                “Why should you doubt him?” I asked, with some impatience. “Can you believe in
                        nothing?”
                The Prince, still holding my hand, looked at me in a sort of grave
                    perplexity.
                “I think you have hit it,” he observed quietly. “I doubt everything except the
                    fact of my own existence, and there are times when I am not even sure of that.
                    But if, as I said before, the prophecy of my Chaldean friend, whom I cannot help
                    admiring with all my heart, turns out to be
                    correct, then my life is more valuable to me than ever with such wealth to
                    balance it, and I thank you doubly for having saved it by a word in time.”
                I withdrew my hand gently from his.
                “You think the worth of your life increased by wealth?” I asked.
                “Naturally! Money is power.”
                “And what of the shadow also foretold as inseparable from your fate?”
                A faint smile crossed his features.
                “Ah, pardon me! That is the only portion of Casimir's fortune-telling that I am
                    inclined to disbelieve thoroughly.”
                “But,” I said, “if you are willing to accept the pleasant part of his prophecy,
                    why not admit the possibility of the unpleasant occurring also?”
                He shrugged his shoulders.
                “In these enlightened times, mademoiselle, we only believe what is agreeable to
                    us, and what suits our own wishes, tastes, and opinions. Ca va sans dire. We cannot be
                    forced to accept a Deity against our reason. That is a grand result of modern
                    education.”
                “Is it?” and I looked at him with pity. “Poor human reason! It will reel into
                    madness sometimes for a mere trifle—an overdose of alcohol will sometimes upset
                    it altogether—what a noble omnipotent thing is human reason! But let me not
                    detain you. Goodbye, and—as the greeting of olden times used to run—God save
                    you!”
                He bent his head with a light reverence.
                “I believe you to be a good, sweet woman,” he said, “therefore I am grateful for
                    your blessing. My mother,” and here his eyes grew dreamy and wistful—“poor soul!
                    she died long ago—my mother would never let me retire to rest without signing
                    the cross on my brow. Ah well, that is past! I should like, mademoiselle,” and
                    his voice sank very low, “to send some flowers for—her—you understand?”
                I did understand, and readily promised to lay
                    whatever blossoms he selected tenderly above the sacred remains of that earthly
                    beauty he had loved, as he himself said “more than most men love most
                    women.”
                He thanked me earnestly, and seemed relieved and satisfied. Casting a look of
                    farewell around the familiar hall, he wafted a parting kiss towards the
                    chapel—an action which, though light, was full of tenderness and regret. Then,
                    with a low salute, he left me. The street-door opened and closed after him in
                    its usual noiseless manner. He was gone.
                The morning had now fairly dawned, and within the Hôtel Mars the work of the
                    great mansion went on in its usual routine; but a sombre melancholy was in the
                    atmosphere—a melancholy that not all my best efforts could dissipate. The
                    domestics looked sullen and heavy-eyed; the only ones in their number who
                    preserved their usual equanimity were the Armenian men- servants and the little Greek page. Preparations for
                    Zara's funeral went on apace; they were exceedingly simple, and the ceremony was
                    to be quite private in character. Heliobas issued his orders, and saw to the
                    carrying out of his most minute instruction in his usual calm manner; but his
                    eyes looked heavy, and his fine countenance was rendered even more majestic by
                    the sacred resigned sorrow that lay upon it like a deep shadow. His page served
                    him with breakfast in his private room; but he left the light meal untasted. One
                    of the women brought me coffee; but the very thought of eating and drinking
                    seemed repulsive, and I could not touch anything. My mind was busy with the
                    consideration of the duty I had to perform—namely, to see the destruction of
                    Zara's colossal statue, as she had requested. After thinking about it for some
                    time, I went to Heliobas and told him what I had it in charge to do. He listened
                    attentively.
                
                “Do it at once,” he said decisively. “Take two of my Armenians: they are
                    discreet, obedient, and they ask no questions—with strong hammers they will soon
                    crush the clay. Stay! I will come with you.” Then looking at me scrutinizingly,
                    he added kindly: “You have eaten nothing, my child? You cannot? But your
                    strength will give way—here, take this.” And he held out a small glass of a
                    fluid whose re-vivifying properties I knew to be greater than any sustenance
                    provided by an ordinary meal. I swallowed it obediently, and as I returned the
                    empty glass to him he said: “I also have a commission in charge from Zara. You
                    know, I suppose, that she was prepared for her death?”
                “I did not know; but I think she must have been,” I answered.
                “She was. We both were. We remained together in the chapel all day, saying what
                    parting words we had to say to one another. We
                    knew her death, or rather her release, was to occur at some hour that night; but
                    in what way the end was destined to come, we knew not. Till I heard the first
                    peals of thunder, I was in suspense; but after that I was no longer uncertain.
                    You were a witness of the whole ensuing scene. No death could have been more
                    painless than hers. But let me not forget the message she gave me for you.” Here
                    he took from a secret drawer the electric stone Zara had always worn. “This
                    jewel is yours,” he said. “You need not fear to accept it—it contains no harm;
                    it will bring you no ill-fortune. You see how all the sparkling brilliancy has
                    gone out of it? Wear it, and within a few minutes it will be as lustrous as
                    ever. The life throbbing in your veins warms the electricity contained in it;
                    and with the flowing of your blood, its hues change and glow. It has no power to
                    attract; it can simply absorb and shine. Take it as a remembrance of her who loved you and who loves you
                    still.”
                I was still in my evening dress, and my neck was bare. I slipped the chain, on
                    which hung the stone, round my throat, and watched the strange gem with some
                    curiosity. In a few seconds a pale streak of fiery topaz flashed through it,
                    which deepened and glowed into a warm crimson, like the heart of a red rose; and
                    by the time it had become thoroughly warmed against my flesh, it glittered as
                    brilliantly as ever.
                “I will always wear it,” I said earnestly. “I believe it will bring me good
                    fortune.”
                “I believe it will,” returned Heliobas simply. “And now let us fulfill Zara's
                    other commands.”
                On our way across the hall we were stopped by the page, who brought us a message
                    of inquiry after Zara's health from Colonel Everard and his wife, and also from
                    the Challoners. Heliobas hastily wrote a few
                    brief words in pencil, explaining the fatal result of the accident, and returned
                    it to the messenger, giving orders at the same time that all the blinds should
                    be pulled down at the windows of the house, that visitors might understand there
                    was no admittance. We then proceeded to the studio, accompanied by the Armenians
                    carrying heavy hammers. Reverently, and with my mind full of recollections of
                    Zara's living presence, I opened the familiar door. The first thing that greeted
                    us was a most exquisitely wrought statue in white marble of Zara herself, full
                    length, and arrayed in her customary graceful Eastern costume. The head was
                    slightly raised; a look of gladness lighted up the beautiful features; and
                    within the loosely clasped hands was a cluster of roses. Round the pedestal were
                    carved the words, “Omnia vincit Amor,”—with Zara's name and the dates of her
                    birth and death. A little slip of paper lay at
                    the foot of the statue, which Heliobas perceived, and taking it, he read and
                    passed it to me. The lines were in Zara's handwriting, and ran as follows:
                “To my beloved Casimir—my brother, my friend, my guide and teacher, to whom I owe
                    the supreme happiness of my life in this world and the next—let this poor figure
                    of his grateful Zara be a memento of happy days that are gone, only to be
                    renewed with redoubled happiness hereafter.”
                I handed back the paper silently, with tears in my eyes, and we turned our
                    attention to the colossal figure we had come to destroy. It stood at the extreme
                    end of the studio, and was entirely hidden by white linen drapery. Heliobas
                    advanced, and by a sudden dexterous movement succeeded in drawing off the
                    coverings with a single effort, and then we both fell back and gazed at the clay form disclosed in amazement.
                    What did it represent? A man? a god? an angel? or all three united in one vast
                    figure?
                It was an unfinished work. The features of the face were undeclared, save the
                    brow and eyes; and these were large, grand, and full of absolute wisdom and
                    tranquil consciousness of power. I could have gazed on this wonderful piece of
                    Zara's handiwork for hours, but Heliobas called to the Armenian servants, who
                    stood near the door awaiting orders, and commanded them to break it down. For
                    once these well-trained domestics showed signs of surprise, and hesitated. Their
                    master frowned. Snatching a hammer from one of them, he himself attacked the
                    great statue as if it were a foe, and a cloud of dust began to fill the studio.
                    The Armenians, seeing he was in earnest, returned to their usual habits of
                    passive obedience, and aided him in his labour. Within a few minutes the great and beautiful figure lay in fragments
                    on the floor, and these fragments were soon crushed into indistinguishable
                    atoms. I had promised to witness this work of destruction, and witness it I did,
                    but it was with pain and regret. When all was finished, Heliobas commanded his
                    men to carry the statue of Zara's self down to his own private room, and then to
                    summon all the domestics of the household in a body to the great hall, as he
                    wished to address them. I heard him give this order with some surprise, and he
                    saw it. As the Armenians slowly disappeared, carrying with great care the marble
                    figure of their late mistress, he turned to me, as he locked up the door of the
                    studio, and said quietly:
                “These ignorant folk, who serve me for money and food—money that they have
                    eagerly taken, and food that they have greedily devoured—they think that I am
                    the devil or one of the devil's agents, and I
                    am going to prove their theories entirely to their satisfaction. Come and
                    see!”
                I followed him, somewhat mystified. On the way downstairs he said:
                “Do you know why Zara wished that statue destroyed?”
                “No,” I said frankly; “unless for the reason that it was incomplete.”
                “It always would have been incomplete,” returned Heliobas; “even had she lived to
                    work at it for years. It was a daring attempt, and a fruitless one. She was
                    trying to make a clay figure of one who never wore earthly form—the Being who is
                    her Twin-Soul, who dominates her entirely, and who is with her now. As well
                    might she have tried to represent in white marble the prismatic hues of the
                    rainbow!”
                We had now reached the hall, and the servants were assembling by twos and threes.
                    They glanced at their master with looks of awe, as he took up a commanding position near the fountain, and faced them
                    with a glance of calm scrutiny and attention. I drew a chair behind one of the
                    marble columns and seated myself, watching everything with interest. Leo
                    appeared from some corner or other, and laid his rough body down at his master's
                    feet.
                In a few minutes all the domestics, some twenty in number, were present, and
                    Heliobas, raising his voice, spoke with a clear deliberate enunciation:
                “I have sent for you all this morning, because I am perfectly aware that you have
                    all determined to give me notice.”
                A stir of astonishment and dismay ensued on the part of the small audience, and I
                    heard one voice near me whisper:
                “He is the devil, or how could he have known it?”
                The lips of Heliobas curled in a fine sarcastic smile. He went on:
                “I spare you this trouble. Knowing your
                    intentions, I take upon myself to dismiss you at once. Naturally you cannot risk
                    your characters by remaining in the service of the devil. For my own part, I
                    wonder the devil's money has not burnt your hands, or his food turned to poison
                    in your mouths. My sister, your kind and ever-indulgent mistress is dead. You
                    know this, and it is your opinion that I summoned up the thunderstorm which
                    caused her death. Be it so. Report it so, if you will, through Paris; your words
                    do not affect me. You have been excellent machines, and for your services many
                    thanks! As soon as my sister's funeral is over, your wages, with an additional
                    present, will be sent to you. You can then leave my house when you please; and,
                    contrary to the usual custom of accepted devils, I am able to say, without
                    perishing in the effort—God speed you all!”
                The faces of those he addressed exhibited various emotions while he spoke— fear contending with a good deal of shame.
                    The little Greek page stepped forward timidly.
                “The master knows that I will never leave him,” he murmured, and his large eyes
                    were moist with tears.
                Heliobas laid a gentle hand on the boy's dark curls, but said nothing. One of the
                    four Armenians advanced, and with a graceful rapid gesture of his right hand,
                    touched his head and breast.
                “My lord will not surely dismiss us who desire to devote ourselves
                    to his service? We are willing to follow my lord to the death, if need be, for
                    the sake of the love and honour we bear him.”
                Heliobas looked at him very kindly.
                “I am richer in friends than I thought myself to be,” he said quietly. “Stay
                    then, by all means, Afra, you and your companions, since you have desired it.
                    And you, my boy,” he went on, addressing the tearful page, “think you that I
                        would turn adrift an orphan, whom a dying
                    mother trusted to my care? Nay, child, I am as much your servant as you are
                    mine, so long as your love turns towards me.”
                For an answer the page kissed his hand in a sort of rapture, and flinging back
                    his clustering hair from his classic brows, surveyed the domestics who had taken
                    their dismissal in silent acquiescence, with a pretty scorn.
                “Go, all of you, scum of Paris!” he cried in his clear treble tones—“you who know
                    neither God nor devil! You will have your money—more than your share—what else
                    seek you? You have served one of the noblest of men; and because he is so great
                    and wise and true, you judge him a fiend! Oh, so like the people of Paris—they
                    who pervert all things till they think good evil, and evil good! Look you! you
                    have worked for your wages; but I have worked for him—I would
                        starve with him, I would die for him! For
                    to me he is not fiend, but Angel!”
                Overcome by his own feelings the boy again kissed his master's hand, and Heliobas
                    gently bade him be silent. He himself looked round on the still motionless group
                    of servants with an air of calm surprise.
                “What are you waiting for?” he asked. “Consider yourselves dismissed, and at
                    liberty to go where you please. Any one of you that chooses to apply to me for a
                    character shall not lack the suitable recommendation. There is no more to
                    say.”
                A lively-looking woman with quick restless black eyes stepped forward.
                “I am sure,” she said, with a mincing curtsey, “that we are very sorry if we have
                    unintentionally wronged monsieur; but monsieur, who is aware of so many things,
                    must know that many reports are circulated about monsieur that make one to
                    shudder; that madame his sister's death so
                    lamentable has given to all, what one would say, the horrors; and monsieur must
                    consider that poor servants of virtuous reputation—”
                “So, Jeanne Claudet!” interrupted Heliobas, in a thrilling low tone. “And what of
                    the child—the little waxen-faced helpless babe left to die on the banks of the
                    Loire? But it did not die, Jeanne—it was rescued; and it shall yet live to
                    loathe its mother!”
                The woman uttered a shriek, and fainted.
                In the feminine confusion and fuss that ensued, Heliobas, accompanied by his
                    little page and the dog Leo, left the hall and entered his own private room,
                    where for some time I left him undisturbed.
                In the early part of the afternoon a note was brought to me. It was from Colonel
                    Everard, entreating me to come as soon as possible to his wife, who was very
                    ill.
                “Since she heard of the death of that beautiful young lady, a death so
                        fearfully sudden and unexpected,” wrote
                    the Colonel, “she has been quite unlike herself—nervous, hysterical, and
                    thoroughly unstrung. It will be a real kindness to her if you will come as soon
                    as you can—she has such a strong desire for your company.”
                I showed this note at once to Heliobas. He read it, and said:
                “Of course you must go. Wait till our simple funeral ceremony is over, and
                    then—we part. Not forever; I shall see you often again. For now I have lost
                    Zara, you are my only female disciple, and I shall not willingly lose sight of
                    you. You will correspond with me?”
                “Gladly and gratefully,” I replied.
                “You shall not lose by it. I can initiate you into many secrets that will be
                    useful to you in your career. As for your friend Mrs. Everard, you will find
                    that your presence will cure her. You have progressed greatly in electric force;
                    the mere touch of your hand will soothe her,
                    as you will find. But never be tempted to try any of the fluids of which you
                    have the recipes on her, or on anybody but yourself, unless you write to me
                    first about it, as Cellini did when he tried an experiment on you. As for your
                    own bodily and spiritual health, you know thoroughly what to do—keep the
                        secret; and make a step in advance every day. By-and-by you will have
                    double work.”
                “How so?” I asked.
                “In Zara's case, her soul became dominated by a Spirit whose destiny was
                    fulfilled and perfect, and who never could descend to imprisonment in earthly
                    clay. Now, you will not be dominated—you will be simply equalized;
                    that is, you will find the exact counterpart of your own soul dwelling also in
                    human form, and you will have to impart your own force to that other soul, which
                    will, in its turn, impart to yours a corresponding electric impetus. There is no union so lovely as such an one—no harmony
                    so exquisite; it is like a perfect chord, complete and indissoluble. There are
                    sevenths and ninths in music, beautiful and effective in their degrees; but
                    perhaps none of them are so absolutely satisfying to the ear as the perfect
                    chord. And this is your lot in life and in love, my child—be grateful for it
                    night and morning on your bended knees before the Giver of all good. And walk
                    warily—your own soul with that other, shall need much higher thought and humble
                    prayer. Aim onward and upward—you know the road—you also know and you have
                    partly seen, what awaits you at the end.”
                After this conversation we spoke no more in private together. The rest of the
                    afternoon was entirely occupied with the final preparations for Zara's funeral,
                    which was to take place at Père-la-Chaise early the next morning. A large and
                    beautiful wreath of white roses, lilies, and 
                        maiden-
                        maidenhair
                     hair arrived from Prince Ivan: and,
                    remembering my promise to him, I went myself to lay it in a conspicuous place on
                    Zara's corpse. That fair body was now laid in its coffin of polished oak, and a
                    delicate veil of filmy lace draped it from head to foot. The placid expression
                    of the features remained unchanged, save for a little extra rigidity of the
                    flesh: the hands, folded over the crucifix, were stiff, and looked as though
                    they were moulded in wax. I placed the wreath in position and paused, looking
                    wistfully at that still and solemn figure. Father Paul, slowly entering from a
                    side-door, came and stood beside me.
                “She is happy,” he said; and a cheerful expression irradiated his venerable
                    features.
                “Did you also know she would die that night?” I asked softly.
                “Her brother sent for me, and told me of her expected dissolution. She herself told me, and made her last confession and
                    communion. Therefore I was prepared.”
                “But did you not doubt—were you not inclined to think they might be wrong?” I
                    inquired, with some astonishment.
                “I knew Heliobas as a child,” the priest returned. “I knew his father and mother
                    before him; and I have been always perfectly aware of the immense extent of his
                    knowledge, and the value of his discoveries. If I were inclined to be sceptical
                    on spiritual matters, I should not be of the race I am; for I am also a
                    Chaldean.”
                I said no more, and Father Paul trimmed the tapers burning round the coffin in
                    devout silence. Again I looked at the fair dead form before me; but somehow I
                    could not feel sad again. All my impulses bade me rejoice. Why should I be
                    unhappy on Zara's account?—more especially when the glories of the Central
                    Sphere were yet fresh in my memory, and when I knew as a positive fact that her
                        happiness was now perfect. I left the
                    chapel with a light step and lighter heart, and went to my own room to pack up
                    my things that all might be in readiness for my departure on the morrow. On my
                    table I found a volume whose quaint binding I at once recognised—“The Letters of
                    a Dead Musician.” A card lay beside it, on which was written in pencil:
                “Knowing of your wish to possess this book, I herewith offer it for your
                    acceptance. It teaches you a cheerful devotion to Art, and an indifference to
                    the world's opinions—both of which are necessary to you in your
                    career—HELIOBAS.”
                Delighted with this gift, I opened the book, and found my name written on the
                    fly-leaf, with the date of the month and year, and the words:
                ““La musica è il lamento dell'amore o la preghiera a gli
                        Dei.” (Music is the lament of love, or a prayer to the Gods.)
                
                I placed this treasure carefully in a corner of my portmanteau, together with the
                    parchment scrolls containing “The Electric Principle of Christianity,” and the
                    valuable recipes of Heliobas; and as I did so I caught sight of myself in the
                    long mirror that directly faced me. I was fascinated, not by my own reflection,
                    but by the glitter of the electric gem I wore. It flashed and glowed like a
                    star, and was really lovely—far more brilliant than the most brilliant cluster
                    of fine diamonds. I may here remark that I have been asked many questions
                    concerning this curious ornament whenever I have worn it in public, and the
                    general impression has been that it is some new arrangement of electric light
                    such as is manufactured for the hair-pins and other ornaments recently seen at
                    Truefitt's in Bond Street. It is, however, nothing of the kind; it is simply a
                    clear pebble, common enough on the shores of tropical countries, which has the 
                        pro-
                        property
                     perty of absorbing a small portion
                    of the electricity in a human body, sufficient to make it shine with prismatic
                    and powerful lustre—a property which has only yet been discovered by Heliobas,
                    who asserts that the same capability exists in many other apparently lustreless
                    stones which have been untried, and are therefore unknown. The “healing stones,”
                    or amulets, still in use in the East, and also in the remote parts of the
                    Highlands (see notes to Archibald Clerk's translation of Ossian),
                    are also electric, but in a different way—they have the property of absorbing
                        disease and destroying it in certain cases; and these, after
                    being worn a suitable length of time, naturally exhaust what virtue they
                    originally possessed, and are no longer of any use. Stone amulets are considered
                    nowadays as a mere superstition of the vulgar and uneducated; but it must be
                    remembered that superstition itself has always had for its foundation some grain, however small and remote, of fact. I
                    could give a very curious explanation of the formation of orchids,
                    those strange plants called sometimes “Freaks of Nature,” as if Nature ever
                    indulged in a “freak” of any kind! But I have neither time nor space to enter
                    upon the subject now; indeed, if I were once to begin to describe the wonderful,
                    amazing and beautiful vistas of knowledge that the wise Chaldean, who is still
                    my friend and guide, has opened up and continues to extend before my admiring
                    vision, a work of twenty volumes would scarce contain all I should have to say.
                    But I have written this book merely to tell those who peruse it, about Heliobas,
                    and what I myself experienced in his house; beyond this I may not go. For, as I
                    observed in my introduction, I am perfectly aware that few, if any, of my
                    readers will accept my narrative as more than a mere visionary romance—or that
                    they will admit the mysteries of life, death,
                    eternity, and all the wonders of the Universe to be simply the natural and
                        scientific outcome of a Ring of Everlasting Electricity; but whether
                    they agree to it or no, I can say with Galileo, “E pur
                        si muove!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                CONCLUSION.
                IT was a very simple and quiet procession that moved next day from the
                    Hôtel Mars to Père-la-Chaise. Zara's coffin was carried in an open hearse, and
                    was covered with a pall of rich white velvet, on which lay a royal profusion of
                    flowers—Ivan's wreath, and a magnificent cross of lilies sent by tender-hearted
                    Mrs. Challoner, being most conspicuous among them. The only thing a little
                    unusual about it was that the funeral car was drawn by two stately
                        white horses; and Heliobas told me this had been ordered at Zara's special request, as she thought the
                    solemn pacing through the streets of dismal black steeds had a depressing effect
                    on the passer-by.
                “And why,” she had said, “should anybody be sad, when I in reality
                    am so thoroughly happy?”
                Prince Ivan Petroffsky had left Paris, but his carriage, drawn by two prancing
                    Russian steeds, followed the hearse at a respectful distance, as also the
                    carriages of Dr. Morini, and some other private persons known to Heliobas. A few
                    people attended it on foot, and these were chiefly from among the very poor,
                    some of whom had benefited by Zara's charity or her brother's medical skill, and
                    had heard of the calamity through rumour, or through the columns of the
                        Figaro, where it was reported with graphic brevity. The
                    weather was still misty, and the fiery sun seemed to shine through tears as
                    Father Paul, with his assistants, read in solemn yet cheerful tones the service for the dead according to the Catholic ritual.
                    One of the chief mourners at the grave was the faithful Leo; who, without
                    obtruding himself in any one's way, sat at a little distance, and seemed, by the
                    confiding look with which he turned his eyes upon his master, to thoroughly
                    understand that he must henceforth devote his life entirely to him. The coffin
                    was lowered, the “Requiem æternam” spoken—all was over. Those assembled shook
                    hands quietly with Heliobas, saluted each other, and gradually dispersed. I
                    entered a carriage and drove back to the Hôtel Mars, leaving Heliobas in the
                    cemetery to give his final instructions for the ornamentation and decoration of
                    his sister's grave.
                The little page served me with some luncheon in my own apartment, and by the time
                    all was ready for my departure Heliobas returned. I went down to him in his
                    study, and found him sitting 
                        pen-
                        pensively
                     sively in his armchair, absorbed in
                    thought. He looked sad and solitary, and my whole heart went out to him in
                    gratitude and sympathy. I knelt beside him as a daughter might have done, and
                    softly kissed his hand. He started as though awakened suddenly from sleep, and
                    seeing me, his eyes softened, and he smiled gravely.
                “Are you come to say ‘Good-bye,’ my child?” he asked, in a kind tone. “Well, your
                    mission here is ended!”
                “Had I any mission at all,” I replied, with a grateful look, “save the very
                    selfish one which was comprised in the natural desire to be restored to
                    health?”
                Heliobas surveyed me for a few moments in silence.
                “Were I to tell you,” he said at last, “by what mystical authority and influence
                    you were compelled to come here, by what a marvellously linked chain of
                    circumstances you became known to me long
                    before I saw you; how I was made aware that you were the only woman living to
                    whose companionship I could trust my sister at a time when the society of one of
                    her own sex became absolutely necessary to her; how you were marked out to me as
                    a small point of light by which possibly I might steer my course clear of the
                    darkness which threatened me—I say, were I to tell you all this, you would no
                    longer doubt the urgent need of your presence here. It is, however, enough to
                    tell you that you have fulfilled all that was expected of you, even beyond my
                    best hopes; and in return for your services, the worth of which you cannot
                    realize, whatever guidance I can give you in the future for your physical and
                    spiritual life, is yours. I have done something for you, but not much—I will do
                    more. Only, in communicating with me, I ask you to honour me with your full
                    confidence in all matters pertaining to yourself and your 
                        surround-
                        surroundings
                     ings—hen I shall not be liable to
                    errors of judgment in the opinions I form, or the advice I give.”
                “I promise most readily,” I replied gladly, for it seemed to me that I was rich
                    in possessing as a friend and counsellor such a man as this student of the
                    loftiest sciences.
                “And now, one thing more,” he resumed, opening a drawer in the table near which
                    he sat. “Here is a pencil for you to write your letters to me with. It will last
                    about ten years, and at the expiration of that time you can have another. Write
                    with it on any paper, and the marks will be like those of an ordinary
                    drawing-pencil; but as fast as they are written they disappear. Trouble not
                    about this circumstance—write all you have to say, and when you have finished
                    your letter your closely covered pages shall seem blank. Therefore, were the eye
                    of a stranger to look at them, nothing could be learned therefrom. But when they reach me, I can make the writing appear
                    and stand out on these apparently unsullied pages as distinctly as though your
                    words had been printed. My letters to you will also, when you receive them,
                    appear blank; but you will only have to press them for about ten minutes in
                    this”—and he handed me what looked like an ordinary blotting-book—“and they will
                    be perfectly legible. Cellini has these little writing implements; he uses them
                    whenever the distances are too great for us to amuse ourselves with the sagacity
                    of Leo—in fact, the journeys of that faithful animal have principally been to
                    keep him in training.”
                “But,” I said, as I took the pencil and book from his hand, “why do you not make
                    these convenient writing materials public property? They would be so
                    useful.”
                “Why should I build up a fortune for some needy stationer?” he asked, with a half-smile. “Besides, they are not new
                    things. They were known to the ancients, and many secret letters, laws,
                    histories and poems were written with instruments such as these. In an old
                    library, destroyed more than two centuries ago, there was a goodly pile of
                    apparently blank parchment. Had I lived then and known what I know now, I could
                    have made the white pages declare their mystery.”
                “Has this also to do with electricity?” I asked.
                “Certainly—with what is called vegetable electricity. There is not a plant or
                    herb in existence, but has almost a miracle hidden away in its tiny cup or
                    spreading leaves—do you doubt it?”
                “Not I!” I answered quickly. “I doubt nothing!”
                Heliobas smiled gravely.
                “You are right!” he said. “Doubt is the destroyer of beauty—the poison in the
                    sweet cup of existence—the curse which mankind
                    have brought on themselves. Avoid it as you would the plague. Believe in
                    anything or everything miraculous and glorious—the utmost reach of your faith
                    can with difficulty grasp the majestic reality and perfection of everything you
                    can see, desire, or imagine. Mistrust that volatile thing called Human Reason,
                    which is merely a name for whatever opinion we happen to adopt for the time—it
                    is a thing which totters on its throne in a fit of rage or despair—there is
                    nothing infinite about it. Guide yourself by the delicate Spiritual Instinct
                    within you, which tells you that with God all things are possible, save that He
                    cannot destroy Himself or lessen by one spark the fiery brilliancy of His
                    ever-widening circle of productive Intelligence. But make no attempt to convert
                    the world to your way of thinking—it would be mere waste of time.”
                “May I never try to instruct anyone in these things?” I asked.
                
                “You can try, if you choose; but you will find most human beings like the herd of
                    swine in the Gospel, possessed by devils that drive them headlong into the sea.
                        You know, for instance, that angels and aërial spirits actually
                    exist; but were you to assert your belief in them, philosophers (so-called)
                    would scout your theories as absurd,—though their idea of a lonely
                    God, who yet is Love, is the very acme of absurdity. For Love must
                    have somewhat to love, and must create the beauty and happiness
                    round itself and the things beloved. But why point out these simple things to
                    those who have no desire to see? Be content, child, that you have
                    been deemed worthy of instruction—it is a higher faith for you than if you had
                    been made a Queen.”
                The little page now entered, and told me that the carriage was at the door in
                    waiting. As he disappeared again after delivering the message, Heliobas rose from his chair, and taking my two hands in
                    his, pressed them kindly.
                “One word more, little friend, on the subject of your career. I think the time
                    will come when you will feel that music is almost too sacred a thing to be given
                    away for money to a careless and promiscuous public. However this may be,
                    remember that scarce one of the self-styled ‘artists’ who cater for
                    the crowd deserves to be called musician in the highest sense of
                    the word. Most of them seek not music, but money and applause; and therefore the
                    art they profess is degraded by them into a mere trade. But you, when you play
                    in public, must forget that persons with little vanities and lesser
                    opinions exist. Think of what you saw in your journey with Azùl; and by a strong
                    effort of your will, you can, if you choose, compel certain
                    harmonies to sound in your ears—fragments of what is common breathing air to the
                    Children of the Ring, some of whom you saw—and
                    you will be able to reproduce them in part, if not in entirety. But if you once
                    admit a thought of self to enter your brain, those aërial sounds
                    will be silenced instantly. By this means, too, you can judge who are the true
                    disciples of Music in this world—those who, like Schubert and Chopin, suffered
                    the heaven-born melodies to descend through them as though they
                    were mere conductors of sound; or those who, feebly imitating other
                    composers, measure out crotchets and quavers by rule and line, and flood the
                    world with inane and perishable, and therefore useless, productions. And
                    now,—farewell!”
                “Do you remain in Paris?” I asked.
                “For a few days only. I shall go to Egypt, and in travelling accustom myself to
                    the solitude in which I must dwell, now Zara has left me.”
                “You have Azùl,” I ventured to remark.
                “Ah! but how often do I see her? Only when my soul for an instant is clear from all earthly and gross obstruction; and
                    how seldom I can attain to this result while weighted with my body! But she is
                    near me—that I know—faithful as the star to the mariner's
                    compass!”
                He raised his head as he spoke, and his eyes flashed. Never had I seen him look
                    more noble or kingly. The inspired radiance of his face softened down into his
                    usual expression of gentleness and courtesy, and he said, offering me his
                    arm:
                “Let me see you to the carriage. You know it is not an actual parting with us—I
                    intend that we shall meet frequently. For instance, the next time we exchange
                    pleasant greetings will be it Italy.”
                I suppose I looked surprised; I certainly felt so, for nothing was further from
                    my thoughts than a visit to Italy.
                Heliobas smiled, and said in a tone that was almost gay:
                “Shall I draw the picture for you? I see a fair city, deep embowered in hills and sheltered by olive-groves. Over it beams
                    a broad sky, deeply blue; many soft bells caress the summer air. Away in the
                    Cascine Woods a gay party of people are seated on the velvety moss; they have
                    mandolines, and they sing for pure gaiety of heat. One of them, a woman with
                    fair hair, arrayed in white, with a red rose at her bosom, is gathering the wild
                    flowers that bloom around her, and weaving them into posies for her companions.
                    A stranger, pacing slowly book in hand, through the shady avenue, sees her—her
                    eyes met his. She springs up to greet him; he takes her hand. The woman is
                    yourself; the stranger no other than your poor friend, who now, for a brief
                    space, takes leave of you!”
                So rapidly had he drawn up this picture, that the impression made on me was as
                    though a sudden vision had been shown to me in a magic glass. I looked at him
                    earnestly.
                
                “Then our next meeting will be happy?” I said inquiringly.
                “Of course. Why not? And the next—and the next after that also!” he answered.
                At this reply, so frankly given, I was relieved, and accompanied him readily
                    through the hall towards the street door. Leo met us here, and intimated, as
                    plainly as a human being could have done, his wish to bid me good-bye. I stooped
                    and kissed his broad head and patted him affectionately, and was rewarded for
                    these attentions by seeing his plume-like tail wave slowly to and fro—a sign of
                    pleasure the poor animal had not betrayed since Zara's departure from the scene
                    of her earthly imprisonment.
                At the door, the pretty Greek boy handed me a huge basket of the loveliest
                    flowers.
                “The last from the conservatory,” said Heliobas. “I shall need no more of these
                    luxuries.”
                
                As I entered the carriage he placed the flowers beside me, and again took my
                    hand.
                “Good-bye, my child!” he said, in earnest and kindly tones. “I have your address,
                    and will write you all my movements. In any trouble small or great, of your own,
                    send to me for advice without hesitation. I can tell you already that I foresee
                    the time when you will resign altogether the precarious and unsatisfactory life
                    of a mere professional musician. You think no other career would be possible to
                    you. Well, you will see. A few months will decide all. Good-bye again; God bless
                    you!”
                The carriage moved off, and Heliobas stood on the steps of his mansion watching
                    it out of sight. To the last I saw his stately figure erect in the light of the
                    winter sunshine—a figure destined from henceforth to occupy a prominent position
                    in my life and memory. The regret I felt at
                    parting from him was greatly mitigated by the assurance he gave me of our future
                    meeting, a promise which has since been fulfilled, and is likely soon to be
                    fulfilled again. That I have such a friend is an advantageous circumstance for
                    me, for through his guidance I am able to judge accurately of many things
                    occurring in the course of the daily life around me—things which, seemingly
                    trivial, are the hints of serious results to come, which I am thus permitted in
                    part to foresee. There is a drawback, of course, and the one bitter cup of
                    knowledge is, that the more I progress under the tuition of Heliobas, the less I
                    am deceived by graceful appearances. I perceive with almost cruel suddenness the
                    true characters of all those whom I meet. No smile of lip or eye can delude me
                    into accepting mere surface-matter for real depth, and it is intensely painful
                    for me to be forced to behold hypocrisy in the expression of the apparently devout—sensuality in the face of some
                    radiantly beautiful and popular woman—vice under the mask of
                    virtue—self-interest in the guise of friendship, and spite and malice springing
                    up like a poisonous undergrowth beneath the words of elegant flattery or dainty
                    compliment. I often wish I could throw a rose-coloured mist of illusion over all
                    these things, and still more earnestly do I wish I could in a single instance
                    find myself mistaken. But alas! the fatal finger of the electric instinct within
                    me points out unerringly the flaw in every human diamond, and writes
                        “Sham” across many a cunningly contrived imitation of
                    intelligence and goodness. Still, the grief I feel at this is counterbalanced in
                    part by the joy with which I quickly recognise real virtue; real nobility, real
                    love; and when these attributes flash out upon me from the faces of human
                    beings, my own soul warms, and I know I have seen a vision as of angels. The capability of Heliobas to
                    foretell future events proved itself in his knowledge of the fate of the famous
                    English hero, Gordon, long before that brave soldier met his doom. At the time
                    the English Government sent him out on his last fatal mission, a letter from
                    Heliobas to me contained the following passage:
                “I see Gordon has chosen his destiny and the manner of his death. Two ways of
                    dying have been offered him—one that is slow, painful, and inglorious; the other
                    sudden, and therefore sweeter to a man of his temperament. He himself is
                    perfectly aware of the approaching end of his career; he will receive his
                    release at Khartoum. England will lament over him for a little while and then he
                    will be declared an inspired madman who rushed recklessly on his own doom; while
                    those who allowed him to be slain will be voted the wisest, the most just, and virtuous in the realm.”
                This prophecy was carried out to the letter, as I fully believe certain things of
                    which I am now informed will also be carried out. But though there are persons
                    who pin their faith on “Zadkiel,” I doubt if there are any who will believe in
                    such a thing as electric divination. The one is mere vulgar
                    imposture, the other is performed on a purely scientific basis in accordance
                    with certain existing rules and principles; yet I think there can be no question
                    as to which of the two the public en masse is
                    likely to prefer. On the whole, people do not mind being humbugged; they hate
                    being instructed, and the trouble of thinking for themselves is almost too much
                    for them. Therefore “Zadkiel” is certain to flourish for many and many a long
                    day, while the lightning instinct of prophecy dormant in every human being remains unused and utterly forgotten
                    except by the rare few.
                
                I have little more to say. I feel that those among my readers who idly turn over
                    these pages, expecting to find a “novel” in the true acceptation of
                    the term, may be disappointed. My narrative is simply an “experience;” but I
                    have no wish to persuade others of the central truth contained in it—namely,
                        the existence of powerful electric organs in every human being, which
                        with proper cultivation are capable of marvellous spiritual force.
                    The time is not yet ripe for this fact to be accepted.
                The persons connected with this story may be dismissed in a few words. When I
                    joined my friend Mrs. Everard, she was suffering from nervous hysteria. My
                    presence had the soothing effect Heliobas had assured me of, and in a very
                        few days we started from Paris in company
                    for England. She, with her amiable and accomplished husband, went back to the
                    States a few months since to claim an immense fortune, which they are now
                    enjoying as most Americans enjoy wealth. Amy has diamonds to her heart's
                    content, and toilettes galore from Worth's; but she has no
                    children, and from the tone of her letters to me, I fancy she would part with
                    one at least of her valuable necklaces to have a small pair of chubby arms round
                    her neck, and a soft little head nestling against her bosom.
                Raffaello Cellini still lives and works; his paintings are among the marvels of
                    modern Italy for their richness and warmth of colour—colour which, in spite of
                    his envious detractors, is destined to last through ages. He is not very rich,
                    for he is one of those who give away their substance to the poor and the
                    distressed; but where he is known he is universally beloved. None of his pictures have yet been exhibited
                    in England, and he is no hurry to call upon the London critics for their
                    judgment. He has been asked several times to sell his large picture, “Lords of
                    our Life and Death,” but he will not. I have never met him since our intercourse
                    at Cannes, but I hear of him frequently through Heliobas, who has recently
                    forwarded me a proof engraving of the picture “L'Improvisatrice,” for which I
                    sat as model. It is a beautiful work of art, but that it is like me
                    I am not vain enough to admit. I keep it, not as a portrait of myself, but as a
                    souvenir of the man through whose introduction I gained the best friend I
                    have.
                News of Prince Ivan Petroffsky reaches me frequently. He is the possessor of the
                    immense wealth foretold by Heliobas; the eyes of Society greedily follow his
                    movements; his name figures conspicuous!y in the “Fashionable Intelligence;” and the magnificence of his recent marriage
                    festivities was for some time the talk of the Continent. He has married the only
                    daughter of a French Duke—a lovely creature, as soulless and heartless as a
                    dressmaker's stuffed model; but she carries his jewels well on her white bosom,
                    and receives his guests with as much dignity as a well-trained major-domo. These
                    qualities suffice to satisfy her husband at present; how long his
                    satisfaction will last is another matter. He has not quite forgotten Zara; for
                    on every recurring Jour des Morts, or Feast of
                    the Dead, he sends a garland or cross of flowers to the simple grave in
                    Père-la-Chaise. Heliobas watches his career with untiring vigilance; nor can I
                    myself avoid taking a certain interest in the progress of his fate. At the
                    moment I write he is one of the most envied and popular noblemen in all the
                    Royal Courts of Europe; and no one thinks of asking him whether he is happy. He must be happy, says the
                    world; he has everything that is needed to make him so. Everything? yes—all
                    except one thing, for which he will long when the shadow of the end draws
                    near.
                And now what else remains? A brief farewell to those who have perused this
                    narrative, or a lingering parting word?
                In these days of haste and scramble, when there is no time for faith, is there
                    time for sentiment? I think not. And therefore there shall be none between my
                    readers and me, save this—a friendly warning. Belief—belief in God—belief in all
                    things noble, unworldly, lofty, and beautiful, is rapidly being crushed
                    underfoot by—what? By mere lust of gain! Be sure, good people, be very sure that
                    you are right in denying God for the sake of man—in abjuring the
                    spiritual for the material—before you rush recklessly onward. The end for all of
                    you can be but death; and are you quite positive after all that there is
                        no Hereafter? Is it sense to
                    imagine that the immense machinery of the Universe has been set in motion for
                    nothing? Is it even common reason to consider that the Soul of Man, with all its
                    high musings, its dreams of unseen glory, its longings after the Infinite, is a
                    mere useless vapour, or a set of shifting molecules in a perishable brain? The
                    mere fact of the existence of a desire clearly indicates an
                        equally existing capacity for the gratification of
                    that desire; therefore, I ask, would the wish for a future state of
                    being, which is secretly felt by every one of us, have been permitted to find a
                    place in our natures, if there were no possible means of granting
                        it? Why all this discontent with the present—why all this universal
                    complaint and world-weariness, if there be no hereafter? For my own
                    part, I have told you frankly what I have seen and what I
                        know; but I do not ask you to believe me. I only say,
                        IF—if you admit to yourselves the possibility of a future and eternal state of existence, would it not
                    be well for you to inquire seriously how you are preparing for it in these wild
                    days? Look at society around you, and ask yourselves: Whither is our
                        “Progress” tending—Forward or Backward—Upward or Downward?
                    Which way? Fight the problem out. Do not glance at it casually, or put it away
                    as an unpleasant thought, or a consideration involving too much trouble—struggle
                    with it bravely till you resolve it, and whatever the answer may be, abide
                        by it. If it leads you to deny God and the immortal destinies of your
                    own souls, and you find hereafter, when it is too late, that both God and
                    immortality exist, you have only yourselves to blame. We are the arbiters of our
                    own fate, and that fact is the most important one of our lives. Our
                        will is positively unfettered; it is a rudder put freely into
                    our hands, and with it we can steer wherever we choose. God will
                    not compel our love or obedience. We must ourselves desire to love and
                        obey—desire it above all things in the world.
                As for the Electric Origin of the Universe, a time is coming when scientific men
                    will acknowledge it to be the only theory of Creation worthy of acceptance. All
                    the wonders of Nature are the result of light and heat
                        alone—i.e., are the work of the Electric Ring I have
                    endeavoured to describe, which must go on producing, absorbing, and
                    reproducing worlds, suns, and systems for ever and ever. The Ring, in its turn,
                    is merely the outcome of God's own personality—the atmosphere surrounding the
                    World in which He has His existence—a World created by Love and for Love alone.
                    I cannot force this theory on public attention, which is at present claimed by
                    various learned professors, who give ingenious explanations of “atoms” and
                    “molecules;” yet, even regarding these same “atoms,” the mild question may be
                    put: Where did the first “atom” come from? Some may answer: “We call the first atom
                        God.” Surely it is as well to call Him a Spirit of pure Light
                    as an Atom? However, the fact of one person's being convinced of a truth will
                    not, I am aware, go very far to convince others. I have related my “experience”
                    exactly as it happened at the time, and my readers can accept or deny the
                    theories of Heliobas as they please. Neither denial, acceptance, criticism, nor
                    incredulity can affect me personally, inasmuch as I am not
                    Heliobas, but simply the narrator of an episode connected with him; and as such
                    my task is finished.
            
            THE END.
            BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. S. & H.
            
            
        
    
