
     ----CITATION----
        Norton, Caroline Sheridan (1808-1877). The Dream and Other Poems. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 342 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-Apr-07).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7052
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE DREAM, AND OTHER POEMS.
                
                BY THE HONBLE. MRS. NORTON.
                DEDICATED TO HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF SUTHERLAND.
                
                    
                        
                            “We have one human heart,—
                            All mortal thoughts confess a common home.”
                        
                        Shelley.
                    
                
                
                    LONDON: 
                    HENRY COLBURN, PUBLISHER,
                        GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
                
                1840.
                
                
                    LONDON: 
                    Printed by WILLIAM CLOWES and SONS, Stamford Street.
                
            
            
                
                CONTENTS.
                
                    Dedication V
                    THE DREAM 1
                    Notes 73
                    THE CREOLE GIRL; or, The Physician's Story 77
                    TWILIGHT 97
                    A DESTINY 109
                
                
                    MISCELLANEOUS PIECES:
                    The Chapel Royal St. James's, on the 10th February, 1840 125
                    Notes 131
                    On seeing Anthony, the eldest Child of Lord and Lady Ashley 133
                    The Dying Hour 137
                    I Cannot Love Thee! 143
                    The Poet's Choice 153
                    The German Student's Love-Song 157
                    The Hunting-Horn of Charlemagne 162
                    The Faithful Friend 167
                    To Ferdinand Seymour 175
                    The Winter's Walk—(Written after walking with Mr. Rogers) 178
                    The Reprieve 184
                    The Faithful Guardian 189
                    The Forsaken 193
                    The Visionary Portrait 198
                    The Picture of Sappho 202
                    
                    The Sense of Beauty 206
                    The Mother's Heart 212
                    May-Day, 1837 216
                    The Fever-Dream 219
                    To the Lady H.O. 223
                    The Fallen Leaves 227
                    The Autumn Wind 230
                    The Blind Man's Bride 233
                    The Widow to her Son's Betrothed 237
                    The Tryst 241
                    The Banner of the Covenanters 243
                    The Rock of the Betrayed 249
                    The Lament for Shuil Donald's Daughter 261
                    Weep not for Him that Dieth! 264
                    The Child of Earth*
                        266
                    The Christening of my Brother's Infant Son 269
                    The Mother's Last Watch 275
                
                
                    SONNETS
                    I. On seeing the bust of the young Princess de Montfort 283
                    II. and III. Raphael and the Fornarina 284
                    IV. V. VI. VII. Love Sonnets 286
                    VIII. To my Books 290
                    IX. To the Countess Heléne Zavadowsky 291
                    X. To Taglioni 292
                    XI. The Moss-Walk at Markly, Sussex 293
                    XII. The Disdained Lover 294
                    XIII. The Weaver 295
                    XIV. From the Spanish 296
                    XV. To Miss Augusta Cowell 297
                    XVI. XVII. Princess Marie of Wirtemburg 298
                    XVIII. XIX. On hearing of the death of the Countess of Burlington 300
                
                * This, and several
                    of the preceding pieces, have appeared in print, in the Annuals, &c.
            
            
                
                DEDICATION.
                
                    ONCE more, my harp! once more, although I thought
                    Never to wake thy silent strings again,
                    A wandering dream thy gentle chords have wrought,
                    And my sad heart, which long hath dwelt in pain,
                    Soars, like a wild bird from a cypress bough,
                    Into the poet's Heaven, and leaves dull grief below!
                
                
                    And unto Thee—the beautiful and pure—
                    Whose lot is cast amid that busy world
                    Where only sluggish Dulness dwells secure,
                    And Fancy's generous wing is faintly furl'd;
                    To thee—whose friendship kept its equal truth
                    Through the most dreary hour of my embitter'd youth—
                
                
                
                    I dedicate the lay. Ah! never bard,
                    In days when Poverty was twin with song;
                    Nor wandering harper, lonely and ill-starr'd;
                    Cheer'd by some castle's chief, and harboured long;
                    Not Scott's “Last Minstrel,” in his trembling lays,
                    Woke with a warmer heart the earnest meed of praise!
                
                
                    For easy are the alms the rich man spares
                    To sons of Genius, by misfortune bent,
                    But thou gav'st me, what woman seldom dares,
                    Belief—in spite of may a cold dissent—
                    When slandered and maligned, I stood apart,
                    From those whose bounded power, hath wrung, not crushed, my heart.
                
                
                    Then, then, when cowards lied away my name,
                    And scoff'd to see me feebly stem the tide;
                    When some were kind on whom I had no claim,
                    And some forsook on whom my love relied,
                    And some, who might have battled for my sake,
                    Stood off in doubt to see what turn “the world” would take—
                
                
                
                    Thou gavest me that the poor do give the poor,
                    Kind words, and holy wishes, and true tears;
                    The loved, the near of kin, could do no more,
                    Who changed not with the gloom of varying years,
                    But clung the closer when I stood forlorn,
                    And blunted Slander's dart with their indignant scorn.
                
                
                    For they who credit crime are they who feel
                    Their own hearts weak to unresisted sin;
                    Mem'ry, not judgment, prompts the thoughts which steal
                    O'er minds like these, an easy faith to win;
                    And tales of broken truth are still believed
                    Most readily by those who have themselves deceived.
                
                
                    But, like a white swan down a troubled stream,
                    Whose ruffling pinion hath the power to fling
                    Aside the turbid drops which darkly gleam
                    And mar the freshness of her snowy wing,—
                    So Thou, with queenly grace and gentle pride,
                    Along the world's dark waves in purity dost glide;
                
                
                
                    Thy pale and pearly cheek was never made
                    To crimson with a faint false-hearted shame;
                    Thou didst not shrink,—of bitter tongues afraid,
                    Who hunt in packs the object of their blame;
                    To Thee the sad denial still held true,
                    For from thine own good thoughts thy heart its mercy drew.
                
                
                    And, though my faint and tributary rhymes
                    Add nothing to the glory of thy day,
                    Yet every Poet hopes that after-times
                    Shall set some value on his votive lay,—
                    And I would fain one gentle deed record
                    Among the many such with which thy life is stored.
                
                
                    So, when these lines, made in a mournful hour,
                    Are idly open'd to the Stranger's eye,
                    A dream of THEE, aroused by Fancy's power,
                    Shall be the first to wander floating by;
                    And they who never saw thy lovely face,
                    Shall pause,—to conjure up a vision of its grace!
                
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                    
                        Poems
                    
                        THE DREAM.
                        
                            
                            THE DREAM.
                            
                                'TWAS summer eve; the changeful beams
                                    still play'd
                                On the fir-bark and through the beechen shade;
                                Still with soft crimson glow'd each floating cloud;
                                Still the stream glitter'd where the willow bow'd;
                                Still the pale moon sate silent and alone,
                                Nor yet the stars had rallied round her throne;
                                Those diamond courtiers, who, while yet the West
                                Wears the red shield above his dying breast,
                                Dare not assume the loss they all desire,
                                Nor pay their homage to the fainter fire,
                                But wait in trembling till the Sun's fair light
                                Fading, shall leave them free to welcome Night!
                            
                            
                                So when some Chief, whose name through realms
                                    afar
                                Was still the watchword of succesful war,
                                
                                Met by the fatal hour which waits for all,
                                Is, on the field he rallied, forced to fall,
                                The conquerors pause to watch his parting breath,
                                Awed by the terrors of that mighty death;
                                Nor dare the meed of victory to claim,
                                Nor lift the standard to a meaner name,
                                Till every spark of soul hath ebb'd away,
                                And leaves what was a hero, common clay.
                            
                            
                                Oh! Twilight! Spirit that dost render birth
                                To dim enchantments; melting Heaven with Earth,
                                Leaving on craggy hills and rumning streams
                                A softness like the atmosphere of dreams;
                                Thy hour to all is welcome! Faint and sweet
                                Thy light falls round the peasant's homeward feet,
                                Who, slow returning from his task of toil,
                                Sees the low sunset gild the cultured soil,
                                And, tho' such radliance round him brightly glows,
                                Marks the small spark his cottage window throws.
                                Still as his heart forestals his weary pace,
                                Fondly he dreams of each familiar face,
                                Recalls the treasures of his narrow life,
                                His rosy children, and his sunburnt wife,
                                
                                To whom his coming is the chief event
                                Of simple days in cheerful labour spent.
                                The rich man's chariot hath gone whirling past,
                                And those poor cottagers have only cast
                                One careless glance on all that show of pride,
                                Then to their tasks turn'd quietly aside;
                                But him they wait for, him they welcome home,
                                Fond sentinels look forth to see him come;
                                The fagot sent for when the fire grew dim,
                                The frugal meal prepared, are all for him;
                                For him the watching of that sturdy boy,
                                For him those smiles of tenderness and joy,
                                For him,—who plods his sauntering way along,
                                Whistling the fragment of some village song!
                            
                            
                                Dear art thou to the lover, thou sweet light,
                                Fair fleeting sister of the mournful night!
                                As in impatient hope he stands apart,
                                Companion'd only by his beating heart,
                                And with an eager fancy oft beholds
                                The vision of a white robe's fluttering folds
                                Flit through the grove, and gain the open mead,
                                True to the hour by loving hearts agreed!
                                
                                At length she comes. The evening's holy grace
                                Mellows the glory of her radiant face;
                                The curtain of that daylight faint and pale
                                Hangs round her like the shrouding of a veil;
                                As, turning with a bashful timid thought,
                                From the dear welcome she herself hath sought,
                                Her shadowy profile drawn against the sky
                                Cheats, while it charms, his fond adoring eye.
                            
                            
                                Oh! dear to him, to all, since first the flowers
                                Of happy Eden's consecrated bowers
                                Heard the low breeze along the branches play,
                                And God's voice bless the cool hour of the day.1
                                For though that glorious Paradise be lost,
                                Though earth by blighting storms be roughly cross'd,
                                Though the long curse demands the tax of sin,
                                And the day's sorrows with the day begin,
                                That hour, once sacred to God's presence, still
                                Keeps itself calmer from the touch of ill,
                                The holiest hour of earth. Then toil doth cease—
                                Then from the yoke the oxen find release
                                Then man rests pausing from his many cares,
                                And the world teems with children's sunset prayers!
                                
                                Then innocent things seek out their natural rest,
                                The babe sinks slumbering on its mother's breast;
                                The birds beneath their leafy covering creep,
                                Yea, even the flowers fold up their buds in sleep;
                                And angels, floating by, on radiant wings,
                                Hear the low sounds the breeze of evening brings,
                                Catch the sweet incense as it floats along,
                                The infant's prayer, the mother's cradle-song,
                                And bear the holy gifts to worlds afar,
                                As thigs too sacred for this fallen star.
                            
                            
                                At such an hour, on such a summer night,
                                Silent and calm in its transparent light,
                                A widow'd parent watch'd her slumbering child,
                                On whose young face the sixteenth summer smiled.
                                Fair was the face she watch'd! Nor less, because
                                Beauty's perfection seem'd to make a pause,
                                And wait, on that smooth brow, some further touch,
                                Some spell from Time,—the great magician,—such
                                As calls the closed bud out of hidden gloom,
                                And bids it wake to glory, light, and bloom.
                                Girlish as yet, but with the gentle grace
                                Of a young fawn in its low resting-place,
                                
                                Her folded limbs were lying: from her hand
                                A group of wild-flowers,—Nature's brightest band,
                                Of all that laugh along the Summer fields,
                                Of all the sunny hedge-row freely yields,
                                Of all that in the wild-wood darkly hide,
                                Or on the thyme-bank wave in breezy pride,—
                                Show'd, that the weariness which closed in sleep
                                So tranquil, child-like, innocent, and deep,
                                Nor festal gaiety, nor toilsome hours,
                                Had brought; but, like a flower among the flowers,
                                She had been wandering 'neath the Summer sky,
                                Youth on her lip and gladness in her eye,
                                Twisting the wild rose from its native thorn,
                                And the blue scabious from the sunny corn;
                                Smiling and singing like a spirit fair
                                That walk'd the world, but had no dwelling there.
                                And still (as though their faintly-scented breath
                                Preserv'd a meek fidelity in death)
                                Each late imprison'd blossom fondly lingers
                                Within the touch of her unconscious fingers,
                                Though, languidly unclasp'd, that hand no more
                                Guards its possession of the rifled store.
                            
                            
                            
                                So wearily she lay; so sweetly slept;
                                So by her side fond watch the mother kept;
                                And, as above her gentle child she bent,
                                So like they seem'd in form and lineament,
                                You might have deem'd her face its shadow gave
                                To the clear mirror of a fountain's wave;
                                Only in this they differ'd; that, while one
                                Was warm and radiant as the Summer sun,
                                The other's smile had more a moonlight play,
                                For many tears had wept its glow away;
                                Yet was she fair; of loveliness so true,
                                That time, which faded, never could subdue:
                                And though the sleeper, like a half-blown rose,
                                Show'd bright as angels in her soft repose,
                                Though bluer veins ran through each snowy lid,
                                Curtaining sweet eyes, by long dark lashes hid—
                                Eyes that as yet had never learnt to weep,
                                But woke up smiling, like a child's, from sleep;
                                Though fainter lines were pencill'd on the brow,
                                Which cast soft shadow on the orbs below;
                                Though deeper colour flush'd her youthful cheek,
                                In its smooth curve more joyous and less meek,
                                And fuller seem'd the small and crimson mouth,
                                With teeth like those that glitter in the South,—
                                
                                She had but youth's superior brightness, such
                                As the skill'd painter gives with flattering touch
                                When he would picture every lingering grace
                                Which once shone brighter in some copied face;
                                And it was compliment, whene'er she smiled,
                                To say, “Thou'rt like thy mother, my fair child!”
                            
                            
                                Sweet is the image of the brooding dove!—
                                Holy as Heaven a mother's tender love!
                                The love of many prayers and many tears,
                                Which changes not with dim declining years,—
                                The only love which on this teeming earth
                                Asks no return from Passion's wayward birth;
                                The only love that, with a touch divine,
                                Displaces from the heart's most secret shrine
                                The idol SELF. Oh! prized beneath thy due
                                When life's untried affections all are new,—
                                Love, from whose calmer hope and holier rest
                                (Like a fledged bird, impatient of the nest)
                                The human heart, rebellious, springs to seek
                                Delights more vehement, in ties more weak;
                                How strange to us appears, in after-life,
                                That term of mingled carelessness and strife,
                                
                                When guardianship so gentle gall'd our pride,
                                When it was holiday to leave thy side,
                                When, with dull ignorance that would not learn,
                                We lost those hours that never can return—
                                Hours, whose most sweet communion Nature meant
                                Should be in confidence and kindness spent,
                                That we (hereafter mourning) might believe
                                In human faith, though all around deceive;
                                Might weigh against the sad and startling crowd
                                Of ills which wound the weak and chill the proud,
                                Of woes 'neath which (despite of stubborn will,
                                Philosophy's vain boast, and erring skill)
                                The strong heart downward like a willow bends,
                                Failure of love,—and treachery of friends,—
                                Our recollections of the undefiled,
                                The sainted tie, of parent and of child!
                            
                            
                                Oh! happy days! Oh years that glided by,
                                Scarce chronicled by one poor passing sigh!
                                When the dark storm sweeps past us, and the soul
                                Struggles with fainting strength to reach the goal;
                                When the false baits that lured us only cloy,
                                What would we give to grasp your vanish'd joy!
                                
                                From the cold quicksands of Life's treacherous shore
                                The backward light our anxious eyes explore,
                                Measure the miles our wandering feet have come,
                                Sinking heart-weary, far away from home,
                                Recall the voice that whisper'd love and peace,
                                The smile that bid our early sorrows cease,
                                And long to bow our grieving heads, and weep
                                Low on the gentle breast that lull'd us first to sleep!
                            
                            
                                Ah! bless'd are they for whom 'mid all their
                                    pains
                                That faithful and unalter'd love remains;
                                Who, Life wreck'd round them,—hunted from their rest,—
                                And, by all else forsaken or distress'd,—
                                Claim, in one heart, their sanctuary and shrine—
                                As I, my Mother, claim'd my place in thine!
                            
                            
                                Oft, since that hour, in sadness I retrace
                                My childhood's vision of thy calm sweet face;
                                Oft see thy form, its mournful beauty shrouded
                                In thy black weeds, and coif of widow's woe;
                                Thy dark expressive eyes all dim and clouded
                                By that deep wretchedness the lonely know:
                                
                                Stifling thy grief, to hear some weary task
                                Conn'd by unwilling lips, with listless air,
                                Hoarding thy means, lest future need might ask
                                More than the widow's pittance then could spare.
                                Hidden, forgotten by the great and gay,
                                Enduring sorrow, not by fits and starts,
                                But the long, self-denial, day by day,
                                Alone amidst thy brood of careless hearts!
                                Striving to guide, to teach, or to restrain
                                The young rebellious spirits crowding round,
                                Who saw not, kuew not, felt not for thy pain,
                                And could not comfort—yet had power to wound!
                                Ah! how my selfish heart, which since hath grown
                                Familiar with deep trials of its own,
                                With riper judgment looking to the past,
                                Regrets the careless days that flew so fast,
                                Stamps with remorse each wasted hour of time,
                                And darkens every folly into crime!
                            
                            
                                Warriors and statesmen have their meed of praise,
                                And what they do or suffer men record;
                                But the long sacrifice of woman's days
                                Passes without a thought—without a word;
                                
                                And many a holy struggle for the sake
                                Of duties sttenily, faithfully fulfill'd,—
                                For which the anxious mind must watch and wake,
                                And the strong feelings of the heart be still'd—
                                Goes by unheeded as the summer wind,
                                And leaves no memory and no trace behind!
                                Yet, it may be, more lofty courage dwells
                                In one meek heart which braves an adverse fate,
                                Than his, whose ardent soul indignant swells
                                Warm'd by the fight, or cheer'd through high
                                    debate:
                                The Soldier dies surrounded;—could he live
                                Alone to suffer, and alone to strive?
                            
                            
                                Answer, ye graves, whose suicidal gloom
                                Shows deeper horror than a common tomb!
                                Who sleep within? The men who would evade
                                An unseen lot of which they felt afraid.
                                Embarrassment of means, which work'd annoy,—
                                A past remorse,—a future blank of joy,—
                                The sinful rashness of a blind despair,—
                                These were the strokes which sent your victims there.
                            
                            
                                In many a village churchyard's simple grave,
                                Where all unmark'd the cypress-branches wave;
                                
                                In many a vault where Death could only claim
                                The brief inscription of a woman's name;
                                Of different ranks, and different degrees,
                                From daily labour to a life of ease,
                                (From the rich wife who through the weary day
                                Wept in her jewels, grief's unceasing prey,
                                To the poor soul who trudged o'er marsh and moor,
                                And with her baby begg'd from door to door,—)
                                Lie hearts, which, ere they found that last release,
                                Had lost all memory of the blessing “Peace;”
                                Hearts, whose long struggle through unpitied years
                                None saw but Him who marks the mourner's tears;
                                The obscurely noble! who evaded not
                                The woe which He had will'd should be their lot,
                                But nerved themselves to bear!
                            
                            
                                Of such art thou,
                                My Mother! With thy calm and holy brow,
                                And high devoted heart, which suffer'd still
                                Unmurmuring, through each degree of ill.
                                And, because Fate hath will'd that mine should be
                                A Poet's soul (at least in my degree),—
                                And that my verse would faintly shadow forth
                                What I have seen of pure unselfish worth,—
                                
                                Therefore I speak of Thee; that those who read
                                That trust in woman, which is still my creed,
                                Thy early-widow'd image may recall
                                And greet thy nature as the type of all!
                            
                            
                                Enough! With eyes of fond unwearied love
                                The Mother of my story watch'd above
                                Her sleeping child; and, as she views the grace
                                And blushing beauty of that girlish face,
                                Her thoughts roam back through change of time and tide,
                                Since first Heaven sent the blessing by her side.
                            
                            
                                In that sweet vision she again receives
                                The snow-white cradle, where that tiny head
                                Lay, like a small bud folded in its leaves,
                                Foster'd with dew by tears of fondness shed;
                                Each infantine event, each dangerous hour
                                Which pass'd with threatening o'er its fragile
                                    form,
                                Her hope, her anguish, as the tender flower
                                Bloom'd to the sun, or sicken'd in the storm,
                                In memory's magic mirror glide along,
                                And scarce she notes the different scene around,
                                And scarce her lips refrain the cradle-song
                                Which sooth'd that infant with its lulling sound!
                            
                            
                            
                                But the dream changes; quiet years roll on;
                                That dawn of frail existence fleets away,
                                And she beholds beneath the summer sun
                                A blessed sight; a little child at play.
                                The soft light falls upon its golden hair,
                                And shows a brow intelligently mild;
                                No more a cipher in this world of care,
                                Love cheers and chides that happy conscious
                                    child.
                                No more unheeding of her watchful love,
                                Pride to excel, its docile spirit stirs;
                                Regret and hope its tiny bosom move,
                                And looks of fondness brightly answer hers;
                                O'er the green meadow, and the broomy hill,
                                In restless joy it bounds and darts along;
                                Or through the breath of evening, low and still,
                                Carols with mirthful voice its welcome song.
                            
                            
                                Again the vision changes; from her view
                                The CHILD'S dear love and antic mirth are gone;
                                But, in their stead, with cheek of rose-leaf hue,
                                And fair slight form, and low and silvery tone,
                                Rises the sweetest spirit Thought can call
                                From memory's distant worlds—the fairy GIRL;
                                
                                Whose heart her childish pleasures still enthrall,
                                Whose unbound hair still floats in careless curl,
                                But in whose blue and meekly lifted eyes,
                                And in whose shy, though sweet and cordial smile,
                                And in whose changeful blushes, dimly rise
                                Shadows and lights that were not seen erewhile:
                                Shadows and lights that speak of woman's love,
                                Of all that makes or mars her fate below;
                                Mysterious prophecies, which Time must prove
                                More bright in glory, or more dark with woe!
                                And that soft vision also wanders by
                                Melting in fond and innocent smiles away,
                                Till the loved REAL meets the watchful eye
                                Of her who thus recall'd a former day;
                                The gentle daughter, for whose precious sake
                                Her widow'd heart had struggled with its pain.
                                And still through lonely grief refused to break,
                                Because that tie to Earth did yet
                                    remain.
                                Now, as she fondly gazed, a few meek tears
                                Stole down her cheek; for she that sliunber'd
                                    there,
                                The beautiful, the loved of many years.
                                A bride betroth'd must leave her fostering care;
                                Woo'd in another's home apart to dwell.—
                                Oh! might that other love but half as well!
                            
                            
                            
                                As if the mournful wish had touch'd her heart,
                                The slumbering maiden woke, with sudden start;
                                Turn'd, with a dazzled and intense surprise,
                                On that fond face her bright, bewilder'd eyes;
                                Gazed round on each familiar object near,
                                As though she doubted yet if sense was clear;
                                Cover'd her brow and sigh'd, as though to wake
                                Had power some spell of happy thought to break;
                                Then murmur'd, in a low and earnest tone,
                                “Oh! is that blessed dream for ever gone?”
                            
                            
                                Strange is the power of dreams! Who hath not
                                    felt,
                                When in the morning light such visions melt,
                                How the veil'd soul, though struggling to be free,
                                Ruled by that deep, unfathom'd mystery,
                                Wakes, haunted by the thoughts of good or ill,
                                Whose shadowy influence pursues us still?
                            
                            
                                Sometimes remorse doth weigh our spirits down;
                                Some crime committed earns Heaven's angriest frown;
                                Some awful sin, in which the tempted heart
                                Hath scarce, perhaps, forborne its waking part,
                                
                                Brings dreams of judgment; loud the thunders roll,
                                The heavens shrink blacken'd like a flaming scroll;
                                We faint, we die, beneath the avenging rod,
                                And vainly hide from our offended God.
                                For oh! though Fancy change our mortal lot,
                                And rule our slumbers, CONSCIENCE sleepeth not;
                                What strange sad dial, by its own true light,
                                Points to our thoughts, how dark soe'er the night,
                                Still by our pillow watchful guard it keeps,
                                And bids the sinner tremble while he sleeps.
                            
                            
                                Sometimes, with fearful dangers doom'd to cope,
                                'Reft of each wild and visionary hope,
                                Stabb'd with a thousand wounds, we struggle still,
                                The hand that tortures, powerless to kill.
                                Sometimes 'mid ocean storms, in fearful strife,
                                We stem the wave, and shrieking, gasp for life,
                                While crowding round us, faces rise and gleam,
                                Some known and loved, some, pictures of our dream;
                                High on the buoyant waters wildly toss'd—
                                Low in its foaming caverns darkly lost—
                                Those flitting forms the dangerous hour partake,
                                Cling to our aid, or suffer for our sake.
                                
                                Conscious of present life, the slumbering soul
                                Still floats us onward, as the billows roll,
                                Till, snatch'd from death, we seem to touch the strand,
                                Rise on the shoreward wave, and dash to land!
                                Alone we come: the forms whose wild array
                                Gleam'd round us while we struggled, fade away,—
                                We know not, reck not, who the danger shared,
                                But, vaguely dreaming, feel that we are spared.
                            
                            
                                Sometimes a grief, of fond affection born,
                                Gnaws at our heart, and bids us weep till morn;
                                Some anguish, copied from our waking fears,
                                Wakes the eternal fount of human tears,
                                Sends us to watch some vision'd bed of death,
                                Hold the faint hand, and catch the parting breath,
                                Where those we prized the most, and loved the best,
                                Seem darkly sinking to the grave's long rest;
                                Lo! in our arms they fade, they faint, they die,
                                Before our eyes the funeral train sweeps by;
                                We hear the orphan's sob—the widow's wail—
                                O'er our dim senses woeful thoughts prevail,
                                Till, with a burst of grief, the spell we break,
                                And, weeping for th' imagined loss, awake.
                            
                            
                            
                                Ah me! from dreams like these aroused at length,
                                How leaps the spirit to its former strength!
                                What memories crowd the newly conscious brain,
                                What gleams of rapture, and what starts of pain!
                                Till from the soul the heavy mists stand clear,
                                All wanes and fades that seem'd so darkly drear,
                                The sun's fair rays those shades of death destroy,
                                And passionate thankfuess and tears of joy
                                Swell at our hearts, as, gazing on his beam,
                                We start, and cry aloud, “Thank Heaven, 'twas but a dream!”
                            
                            
                                But there are visions of a fairer kind,
                                Thoughts fondly cherish'd by the slumbering mind,
                                Which, when they vanish from the waking brain,
                                We close our eyes, and long to dream again.
                                Their dim voice calls to our forsaken side
                                Those who betray'd us, seeming true and tried;
                                Those whom the fast receding waves of time
                                Have floated from us; those who in the prime
                                And glory of our young life's eagle flight
                                Shone round like rays, encircling us with light,
                                And gave the bright similitude of truth
                                To fair illusions—vanish'd with our youth.
                                
                                They bring again the tryst of early love,
                                (That passionate hope, all other hopes above!)
                                Bid the pale hair, long shrouded in the grave,
                                Round the young head in floating ringlets wave,
                                And fill the air with echoes. Gentle words,
                                Low laughter, and the sing of sweet birds,
                                Come round us then; and drooping of light boughs,
                                Whose shadow could not cool our burning brows,
                                And lilac-blossoms, scenting the warm air,
                                And long laburnums, fragile, bright, and fair;
                                And murmuring breezes through the green leaves straying,
                                And rippling waters in the sunshine playing,
                                All that around our slumbering sense can fling
                                The glory of some half-forgotten spring!
                                They bring again the fond approving gaze
                                Of old true friends, who mingled love with praise;
                                When Fame (that cold bright guiding-star below)
                                Took from affection's light a borrow'd glow,—
                                And, strong in all the might of earnest thought,
                                Through the long studious night untired we wrought,
                                That others might the morning hour beguile,
                                With the fond triumph of their wondering smile.
                                What though those dear approving smiles be gone,
                                What though we strive neglected and alone,
                                
                                What though no voice now mourns our hope's
                                    alloy,
                                Nor in the hour of triumph gives us joy?
                                In dreams the days return when this was not,
                                When strong affection sooth'd our toilsome lot:
                                Cheer'd, loved, admonish'd, lauded, we aspire,
                                And the sick soul regains its former fire.
                            
                            
                                Beneath the influence of this fond spell,
                                Happy, contented, bless'd, we seem to dwell;
                                Sweet faces shine with love's own tender ray,
                                Which frown, or coldly turn from us, by day;
                                The lonely orphan hears a parent's voice;
                                Sad childless mothers once again rejoice;
                                The poor deserted seems a happy bride;
                                And the long parted wander side by side.
                            
                            
                                Ah, vain deceit! Awaking with a start,
                                Sick grow the beatings of the troubled heart;
                                Silence, like some dark mantle, drops around,
                                Quenching th' imagined voice's welcome sound;
                                Again the soul repeats its old farewells,
                                Again recalls sad hours and funeral knells;
                                
                                Again, as daylight opens on their view,
                                The orplan shrieks, the mother mourns anew;
                                Till clear we feel, as fades the morning star,
                                How left, how lonely, how oppres'd we are!
                            
                            
                                And other dreams exist, more vague and bright
                                Than MEMORY ever brought to cheer the night;—
                                Most to the young and happy do they come,
                                To those who know no shelter but of home;
                                To those of whom the inspired writer spoke,
                                When from his lips the words prophetic broke,
                                Which (conscious of the strong and credulous spell
                                Experience only in the heart can quell)
                                Promised the nearer glimpse of perfect truth
                                Not to cold wisdom, but to fervent youth;
                                Each, in their measure, caught its fitful gleams,—
                                The young saw visions, and the old dream'd dreams.2
                            
                            
                                The young! Oh! what should wandering fancy bring
                                In life's first spring-time but the thoughts of spring?
                                Worlds without winter, blooming amaranth bowers,
                                Garlands of brightness wreath'd from changeless flowers;
                                
                                Where shapes like angels wander to and fro,
                                Unwing,'d, but glorious, in the noontide glow,
                                Which steeps the hills, the dales, the earth, the sea,
                                In one soft flood of golden majesty.
                                In this world,—so create,—no sighs nor tears,—
                                No sadness brought with lapse of varying years,
                                No cold betrayal of the trusting heart,—
                                No knitting up of love fore-doom'd to part,—
                                No pain, deformity, nor pale disease,—
                                No wars,—no tyranny,—no fears that freeze
                                The rapid current of the restless blood,—
                                Nor effort scorn'd,—nor act misunderstood,—
                                No dark remorse for ever-haunting sin,—
                                But all at peace without—at rest within;
                                And hopes which gild Thought's wildest waking hours,
                                Scatter'd around us carelessly as flowers.
                            
                            
                                Oh! Paradise, in vain dilist thou depart;
                                Thine image still is stamp'd on every heart!
                                Though mourning man in vain may seek to trace
                                The site of that which was his dwelling-place,
                                Though the four glittering rivers now divide
                                No realms of beauty with their rolling tide, 3
                                
                                Each several life yet opens with the view
                                Of that unblighted world where Adam drew
                                The breath of being: in each several mind,
                                However cramp'd, and fetter'd, and confined,
                                The innate power of beauty folded lies,
                                And, like a bud beneath the summer skies,
                                Blooms out in youth through many a radiant day,
                                Though in life's winter frost it dies away.
                            
                            
                                From such a vision, bright with all the fame
                                Her youth, her innocence, her hope, could frame,
                                The maiden woke: and, when her shadowy gaze
                                Had lost the dazzled look of wild amaze
                                Turn'd on her mother when she first awoke,
                                Thus to her questioning glanee she answering spoke:—
                            
                            
                                “Methought, oh! gentle Mother, by thy side
                                I dwelt no more as now, but through a wide
                                And sweet world wander'd; nor even then alone;
                                For ever in that dream's soft light stood one,—
                                I know not who,—yet most familiar seem'd
                                The fond companionship of which I dream'd!
                                
                                A Brother's love, is but a name to me;
                                A Father's, brighten'd not my infancy;
                                To me, in childhood's years, no stranger's face
                                Took, from long habit, friendship's holy grace;
                                My life hath still been lone, and needed not,
                                Heaven knows, more perfect love than was my lot
                                In thy dear heart: how dream'd I then, sweet Mother,
                                Of any love but thine, who knew no other?
                            
                            
                                “We seem'd, this shadow and myself, to be
                                Together by the blue and boundless sea:
                                No settled home was present to my thought—
                                No other form my clouded fancy brought;
                                This one Familiar Presence still beguiled
                                My every thought, and look'd on me and smiled.
                                Fair stretch'd in beauty lay the glittering strand,
                                With low green copses sloping from the land;
                                And tangled underwood, and sunny fern,
                                And flowers whose humble names none cared to learn,
                                Smail starry wild flowers, white and gold and blue,
                                With leaves turn'd crimson by th' autumnal hue,
                                Bask'd in the fervour of the noontide glow,
                                Whose hot rays pierced the thirsty roots below.
                                
                                The floating nautilus rose clear and pale,
                                As though a spirit trimm'd its fairy sail,
                                White and transparent; and beyond it gleam'd
                                Such light as never yet on Ocean beam'd:
                                And pink-lipp'd shells, and many-colour'd weeds,
                                And long brown bulbous things likc jasper beads,
                                And glistening pearls in beauty faint and fair,
                                And all things strange, and wonderful, and rare,
                                Whose true existence travellers make known,
                                Seem'd scatter'd there, and easily my own.
                                And then we wove our ciphers in the sands,
                                All fondly intertwined by loving hands;
                                And laugh'd to see the rustling snow-white spray
                                Creep o'er the names, and wash their trace away.
                                And the storm came not, though the white foam curl'd
                                In lines of brightness far along the coast;
                                Though many a ship, with swelling sails unfurl'd,
                                From the mid-sea to sheltering haven cross'd;
                                Though the wild billows heaved, and rose, and broke,
                                One o'er the other with a restless sound,
                                And the deep spirit of the wind awoke,
                                Ruffling in wrath each glassy verdant mound;
                                While onward roll'd that army of huge waves,
                                Until the foremost, with exulting roar,
                                
                                Rose, proudly crested, o'er his brother slaves,
                                And dash'd triumphant on the groaning shore!
                                For then the Moon rose up, Night's mournful Queen,
                                ‘Walking with white feet o'er the troubled Sea,’
                                And all grew still again, as she had been
                                Heaven's messenger to bring Tranquillity;
                                Till, pale and tender, on the glistening main
                                She sank and smiled like one who loves in vain.
                                And still we linger'd by that shadowy strand,
                                Happy, yet full of thought, hand link'd in hand;
                                The hush'd waves rippling softly at our feet,
                                The night-breeze freshening o'er the Summer's heat;
                                With our hearts beating, and our gazing eyes
                                Fix'd on the star-light of those deep blue skies,
                                Blessing ‘the year, the hour, the place, the time;’ 4
                                While sounded, faint and far, some turret's midnight chime.
                            
                            
                                “It pass'd, that vision of the Ocean's might!
                                I know not how, for in my slumbering mind
                                There was no movement, all was shifting light,
                                Through which we floated with the wandering wind;
                                And, still together, in a different scene,
                                We look'd on England's woodland, fresh and green.
                            
                            
                            
                                “No perfume of the cultured rose was there,
                                Wooing the senses with its garden smell,—
                                Nor snow-white lily,—call'd so proudly fir,
                                Though by the poor man's cot she loves to dwell,
                                Nor finds his little garden scant of room
                                To bid her stately buds in beauty bloom;—
                                Nor jasmin, with her pale stars shining through
                                The myrtle darkness of her leaf's green hue,—
                                Nor heliotrope, whose grey and heavy wreath
                                Mimics the orchard blossoms' fruity breath,—
                                Nor clustering dahlia, with its scentless flowers
                                Cheating the heart through autumn's faded hours,—
                                Nor bright chrysanthimum, whose train'd array
                                Still makes the rich man's winter path look gay,
                                And bows its hardy head when wild winds blow,
                                To free its petals from the fallen snow;—
                                Nor yet carnation;”—
                                (Thou, beloved of all
                                The plants that thrive at Art or Nature's call,
                                By one who greets thee with a weary sigh
                                As the dear friend of happy days gone by;
                                By one who names thee last, but loves thee first,
                                Of all the flowers a garden ever nursed;
                                
                                The mute remembrancer and gentle token
                                Of links which heavy hands have roughly broken,
                                Welcomed through many a Summer with the same
                                Unalter'd gladness as when first ye came,
                                And welcomed still, though—as in later years
                                We often welcome pleasant things—with tears!)
                            
                            
                                I wander! In the Dream these had no place,—
                                Nor Sorrow:—all was Nature's freshest grace.
                            
                            
                                “There, wild geranium, with its woolly stem
                                And aromatic breath, perfumed the glade;
                                And fairy speedwell, like some sapphire gem,
                                Lighted with purple sparks the hedge-row's shade;
                                And woodbine, with her tinted calyxes,
                                And dog-rose, glistening with the dews of morn,
                                And tangled wreaths of tufted clematis,
                                Whose blossoms pale the careless eye may scorn,
                                (As green and light her fairy mantles fiLll
                                To hide the rough hedge or the crumbling wall,)
                                But in whose breast the laden wild-bees dive
                                For the best riches of their teeming hive:
                            
                            
                            
                                “There, sprang the sunny cricket; there, was
                                    spread
                                The fragile silver of the spider's thread,
                                Stretching from blade to blade of emerald grass,
                                Unbroken, till some human footstep pass;
                                There, by the rippling stream that murmur'd on,
                                Now seen, now hidden—half in light, half Sun—
                                The darting dragon-fly, with sudden gleam,
                                Shot, as it went, a gold and purple beam;
                                And the fish leap'd within the deeper pool,
                                And the green trees stretch'd out their branches cool,
                                Where many a bird hush'd in her peopled nest
                                The unfledged darlings of her feather'd breast,
                                Listening her mate's clear song, in that sweet grove
                                Where all around breathed happiness and love!
                            
                            
                                “And while we talk'd the summer hours flew fast,
                                As hours may fly, with those whose love is young;
                                Who fear no future, and who know no past,
                                Dating existence from the hope that sprung
                                Up in their hearts with such a sudden light,
                                That all beyond shows dark and blank as night.
                            
                            
                            
                                “Until methought we trod a wide flat heath,
                                Where yew and cypress darkly seem'd to wave
                                O'er countless tombs, so beautiful, that death
                                Seem'd here to make a garden of the grave!
                                All that is holy, tender, full of grace,
                                Was sculptured on the monuments around,
                                And many a line the musing eye could trace,
                                Which spoke unto the heart without a sound.
                                There lay the warrior and the son of song,
                                And there—in silence till the judgment-day—
                                The orator, whose all-persuading tongue
                                Had moved the nations with resistless sway:
                                There slept pale men whom science taught to climb
                                Restlessly upward all their labouring youth;
                                Who left, half conquer'd, secrets which in time
                                Burst on mankind in ripe and glorious truth.
                                He that had gazed upon the steadfast stars,
                                And could foretel the dark eclipse's birth,
                                And when red comets in their blazing cars
                                Should sweep above the awed and troubled earth:—
                                He that had sped brave vessels o'er the seas,
                                Which swiftly bring the wanderer to his home,
                                Uncanvass'd ships, which move without a breeze,
                                Their bright wheels dashing through the ocean
                                    foam:—
                                
                                All, who in this life's bounded brief career
                                Had shone amongst, or served their fellow-men,
                                And left a name embalm'd in glory here,
                                Lay calmly buried on that magic plain.
                                And he who wander'd with me in my dream,
                                Told me their histories as we onward went,
                                Till the grave shone with such a hallow'd beam,
                                Such pleasure with their memory seem'd blent,
                                That, when we look'd to heaven, our upward eyes
                                With no funereal sadness mock'd the skies!
                            
                            
                                “Then, change of scene, and time, and place once more;
                                And by a Gothic window, richly bright,
                                Whose stain'd armorial hoarings on the floor
                                Flung the quaint tracery of their colour'd light,
                                We sate together: his most noble head
                                Bent o'er the storied tome of other days,
                                And still he commented on all we read,
                                And taught me what to love, and what to praise.
                                Then Spenser made the summer-day seem brief,
                                Or Milton sounded with a loftier song,
                                Then Cowper charm'd, with lays of gentle grief,
                                Or rough old Dryden roll'd the hour along.
                                
                                Or, in his varied beauty dearer still,
                                Sweet Shakspeare changed the world around at will;
                                And we forgot the sunshine of that room
                                To sit with Jacquez in the forest gloom;
                                To look abroad with Juliet's anxious eye
                                For her boy-lover 'neath the moonlight sky;
                                Stand with Macbeth upon the haunted heath,
                                Or weep for gentle Desdemona's death;
                                Watch, on bright Cydnus' wave, the glittering sheen
                                And silken sails of Egypt's wanton Queen;
                                Or roam with Ariel through that island strange
                                Where spirits, and not men, were wont to range,
                                Still struggling on through brake, and bush, and hollow,
                                Hearing that sweet voice calling—‘Follow! follow!’
                            
                            
                                “Nor were there wanting lays of other lands,
                                For these were all familiar in his hands:
                                And Dante's dream of horror work'd its spell,—
                                And Petrarch's sadness on our bosoms fell,—
                                And prison'd Tasso's—he, the coldly-loved,
                                The madly-loving! he, so deeply proved
                                By many a year of darkness, like the grave,
                                For her who dared not plead, or would not save,5
                                
                                For her who thought the poet's suit brought shame,
                                Whose passion hath immortalized her name!
                                And Egmont, with his noble heart betray'd,—
                                And Carlos, haunted by a murder'd shade,—
                                And Faust's strange legend, sweet and wondrous wild,
                                Stole many a tear:—Creation's loveliest child!
                                Guileless, ensnared, and tempted Margaret,
                                Who could peruse thy fate with eyes unwet?
                            
                            
                                “Then, through the lands we read of, far away,
                                The vision led me all a summer's day:
                                And we look'd round on southern Italy,
                                Where her dark head the graceful cypress rears
                                In arrowy straightness and soft majesty,
                                And the sun's face a mellower glory wears;
                                Bringing, where'er his warm light richly shines,
                                Sweet odours from the gum-distilling pines;
                                And casting o'er white palaces a glow,
                                Like morning's hue on mountain-peaks of snow.
                            
                            
                                “Those palaces! how fair their columns rose!
                                Their courts, cool fountains, and wide porticos!
                                And ballustraded roofs, whose very form
                                Told what an unknown stranger was the storm!
                                
                                In one of these we dwelt: its painted walls
                                A master's hand had been employ'd to trace;
                                Its long cool range of shadowy marble halls
                                Was fill'd with statues of most living grace;
                                While on its ceilings roll'd the fiery car
                                Of the bright day-god, chasing night afar,—
                                Or Jove's young favourite, toward Olympus' height
                                Soar'd with the Eagle's dark majestic flight,—
                                Or fair Apollo's harp seem'd freshly strung,
                                All heaven group'd round him, listening while he sung.
                            
                            
                                “So, in the garden's plann'd and planted bound
                                All wore the aspect of enchanted ground;
                                Thick orange-groves, close arching over head,
                                Shelter'd the paths our footsteps loved to tread;
                                Or ilex-trees shut out, with shadow sweet,
                                Th' oppressive splendour of the noontide heat.
                                Through the bright vista, at each varying turn,
                                Gleam'd the white statue, or the graceful urn;
                                And, paved with many a curved and twisted line
                                Of fair Mosaic's strange and quaint design,
                                Terrace on terrace rose, with steep so slight,
                                That scarce the pausing eye inquired the height,
                                
                                Till stretch'd beneath in far perspective lay
                                The glittering city and the deep blue bay!
                                Then as we turn'd again to groves and bowers,
                                (Rich with the perfume of a thousand flowers,)
                                The sultry day was cheated of its force
                                By the sweet winding of some streamlet's course:
                                From sculptured arch, and ornamented walls,
                                Rippled a thousand tiny waterfalls,
                                While here and there an open basin gave
                                Rest to the eye and freshness to the wave;
                                Here, high above the imprison'd waters, stood
                                Some imaged Naïad, guardian of the flood;
                                There, in a cool and grotto-like repose,
                                The sea-born goddess from her shell arose;
                                Or river-god his fertile urn display'd,
                                Gushing at distance through the lone arcade,—
                                Or Triton, lifting his wild conch on high,
                                Spouted the silver tribute to the sky,—
                                Or, lovelier still, (because to Nature true,
                                Even in the thought creative genius drew,)
                                Some statue-nymph, her bath of beauty o'er,
                                Stood gently bending by the rocky shore,
                                And, like Bologna's sweet and graceful dream,
                                From her moist hair wrung out the living stream. 6
                            
                            
                            
                                “Bright was the spot! and still we linger'd on
                                Unwearied, till the summer-day was done;
                                Till He, who, when the morning dew was wet,
                                In glory rose—in equal glory set.
                                Fair sank his light, unclouded to the last,
                                And o'er that land its glow of beauty cast;
                                And the sweet breath of evening air went forth
                                To cool the bosom of the fainting earth;
                                To bid the pale-leaved olives lightly wave
                                Upon their seaward slope (whose waters lave
                                With listless gentleness the golden strand,
                                And scarcely leave, and scarce return to land);
                                Or with its wings of freshness, wandering round,
                                Visit the heights with many a villa crown'd,
                                Where the still pine and cypress, side by side,
                                Look from their distant hills on Ocean's tide.
                            
                            
                                “The cypress and the pine! Ah, still I see
                                These thy green children, lovely Italy!
                                Nature's dear favourites, allow'd to wear
                                Their summer hue throughout the circling year!
                                And oft, when wandering out at even-time
                                To watch the sunsets of a colder clime,
                                
                                As the dim landscape fades and grows more faint,
                                Fancy's sweet power a different scene shall paint;
                                Enrich with deeper tints the colours given
                                To the pale beauty of our English heaven,—
                                Bid purple mountains rise among the clouds,
                                Or deem their mass some marble palace shrouds,—
                                Trace on the red horizon's level line,
                                In outlines dark, the high majestic pine,—
                                And hear, amid the groups of English trees,
                                His sister cypress murmuring to the breeze!
                            
                            
                                “Never again shall evening, sweet and still,
                                Gleam upon river, mountain, rock, or hill,—
                                Never again shall fresh and budding spring,
                                Or brighter summer, hue of beauty bring,
                                In this, the clime where 'tis my lot to dwell,
                                But shall recall, as by a magic spell,
                                Thy scenes, dear land of poetry and song!
                                Bid thy fair statues on my memory throng;
                                Thy glorious pictures gleam upon my sight
                                Like fleeting shadows o'er the summer light;
                                And send my haunted heart to dwell once more,
                                Glad and entranced by thy delightful shore—
                                
                                Thy shore, where rolls that blue and tideless sea,
                                Bright as thyself, thou radiant Italy!
                            
                            
                                “And there (where Beauty's spirit sure had birth,
                                Though she hath wander'd since upon the earth,
                                And scatter'd, as she pass'd, some sparks of thought,
                                Such as of old her sons of genius wrought,
                                To show what strength the immortal soul can wield
                                E'en here, in this its dark and narrow field,
                                And fill us with a fond inquiring thirst
                                To see that land which claim'd her triumphs first)
                                Music was brought—with soft impressive power—
                                To fill with varying joy the varying hour.
                                We welcomed it; for welcome still to all
                                It comes, in cottage, court, or lordly hall;
                                And in the long bright summer evenings, oft
                                We sate and listened to some measure soft
                                From many instruments; or, faint and lone,
                                (Touch'd by his gentle hand, or by my own,)
                                The little lute its chorded notes would send
                                Tender and clear; and with our voices blend
                                Cadence so true, that, when the breeze swept by,
                                One mingled echo floated on its sigh!
                            
                            
                            
                                “And still as day by day we saw depart,
                                I was the living idol of his heart:
                                How to make joy a portion of the air
                                That breathed around me, seem'd his only care.
                                For me the harp was strung, the page was turn'd;
                                For me the morning rose, the sunset burn'd;
                                For me the Spring put on her verdant suit;
                                For me the Summer flower, the Autumn fruit;
                                The very world seem'd mine, so mighty strove
                                For my contentment, that enduring love.
                            
                            
                                “I see him still, dear mother! Still I hear
                                That voice so deeply soft, so strangely clear;
                                Still in the air wild wandering echoes float,
                                And bring my dream's sweet music note for note!
                                Oh! shall those sounds no more my fancy bless,
                                Which fill my heart, and on my memory press?
                                Shall I no more those sunset clouds behold,
                                Floating like bright transparent thrones of gold?
                                The skies, the seas, the hills of glorious blue;
                                The glades and groves, with glories shining through;
                                The bands of red and purple, richly seen
                                Athwart the sky of pale, faint, gem-like green;
                                
                                When the breeze slept, the earth lay hush'd and still,
                                When the low sun sank slanting from the hill,
                                And slow and amber-tinged the moon uprose,
                                To watch his farewell hour in glory close?
                                Is all that radiance past—gone by for ever—
                                And must there in its stead for ever be
                                The grey, sad sky, the cold and clouded river,
                                And dismal dwellings by the wintry sea?
                                E'er half a summer, altering day by day,
                                In fickle brightness, here, hath pass'd away!
                                And was that form (whose love might still sustain)
                                Nought but a vapour of the dreaming brain?—
                                Would I had slept for ever!”
                            
                            
                                Sad she sigh'd;
                                To whom the mournful mother thus replied:—
                            
                            
                                “Upbraid not Heaven, whose wisdom thus would rule
                                A world whose changes are the soul's best school:
                                All dream like thee, and 'tis for Mercy's sake
                                That those who dream the wildest, soonest wake;
                                All deem Perfection's system would be found
                                In giving earthly sense no stint or bound;
                                All look for happiness beneath the sun,
                                And each expects what God hath given to none.
                            
                            
                            
                                “In what an idle luxury of joy
                                Would thy spoil'd heart its useless hours employ!
                                In what a selfish loneliness of light
                                Wouldst thou exist, read we thy dream aright!
                                How hath thy sleeping spirit broke the chain
                                Which knits thy human lot to other's pain,
                                And made this world of peopled millions seem
                                For thee and for the lover of thy dream!
                            
                            
                                “Think not my heart with cold indifference heard
                                The various feelings which in thine have stirr'd,
                                Or that its sad and weary currents know
                                Faint sympathy, except for human woe:
                                Well have the dormant echoes of my breast
                                Answer'd the joys thy gentle voice express'd;
                                Conjured a vision of the stately mate
                                With whom the flattering vision link'd thy fate;
                                And follow'd thee through grove and woodland wild,
                                Where so much natural beauty round thee smiled.
                            
                            
                                “What man so worldly-wise, or chill'd by age,
                                Who, bending o'er the faint descriptive page,
                                
                                Recals not such a scene in some falr nook—
                                (Whereon his eyes, perchance, no more shall look;)
                                Some hawthorn copse, some gnarl'd majestic tree,
                                The favourite play-place of his infancy?
                                Who has not felt for Cowper's sweet lament, 7
                                When twelve years' course their cruel change had sent;
                                When his fell'd poplars gave no further shade,
                                And low on earth the blackbird's nest was laid;
                                When in a desert sunshine, bare and blank,
                                Lay the green field and river's mossy bank;
                                And melody of bird or branch no more
                                Rose with the breeze that swept along the shore?
                            
                            
                                “Few are the hearts, (nor theirs of kindliest
                                    frame,)
                                On whom fair Nature holds not such a claim;
                                And oft, in after-life, some simple thing—
                                A bank of primroses in early Spring—
                                The tender scent which hidden violets yield—
                                The sight of cowslips in a meadow-field—
                                Or young laburnum's pendant yellow chain—
                                May bring the favourite play-place back again!
                                Our youthful mates are gone; some dead, some changed,
                                With whom that pleasant spot was gladly ranged;
                                
                                Ourselves, perhaps, more alter'd e'en than they—
                                But there still blooms the blossom-showering May;
                                There still along the hedge-row's verdant line
                                The linnet sings, the thorny brambles twine;
                                Still in the copse a troop of merry elves
                                Shout—the gay image of our former selves;
                                And still, with sparkling eyes and eager hands,
                                Some rosy urchin high on tiptoe stands,
                                And plucks the ripest berries from the bough—
                                Which tempts a different generation now!
                            
                            
                                “What though no real beauty haunt that
                                    spot,
                                By graver minds beheld and noticed not?
                                Can we forget that once to our young eyes
                                It wore the aspect of a Paradise?
                                No; still around its hallow'd precinct lives
                                The fond mysterious charm that memory gives;
                                The man recals the feelings of the boy,
                                And clothes the meanest flower with freshness and with joy.
                            
                            
                                “Nor think by older hearts forgotten quite
                                Love's whisper'd words; youth's sweet and strange delight!
                                
                                They live—though after-memories fade away;
                                They live—to cheer life's slow declining day;
                                Haunting the widow by her lonely hearth,
                                As, meekly smiling at her childrcn's mirth,
                                She spreads her fair thin hands towards the fire,
                                To seek the warmth their slacken'd veins require:
                                Or gladdening her to whom Heaven's mercy spares
                                Her old companion with his silver hairs;
                                And while he dozes—changed, and dull, and weak—
                                And his hush'd grandchild signs, but dares not speak,—
                                Bidding her watch, with many a tender smile,
                                The wither'd form which slumbers all the while.
                            
                            
                                “Yes! sweet the voice of those we loved! the tone
                                Which cheers our memory as we sit alone,
                                And will not leave us; the o'er-mastering force,
                                Whose under-current's strange and hidden course
                                Bids some chance word, by colder hearts forgot,
                                Return—and still return—yet weary not
                                The ear which wooes its sameness! How, when Death
                                Hath stopp'd with ruthless hand some precious breath,
                                The memory of the voice he hath destroy'd
                                Lives in our souls, as in an aching void!
                                
                                How, through the varying fate of after-years,
                                When stifled sorrow weeps but casual tears,
                                If some stray tone seem like the voice we knew,
                                The heart leaps up with answer faint and true!
                                Greeting again that sweet, long-vanish'd sound,
                                As, in earth's nooks of ever-haunted ground,
                                Strange accident, or man's capricious will,
                                Wakes the lone echoes, and they answer still!
                            
                            
                                “Oh! what a shallow fable cheats the age,
                                When the lost lover, on the motley stage,
                                Wrapp'd from his mistress in some quaint disguise,
                                Deceives her ear, because he cheats her eyes!
                                Rather, if all could fade which charm'd us first,—
                                If, by some magic stroke, some plague-spot cursed,
                                All outward semblance left the form beloved
                                A wreck unrecognised, and half disproved,
                                At the dear sound of that familiar voice
                                Her waken'd heart should tremble and rejoice,
                                Leap to its faith at once,—and spurn the doubt
                                Which, on such showing, barr'd his welcome out!
                            
                            
                            
                                “And if even words are sweet, what, what
                                    is song,
                                When lips we love, the melody prolong?
                                How thrills the soul, and vibrates to that lay,
                                Swells with the glorious sound, or dies away!
                                How, to the cadence of the simplest words
                                That ever hung upon the wild harp's chords,
                                The breathless heart lies listening; as it felt
                                All life within it on that music dwelt,
                                And hush'd the beating pulse's rapid power
                                By its own will, for that enchanted hour!
                            
                            
                                “Ay! then to those who love the science
                                    well,
                                Music becomes a passion and a spell!
                                Music, the tender child of rudest times,
                                The gentle native of all lands and climes;
                                Who hymns alike man's cradle and his grave,
                                Lulls the low cot, or peals along the nave;
                                Cheers the poor peasant, who his native hills
                                With wild Tyrolean echoes sweetly fills;
                                Inspires the Indian's low monotonous chant,
                                Weaves skilful melodies for Luxury's haunt;
                                And still, through all these changes, lives the same,
                                Spirit without a home, without a name,
                                
                                Coming, where all is discord, strife, and sn,
                                To prove some innate harmony within
                                Our listening souls; and lull the heaving breast
                                With the dim vision of an unknown rest!
                            
                            
                                “But, dearest child, though many a joy be given
                                By the pure bounty of all-pitying Heaven,—
                                Though sweet emotions in our hearts have birth,
                                As flowers are spangled on the lap of earth,—
                                Though, with the flag of Hope and Triumph hung
                                High o'er our heads, we start when life is young,
                                And onward cheer'd, by sense, and sight, and sound,
                                Like a launch'd bark, we enter with a bound;
                                Yet must the dark cloud lour, the tempest fall,
                                And the same chance of shipwreck waits for all.
                                Happy are they who leave the harbouring land
                                Not for a summer voyage, hand in hand,
                                Pleasure's light slaves; but with an earnest eye
                                Exploring all the future of their sky;
                                That so, when Life's career at length is past,
                                To the right haven they may steer at last,
                                And safe from hidden rock, or open gale,
                                Lay by the oar, and furl the slacken'd sail,—
                                
                                To anchor deeply on that tranquil shore
                                Where vexing storms can never reach them more!
                            
                            
                                “Wouldst thou be singled out by partial Heaven
                                The ONE to whom a cloudless lot is given?
                                Look round the world, and see what fate is there,
                                Which justice can pronounce exempt from care:
                                Though bright they bloom to empty outward show,
                                There lurks in each some canker-worm of woe;
                                Still by some thorn the onward step is cross'd,
                                Nor least repining those who're envied most:
                                The poor have struggling, toil, and wounded pride,
                                Which seeks, and seeks in vain, its rags to hide;
                                The rich, cold jealousies, intrigues, and strife,
                                And heart-sick discontent which poisons life;
                                The loved are parted by the hand of Death,
                                The hated live to curse each other's breath:
                                The wealthy noble mourns the want of heirs;
                                While, each the object of incessant prayers,
                                Gay, hardy sons, around the widow's board,
                                With careless smiles devour her scanty hoard;
                                And hear no sorrow in her stifled sigh,
                                And see no terror in her anxious eye,—
                                
                                While she in fancy antedates the time
                                When, scatter'd far and wide in many a clime,
                                These heirs to nothing but their Father's name
                                Must earn their bread, and struggle hard for fame;
                                To sultry India sends her fair-hair'd boy—
                                Sees the dead desk another's youth employ—
                                And parts with one to sail the uncertain main,
                                Never perhaps on earth to meet again!
                            
                            
                                “Nor ev'n does Love, whose fresh and radiant beam
                                Gave added brightness to thy wandering dream,
                                Preserve from bitter touch of ills unknown,
                                But rather brings strange sorrows of its own.
                                Various the ways in which our souls are tried;
                                Love often fails where most our faith relied;
                                Some wayward heart may win, without a thought,
                                That which thine own by sacrifice had bought;
                                May carelessly aside the treasure cast,
                                And yet be madly worshipp'd to the last;
                                Whilst thou, forsaken, grieving, left to pine,
                                Vainly may'st claim his plighted faith as thine;
                                Vainly his idol's charms with thine compare,
                                And know thyself as young, as bright, as fair;
                                
                                Vainly in jealous pangs consume thy day,
                                And waste the sleepless night in tears away;
                                Vainly with forced indulgence strive to smile
                                In the cold world, heart-broken all the while,
                                Or from its glittering and unquiet crowd,
                                Thy brain on fire, thy spirit crush'd and bow'd,
                                Creep home unnoticed, there to weep alone,
                                Mock'd by a claim which gives thee not thine own,
                                Which leaves thee bound through all thy blighted youth
                                To him whose perjured soul hath broke its truth;
                                While the just world, beholding thee bereft,
                                Scorns—not his sin—but thee, for being left!
                            
                            
                                “Ah! never to the Sensualist appeal,
                                Nor deem his frozen bosom aught can feel.
                                Affection, root of all fond memories,
                                Which bids what once hath charm'd for ever please
                                He knows not: all thy beauty could inspire
                                Was but a sentiment of low desire:
                                If from thy check the roses hue be gone,
                                How should love stay which loved for that alone?
                                Or, if thy youthful face be still as bright
                                As when it first entranced his eager sight,
                                
                                Thou art the same; there is thy fault, thy
                                    crime,
                                Which fades the charms yet spared by rapid Time.
                                Talk to him of the happy days gone by,
                                Conceal'd aversion chills his shrinking eye:
                                While in thine agony thou still dost rave,
                                Impatient wishes doom thee to the grave;
                                And if his cold and selfish thought had power
                                T' accelerate the fatal final hour,
                                The silent murder were already done,
                                And thy white tomb would glitter in the sun.
                                What wouldst thou hold by? What is it to him
                                That for his sake thy weeping eyes are dim?
                                His pall'd and wearied senses rove apart,
                                And for his heart—thou never hadst his heart.
                            
                            
                                “True, there is better love, whose balance just
                                Mingles Soul's instinct with our grosser dust,
                                And leaves affection, strengthening day by day,
                                Firm to assault, impervious to decay.
                                To such, a star of hope thy love shall be
                                Whose stedfast light he still desires to see;
                                And age shall vainly mar thy beauty's grace,
                                Or wantons plot to steal into thy place,
                                
                                Or wild Temptation, from her hidden bowers,
                                Fling o'er his path her bright but poisonous flowers,—
                                Dearer to him than all who thus beguile,
                                Thy faded face, and thy familiar smile;
                                Thy glance, which still hath welcomed him for years
                                Now bright with gladness, and now dim with tears!
                                And if (for we are weak) division come
                                On wings of discord to that happy home,
                                Soon is the painful hour of anger past,
                                Too sharp, too strange an agony to last;
                                And, like some river's bright abundant tide
                                Which art or accident hath forced aside,
                                The well-springs of affection, gushing o'er,
                                Back to their natural channels flow once more.
                            
                            
                                “Ah! sad it is when one thus link'd departs!
                                When Death, that mighty severer of true hearts,
                                Sweeps through the halls so lately loud in mirth,
                                And leaves pale Sorrow weeping by the hearth!
                                Bitter it is to wander there alone,
                                To fill the vacant place, the empty chair,
                                With a dear vision of the loved one gone,
                                And start to see it vaguely melt in air!
                                
                                Bitter to find all joy that once hath been
                                Double its value when 'tis pass'd away,—
                                To feel the blow which Time should make less keen
                                Increase its burden each successive day,—
                                To need good counsel, and to miss the voice,
                                The ever trusted, and the ever true,
                                Whose tones were wont to cheer our faltering choice,
                                And show what holy Virtue bade us do,—
                                To bear deep wrong, and bow the widow'd head
                                In helpless anguish, no one to defend;
                                Or worse,—in lieu of him, the kindly dead,
                                Claim faint assistance from some lukewarm
                                    friend,—
                                Yet scarce perceive the extent of all our loss
                                Till the fresh tomb be green with gathering moss—
                                Till many a morn have met our sadden'd eyes
                                With none to say “Good morrow;”—many an eve
                                Sent its red glory through the tranquil skies,
                                Each bringing with it deeper cause to grieve!
                            
                            
                                “This is a destiny which may be thine—
                                The common grief: God will'd it should be mine:
                                Short was the course our happy love had run,
                                And hard it was to say ‘Thy will be done!’
                            
                            
                            
                                “Yet those whom man, not God, hath parted, know
                                A heavier pang, a more enduring woe;
                                No softening memory mingles with their tears,
                                Still the wound rankles on through dreary years,
                                Still the heart feels, in bitterest hours of blame,
                                It dares not curse the long-familiar name;
                                Still, vainly free, through many a cheerless day,
                                From weaker ties turns helplessly away,
                                Sick for the smiles that bless'd its home of yore,
                                The natural joys of life that come no more;
                                And, all bewildered by the abyss, whose gloom
                                Dark and impassable as is the tomb,
                                Lies stretch'd between the future and the past,—
                                Sinks into deep and cold despair at last.
                            
                            
                                “Heaven give thee poverty, disease, or death,
                                Each varied ill that waits on human breath,
                                Rather than bid thee linger out thy life
                                In the long toil of such unnatural strife.
                                To wander through the world unreconciled,
                                Heart weary as a spirit-broken child,
                                And think it were an hour of bliss like heaven
                                If thou could'st die—forgiving and forgiven,—
                                
                                Or with a feverish hope, of anguish born,
                                (Nerving thy mind to feel indigant scorn
                                Of all the cruel foes who 'twixt ye stand,
                                Holding thy heartstrngs with a reckless hand,)
                                Steal to his presence, now unseen so long,
                                And claim his mercy who hath dealt the wrong!
                                Into the aching depths of thy poor heart
                                Dive, as it were, even to the roots of pain,
                                And wrench up thoughts that tear thy soul apart,
                                And burn like fire through thy bewilder'd brain.
                                Clothe them in passionate words of wild appeal
                                To teach thy fellow-creature how to feel,—
                                Pray, weep, exhaust thyself in maddening tears,—
                                Recal the hopes, the influences of years,—
                                Kneel, dash thyself upon the senseless ground,
                                Writhe as the worm writhes with dividing wound,—
                                Invoke the heaven that knows thy sorrow's truth,
                                By all the softening memories of youth—
                                By every hope that cheer'd thine earlier day—
                                By every tear that washes wrath away—
                                By every old remembrance long gone by—
                                By every pang that makes thee yearn to die;
                                And learn at length how deep and stern a blow
                                Near hands can strike, and yet no pity show!
                            
                            
                            
                                “Oh! weak to suffer, savage to inflict,
                                Is man's commingling nature; hear him now
                                Some transient trial of his life depict,
                                Hear him in holy rites a suppliant bow;
                                See him shrink back from sickness and from pain,
                                And in his sorrow to his God complain;
                                ‘Remit my trespass, spare my sin,’ he cries,
                                ‘All-merciful, Almighty, and All-wise;
                                Quench this affliction's bitter whelming tide,
                                Draw out thy barbed arrow from my side:’—
                                —And rises from that mockery of prayer
                                To hale some brother-debtor to despair!
                            
                            
                                “May this be spared thee! Yet be sure, my child,
                                (Howe'er that dream thy fancy hath beguiled,)
                                Some sorrow lurks to cloud thy future fate;
                                Thy share of tears,—come early or come late,—
                                Must still be shed; and 'twere as vain a thing
                                To ask of Nature one perpetual spring
                                As to evade those sad autumnal hours,
                                Or deem thy path of life should bloom, all flowers.”
                            
                            
                            
                                She ceased: and that fair maiden heard the truth
                                With the fond passionate despair of youth,
                                Which, new to suffering, gives its sorrow vent
                                In outward signs and bursts of wild lament:—
                            
                            
                                “If this be so, then, mother, let me die
                                Ere yet the glow hath faded from my sky!
                                Let me die young; before the holy trust
                                In human kindness crumbles into dust;
                                Before I suffer what I have not earn'd,
                                Or see by treachery my truth return'd;
                                Before the love I live for, fades away;
                                Before the hopes I cherish'd most, decay;
                                Before the withering touch of fearful change
                                Makes some failliar face look cold and strange,
                                Or some dear heart close knitted to my own,
                                By perishing, hath left me more alone!
                                Though death be bitter, I can brave its pain
                                Better than all which threats if I remain:
                                While my soul, freed from ev'ry chance of ill,
                                Soars to that God whose high mysterious will
                                Sent me, foredoom'd to grief, with wandering feet,
                                To grope my way through all this fair deceit!”
                            
                            
                            
                                Her parent heard the words with grieved amaze,
                                And thus return'd, with calm reproving gaze:—
                            
                            
                                “Blaspheme not Heaven with rash impatient speech,
                                Nor deem, at thine own hour, its rest to reach,
                                Unhappy child! The full appointed time
                                Is His to choose; and when the sullen chime,
                                And deep-toned striking of the funeral bell,
                                Thy fate to earthly ears shall sadly tell,
                                Oh! may the death thou talk'st of as a boon,
                                Find thee prepared,—nor come even then too soon!
                            
                            
                                “True, ere thou meet'st that long and dreamless
                                    sleep,
                                Thy heart must ache—thy weary eyes must weep:
                                It is our human lot! The fairest child
                                That e'er on loving mother brightly smiled,—
                                Most watch'd, most tended—ere his eyelids close
                                Hath had his little share of infant woes,
                                And dies familiar with the sense of grief,
                                Though for all else his life hath been too brief!
                                But shall we therefore, murmuring against God,
                                Question the justice of his chastening rod,
                                And look to earthly joys as though they were
                                The prize immortal souls were given to share?
                            
                            
                            
                                “Oh! were such joys and this vain world alone
                                The term of human hope—where, where would be
                                The victims of some tyranny unknown,
                                Who sank, still conscious that the mind
                                    was free?
                                They that have lain in dungeons years on years,
                                No voice to cheer their darkness,—they whose pain
                                Of horrid torture wrung forth blood with tears,
                                Murder'd, perhaps, for some rapacious gain,—
                                They who have stood, bound to the martyr's stake,
                                While the sharp flames ate through the blistering
                                    skin,—
                                They that have bled for some high cause's sake,—
                                They that have perish'd for another's sin,
                                And from the scaffold to that God appeal'd
                                To whom the naked heart is all reveal'd,
                                Against the shortening of life's narrow span
                                By the blind rage and false decree of man?
                                And where obscurer sufferers—they who slept
                                And left no name on history's random page,—
                                But in God's book of reckoning, sternly kept,
                                Live on from year to year, from age to age?
                                The poor—the labouring poor! whose weary lives,
                                Through many a freezing night and hungry day,
                                Are a reproach to him who only strives
                                In luxury to waste his hours away,—
                                
                                The patient poor! whose insufficient means
                                Make sickness dreadful, yet by whose low bed
                                Oft in meek prayer some fellow-sufferer leans,
                                And trusts in Heaven while destitute of bread;
                                The workhouse orphan, left without a friend;
                                Or weak forsaken child of want and sin,
                                Whose helpless life begins, as it must end,
                                By men disputing who shall take it in;
                                Who clothe, who aid that spark to linger here,
                                Which for mysterious purpose God hath given
                                To struggle through a day of toil and fear,
                                And meet him—with the proudest—up in heaven!
                                These were, and are not:—shall we therefore deem
                                That they have vanish'd like a sleeper's dream?
                                Or that one half creation is to know
                                Luxurious joy, and others only woe,
                                And so go down into the common tomb,
                                With none to question their unequal doom?
                                Shall we give credit to a thought so fond?
                                Ah! no—the world beyond—the world beyond!
                                There, shall the desolate heart regain its own!
                                There, the oppress'd shall stand before God's throne!
                                There, when the tangled web is all explain'd,
                                Wrong suffer'd, pain inflicted, grief disdain'd,
                                
                                Man's proud mistaken judgments and false scorn
                                Shall melt like mists before uprising morn,
                                And holy truth stand forth serenely bright,
                                In the rich flood of God's eternal light!
                            
                            
                                “Then shall the Lazarus of the earth have rest—
                                The rich man judgment—and the grieving breast
                                Deep peace for ever. Therefore look thou not
                                So much to what on earth shall be thy lot,
                                As to thy fate hereafter,—to that day
                                When like a scroll this world shall pass away,
                                And what thou here hast done, or here enjoy'd,
                                Import but to thy soul:—all else destroy'd!
                            
                            
                                “And have thou faith in human nature still;
                                Though evil thoughts abound, and acts of ill;
                                Though innocence in sorrow shrouded be,
                                And tyranny's strong step walk bold and free!
                                For many a kindly generous deed is done
                                Which leaves no record underneath the sun—
                                Self-abnegating love and humble worth,
                                Which yet shall consecrate our sinful earth!
                                He that deals blame, and yet forgets to praise,
                                Who sets brief storms against long summer-days,
                                
                                Hath a sick judgment. Shall the usual joy
                                Be all forgot, and nought our minds employ,
                                Through the long course of ever-varying years,
                                But temporary pain and casual tears?
                                And shall we all condemn, and all distrust,
                                Because some men are false and some unjust?
                                Forbid it Heaven! far better 'twere to be
                                Dupe of the fond impossibility
                                Of light and radiance which thy vision gave
                                Than thus to live Suspicion's bitter slave.
                                Give credit to thy mortal brother's heart
                                For all the good that in thine own hath part,
                                And, cheerfully as honest prudence may,
                                Trust to his proffer'd hand's protecting stay:
                                For God, who made this teeming earth so full,
                                And made the proud dependant on the dull—
                                The strong upon the weak—thereby would show
                                One common bond should link us all below.
                            
                            
                                “And visit not with a severer scorn
                                Faults, whose deep root was with our nature born,
                                From which—though others woo'd thee just as vain—
                                Thou, differently tempted, didst abstain:
                                
                                Nor dwell on points of creed—assuming right
                                To judge how holy in his Maker's sight
                                Is he who at a different altar bends;
                                For hence have ris'n the bitterest feuds of friends,
                                The wildest wars of nations; age on age
                                Hath desecrated thus dark History's page;
                                And still (though not, perhaps, with fire and sword)
                                Reckless we raise ‘The banner of the Lord!’
                                Mock Heaven's calm mercy by the plea we make,
                                That all is done for gentle Jesus' sake,—
                                Disturb the consciences of weaker men,—
                                Employ the scholar's art, the bigot's pen,—
                                And rouse the wrathful and the spirit-proud
                                To language bitter, vehement, and loud,
                                Whose unconvincing fury wounds the ear,
                                And seeking, with some sharp and haughty sneer,
                                How best the opposing party may be stung,—
                                Pleads for Religion with a devil's tongue!
                            
                            
                                “Oh! shall God tolerate the meanest prayer
                                That humbly seeks his high supernal throne,
                                And man—presumptuous Pharisee—declare
                                His fellow's voice less welcome than his own?
                                
                                Is it a theme for wild and warring words
                                How best to satisfy the Maker's claim?
                                In rendering to the Lord what is the Lord's,
                                Doth not the thought of violence bring shame?
                                Think ye he gave the branching forest-tree
                                To furnish fagots for the funeral pyre?
                                Or bid his sunrise light the world, to see
                                Pale tortured victims perish there by fire?
                                No! oft on earth, dragg'd forth in pain to die,
                                The heretic may groan—the martyr bleed—
                                But, set before his Sovereign Judge on high,
                                'Tis man's offence condemns him, not his
                                    creed.
                                His first commandment was to worship Him;
                                His next—to love the creature He hath made:
                                How blind the eyes of those who read, how dim,
                                Who see not here religious fury stay'd!
                                From the proud half-fulfilment of his law
                                Sternly he turns away his awful face,
                                Nor will contentment from their service draw,
                                Who fail to grant a fellow-ceature grace.
                                Haply the days of martyrdom are past,
                                But still we see, without a visible end,
                                The bitter warfare of opinion last,
                                Tho' God hath will'd that man should be man's
                                    friend.
                                
                                Therefore do thou, e'er yet thy youthful heart
                                Be tinged with their revilings, safe retreat,
                                And in those fierce discussions bear no part,—
                                Odious in all—in woman most unmeet,—
                                But in the still dark night, and rising day,
                                Humbly collect thy thoughts, and humbly pray.
                            
                            
                                “And be not thou cast down, because thy lot
                                The glory of thy dream resembleth not.
                                Not for herself was woman first create,
                                Nor yet to be man's idol, but his mate.
                                Still from his birth his cradled bed she tends,
                                The first, the last, the faithfullest of friends;
                                Still finds her place in sickness or in woe,
                                Humble to comfort, strong to undergo;
                                Still in the depth of weeping sorrow tries
                                To watch his death-bed with her patient eyes!
                                And doubt not thou,—(although at times deceived,
                                Outraged, insulted, slander'd, crush'd, and grieved;
                                Too often made a victim or a toy,
                                With years of sorrow for an hour of joy;
                                Too oft forgot midst Pleasure's circling wiles,
                                Or only valued for her rosy smiles,—)
                                
                                That, in the frank and generous heart of man,
                                The place she holds accords with Heaven's high plan;
                                Still, if from wandering sin reclaim'd at all,
                                He sees in her the angel of recal;
                                Still, in the sad and serious hours of life,
                                Turns to the sister, mother, friend, or wife;
                                Views with a heart of fond and trustful pride
                                His faithful partner by his calm fireside;
                                And oft, when barr'd of Fortune's fickle grace,
                                Blank ruin stares him darkly in the face,
                                Leans his faint head upon her kindly breast,
                                And owns her power to soothe him into rest,—
                                Owns what the gift of woman's love is worth
                                To cheer his toils and trials upon earth!
                            
                            
                                “Sure it is much, this delegated power
                                To be consoler of man's heaviest hour!
                                The guardian angel of a life of care,
                                Allow'd to stand 'twixt him and his despair!
                                Such service may be made a holy task;
                                And more, 'twere vain to hope, and rash to ask.
                                Therefore, oh! loved and lovely, be content,
                                And take thy lot, with joy and sorrow blent.
                                
                                Judge none; yet let thy share of conduct be,
                                As knowing judgment shall be pass'd on thee
                                Here and hereafter; so, still undismay'd,
                                And guarded by thy sweet thoughts' tramquil shade,
                                Undazzled by the changeful rays which threw
                                Their light across thy path while life was new,
                                Thou shalt move sober on,—expecting less,
                                Therefore the more enjoying, happiness.”
                            
                            
                                There was a pause; then, with a tremulous smile,
                                The maiden turn'd and press'd her mother's hand.—
                                “Shall I not bear what thou hast borne e'erwhile?
                                Shall I, rebellious, Heaven's high will
                                    withstand?
                                No! cheerly on, my wandering path I'll take,
                                Nor fear the destiny I did not make:
                                Though earthly joy grow dim—though Pleasure waneth—
                                This thou hast taught thy child, that GOD remaineth!”
                            
                            
                                And from her mother's fond protecting side
                                She went into the world, a youthful bride.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                            NOTES.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 1.—Page 6.
                                        
                                            “And God's voice bless the cool hour of the day.”
                                        
                                        
                                            “AND they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in
                                                the garden in the cool of the day.”
                                            —Genesis iii. 8.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 2.—Page 25.
                                        
                                            “The young saw visions, and the old dream'd
                                                dreams.”
                                        
                                        
                                            “But this is that which was spoken by the prophet
                                                Joel: And it shall come to pass in the last days,
                                                saith God, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh:
                                                and your sons and your daughters shall phophesy, and
                                                your young men shall see visions, and your old me
                                                shall dream dreams.”
                                            Acts ii.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 3.—Page 26.
                                        
                                            “Tho' the four glittering rivers now
                                                divide
                                            No realms of beauty with their rolling tide.”
                                        
                                        It should seem that Paradise lay on the confluent stream
                                            of the rivers Euphrates and Tigris, but principally on
                                            the eastern bank; which
                                            divided into two branches above the garden, and two more
                                            below it. From the description of these rivers by the
                                            ancient historians and geographers, Major Rennel
                                            collects that in ancient times they kept distinct
                                            courses to the sea, until the time of Alexander; though
                                            at no great distance of time afterwards they became
                                            united, and joined the sea in a collective
                                        stream.
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 4.—Page 30.
                                        
                                            “Blessing ‘the year, the hour, the place, the
                                                time.’”
                                        
                                        See Petrarch's celebrated sonnet; that beautiful burst of
                                            passion and tenderness (which well might stagger the
                                            incredulity of those who doubt the real existence of his
                                            Laura and his love) beginning— 
                                                “Benedetto sia'l giorno, e'l mese, e l'anno
                                                E la stagione, e'l tempo, e l'ora, e'l punto
                                                E'l bel paese, e'l loco ov'io fui giunto
                                                Da duo begli occhi che legato m'hanno;”
                                             and called in the Italian edition “Effusione di
                                            piena allegrezza dello essersi di tale donna innamorato
                                            cotanto.”
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 5.—Page 36.
                                        
                                            “For her who dared not plead, or would not save.”
                                        
                                        Leonora D'Este. So various are the causes assigned for
                                            Tasso's imprisonment by his numerous biographers, that
                                            it is difficult to decide whether his capricious and
                                            tyrannical patron really believed in his imputed
                                            insanity, or was led to the gross injustice of confining
                                            him as a madman by a desire to divide his sister, at all
                                            hazards, from a suitor so humble, and yet so dangerous.
                                            Among Charnes, Serapi,
                                            Zuccala, and others, some assume the fact of the poet's
                                            madness, and ascribe it to religious doubts which seized
                                            on his mind at a time of great irritation and annoyance
                                            from various causes; but it is certain that Tasso
                                            himself connected his cruel detention with his love for
                                            the princess; that he addressed both her and her sister
                                            in an ode couched in the most moving and melancholy
                                            terms, and appealing to her pity; and that, in a letter
                                            to Scipio Gonzaga, describing his misery while in
                                            confinement, he expresses a bitter confidence that,
                                            could the princess behold with her own eyes the
                                            wretchedness to which he was reduced, she would “have
                                            compassion on him.”
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 6.—Page 39.
                                        
                                            “From her moist hair wrung out the living
                                                stream.”
                                        
                                        The beautiful statue, in bronze, by John of Bologna,
                                            intended to serve as a fountain, and representing a
                                            nymph wringing the water from her hair. This exquisite
                                            design has been lately copied from the original at
                                            Florence for Her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland, and
                                            will shortly be transported to England.
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 7.—Page 46.
                                        
                                            “Who has not felt for Cowper's sweet lament?”
                                        
                                        I shall perhaps be forgiven for transcribing entire one
                                            of the most perfect of Cowper's minor poems, though
                                            doubtless familiar to very many of my readers.
                                        
                                            
                                                “THE POPLAR FIELD.
                                                “The poplars are fell'd: farewell to the
                                                  shade,
                                                And the whispering sound of the cool
                                                  colonnade;
                                                The winds play no longer and sing in the
                                                  leaves,
                                                Nor Ouse on his bosom their image receives.
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                                “Twelve years have elapsed, since I last took a
                                                  view
                                                Of my favourite field, and the bank where they
                                                  grew;
                                                And now in the grass behold they are laid,
                                                And the tree is my seat, that once lent me a
                                                  shade.
                                            
                                            
                                                “The blackbird has fled to another retreat,
                                                Where the hazels afford him a screen from the
                                                  heat,
                                                And the scene where his melody charm'd me
                                                  before
                                                Resounds with his sweet-flowing ditty no
                                                  more.
                                            
                                            
                                                “My fugitive years are all hasting away,
                                                And I must ere long lie as lowly as they,
                                                With a turf on my breast, and a stone at my
                                                  head,
                                                Ere another such grove shall arise in its
                                                  stead.
                                            
                                            
                                                “'Tis a sight to engage me, if anything can,
                                                To muse on the perishing pleasures of man;
                                                Tho' his life be a dream, his enjoyments, I
                                                  see,
                                                Have a being less durable even than he.”
                                            
                                        
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE CREOLE GIRL;
                        OR, THE PHYSICIAN'S STORY.
                        
                        THE CREOLE GIRL;
                        OR, THE PHYSICIAN'S STORY.
                        
                            
                                
                                    Elle était de ce monde, où les plus belles chose
                                    Ont le pire destin;
                                    Et Rose, elle a vécu ce que vivent les Roses,
                                    L'espace d'un matin!
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                I.
                                SHE came to England from the island clime
                                Which lies beyond the far Atlantic wave;
                                She died in early youth—before her time—
                                “Peace to her broken heart, and virgin grave!”
                            
                            
                                II.
                                She was the child of Passion, and of Shame,
                                English her father, and of noble birth;
                                Though too obscure for good or evil fame,
                                Her unknown mother faded from the earth.
                            
                            
                            
                                III.
                                And what that fair West Indian did betide,
                                None knew but he, who least of all might tell,—
                                But that she lived, and loved, and lonely died,
                                And sent this orphan child with him to dwell.
                            
                            
                                IV.
                                Oh! that a fair and innocent young face
                                Should have a poison in its looks alone,
                                To raise up thoughts of sorrow and disgrace
                                And shame most bitter, although not its own!
                            
                            
                                V.
                                Cruel were they who flung that heavy shade
                                Across the life whose days did but begin;
                                Cruel were they who crush'd her heart, and made
                                Her youth pay penance for
                                        his youth's wild sin;
                            
                            
                                VI.
                                Yet so it was;—among her father's friends
                                A cold compassion made contempt seem light,
                                But, in “the world,” no justice e'er defends
                                The victims of their tortuous wrong and right:—
                            
                            
                            
                                VII.
                                And “moral England,” striking down the weak,
                                And smiling at the vices of the strong,
                                On her, poor child! her parent's guilt would wreak,
                                And that which was her grievance, made her wrong.
                            
                            
                                VIII.
                                The world she understood not; nor did they
                                Who made that world,—her, either, understand;
                                The very glory of her features' play
                                Seem'd like the language of a foreign land;
                            
                            
                                IX.
                                The shadowy feelings, rich and wild and warm,
                                That glow'd and mantled in her lovely face,—
                                The slight full beauty of her youthful form,
                                Its gentle majesty, its pliant grace,—
                            
                            
                                X.
                                The languid lustre of her speaking eye,
                                The indolent smile of that bewitching mouth,
                                (Which more than all betray'd her natal sky,
                                And left us dreaming of the sunny South,)—
                            
                            
                            
                                XI.
                                The passionate variation of her blood,
                                Which rose and sank, as rise and sink the waves,
                                With every change of her most changeful mood,
                                Shock'd sickly Fashion's pale and
                                    guarded slaves.
                            
                            
                                XII.
                                And so in this fair world she stood alone,
                                An alien 'mid the ever-moving crowd,
                                A wandering stranger, nameless and unknown,
                                Her claim to human kindness disallow'd.
                            
                            
                                XIII.
                                But oft would Passion's bold and burning gaze,
                                And Curiosity's set frozen stare,
                                Fix on her beauty in those early days,
                                And coarsely thus her loveliness declare;
                            
                            
                                XIV.
                                Which she would shrink from, as the gentle plant,
                                Fern-leaved Mimosa folds itself away;
                                Suffering and sad;—for easy 'twas to daunt
                                One who on earth had no protecting stay.
                            
                            
                            
                                XV.
                                And often to her eye's transparent lid
                                The unshed tears would rise with sudden start,
                                And sink again, as though by Reason chid,
                                Back to their gentle home, her wounded heart;
                            
                            
                                XVI.
                                Even as some gushing fountain idly wells
                                Up to the prison of its marble side,
                                Whose power the mounting wave for ever quells,—
                                So rose her tears—so stemm'd by virgin pride.
                            
                            
                                XVII.
                                And so more lonely each succeeding day,
                                As she her lot did better understand,
                                She lived a life which had in it decay,
                                A flower transplanted to too cold a land,—
                            
                            
                                XVIII.
                                Which for a while gives out a hope of bloom,
                                Then fades and pines, because it may not feel
                                The freedom and the warmth which gave it room
                                The beauty of its nature to reveal.
                            
                            
                            
                                XIX.
                                For vainly would the heart accept its lot
                                And rouse its strength to bear avow'd contempt;
                                Scorn will be felt as scorn,—deserved or not,—
                                And from its bitter spell none stand exempt.
                            
                            
                                XX.
                                There is a basilisk power in human eyes
                                When they would look a fellow-creature down,
                                'Neath which the faint soul fascinated lies,
                                Struck by the cold sneer, or the with'ring frown.
                            
                            
                                XXI.
                                But one there was, among that cruel crowd,
                                Whose nature half rebell'd against the
                                    chain
                                Which fashion flung around him; though too proud
                                To own that slavery's weariness and pain.
                            
                            
                                XXII.
                                Too proud; perhaps too weak; for Custom still
                                Curbs with an iron bit the souls born free;
                                They start and chafe, yet bend them to the will
                                Of this most nameless ruler,—so did he.
                            
                            
                            
                                XXIII.
                                And even unto him the worldly brand
                                Which rested on her, half her charm effaced;
                                Vainly all pure and radiant did she stand,—
                                Even unto him she was a thing
                                    disgraced.
                            
                            
                                XXIV.
                                Had she been early doom'd a cloister'd nun,
                                To Heaven devoted by a holy vow—
                                His union with that poor deserted one
                                Had seem'd not more impossible than
                                    now.
                            
                            
                                XXV.
                                He could have loved her—fervently and well;
                                But still the cold world, with its false allure,
                                Bound his free liking in an icy spell,
                                And made its whole foundation insecure.
                            
                            
                                XXVI.
                                But not like meaner souls, would he, to prove
                                A vulgar admiration, her pursue;
                                For though his glances after her would rove,
                                As something beautiful, and strange, and new,
                            
                            
                            
                                XXVII.
                                They were withdrawn if but her eye met his,
                                Or, for an instant if their light remain'd,
                                They soften'd into gentlest tenderness,
                                As asking pardon that his look had pain'd.
                            
                            
                                XXVIII.
                                And she was nothing unto him,—nor he
                                Aught unto her; but each of each did dream
                                In the still hours of thought, when we are free
                                To quit the real world for the things which seem.
                            
                            
                                XXIX.
                                When in his heart Love's folded wings would stir,
                                And bid his youth choose out a fitting mate,
                                Against his will his thoughts roam'd back to
                                    her,
                                And all around seem'd blank and desolate.
                            
                            
                                XXX.
                                When, in his worldly haunts, a smother'd sigh
                                Told he had won some lady of the land,
                                The dreaming glances of his earnest eye
                                Beheld far off the Creole orphan stand;
                            
                            
                            
                                XXXI.
                                And to the beauty by his side he froze,
                                As though she were not fair, nor he so young,
                                And turn'd on her such looks of cold repose
                                As check'd the trembling accents of her tongue,
                            
                            
                                XXXII.
                                And bid her heart's dim passion seek to hide
                                Its gathering strength, although the task be
                                    pain,
                                Lest she become that mock to woman's pride—
                                A wretch that loves unwoo'd, and loves in vain.
                            
                            
                                XXXIII.
                                So in his heart she dwelt,—as one may dwell
                                Upon the verge of a forbidden ground;
                                And oft he struggled hard to break the spell
                                And banish her, but vain the effort found;
                            
                            
                                XXXIV.
                                For still along the winding way which led
                                Into his inmost soul, unbidden came
                                Her haunting form,—and he was visited
                                By echoes soft of her unspoken name,
                            
                            
                            
                                XXXV.
                                Through the long night, when those we love seem
                                    near,
                                However cold, however far away,
                                Borne on the wings of floating dreams, which cheer
                                And give us strength to meet the struggling day.
                            
                            
                                XXXVI.
                                And when in twilight hours she roved apart,
                                Feeding her love-sick soul with visions fair,
                                The shadow of his eyes was on her heart,
                                And the smooth masses of his shining hair
                            
                            
                                XXXVII.
                                Rose in the glory of the evening light,
                                And, where she wander'd, glided evermore,
                                A star which beam'd upon her world's lone night,
                                Where nothing glad had ever shone before.
                            
                            
                                XXXVIII.
                                But vague and girlish was that love,—no hope,
                                Even of familiar greeting, ever cross'd
                                Its innocent, but, oh! most boundless scope;
                                She loved him,—and she knew her love was lost.
                            
                            
                            
                                XXXIX.
                                She gazed on him, as one from out a bark,
                                Bound onward to a cold and distant strand,
                                Some lovely bay, some haven fair may mark,
                                Stretching far inward to a sunnier land;
                            
                            
                                XL.
                                Who, knowing he must still sail on, turns back
                                To watch with dreaming and most mournful eyes
                                The ruffling foam which follows in his track,
                                Or the deep starlight of the shoreless skies.
                            
                            
                                XLI.
                                Oh! many a hopeless love like this may be,—
                                For love will live that never looks to win;
                                Gems rashly lost in Passion's stormy sea,
                                Not to be lifted forth when once cast in!
                            
                            
                        
                        
                            
                            PART II.
                            
                                I.
                                So time roll'd on, till suddenly that child
                                Of southern clime and feelings, droop'd and pined
                                Her cheek wax'd paler, and her eye grew wild,
                                And from her youthful form all strength declined.
                            
                            
                                II.
                                'Twas then I knew her; late and vainly call'd,
                                To “minister unto a mind diseased,”—
                                When on her heart's faint sickness all things pall'd,
                                And the deep inward pain was never eased:
                            
                            
                                III.
                                Her step was always gentle, but at last
                                It fell as lightly as a wither'd leaf
                                In autumn hours; and wheresoe'er she pass'd
                                Smiles died away, she look'd so full of grief.
                            
                            
                            
                                IV.
                                And more than ever from that world, where still
                                Her father hoped to place her, she would shrink;
                                Loving to be alone, her thirst to fill
                                From the sweet fountains where the dreamers
                                    drink.
                            
                            
                                V.
                                One eve, beneath the acacia's waving bough,
                                Wrapt in these lonely thoughts she sate and read;
                                Her dark hair parted from her sunny brow,
                                Her graceful arm beneath her languid head;
                            
                            
                                VI.
                                And droopingly and sad she hung above
                                The open page, whereon her eyes were bent,
                                With looks of fond regret and pining love;
                                Nor heard my step, so deep was she intent.
                            
                            
                                VII.
                                And when she me perceived, she did not start,
                                But lifted up those soft dark eyes to mine,
                                And smiled, (that mournful smile which breaks the heart!)
                                Then glanced again upon the printed line.
                            
                            
                            
                                VIII.
                                “What readest thou?” I ask'd. With fervent gaze,
                                As though she would have scann'd my inmost soul,
                                She turn'd to me, and, as a child obeys
                                The accustom'd question of revered control,
                            
                            
                                IX.
                                She pointed to the title of that book,
                                (Which, bending down, I saw was “Coralie,”)
                                Then gave me one imploring piteous look,
                                And tears, too long restrain'd, gush'd fast and
                                    free.
                            
                            
                                X.
                                It was a tale of one, whose fate had been
                                Too like her own to make that weeping strange;
                                Like her, transplanted from a sunnier scene;
                                Like her, all dull'd and blighted by the change.
                            
                            
                                XI.
                                No further word was breathed between us two;—
                                No confidence was made to keep or break;—
                                But since that day, which pierced my soul quite thro',
                                My hand the dying girl would faintly take,
                            
                            
                            
                                XII.
                                And murmur, as its grasp (ah! piteous end!)
                                Return'd the feeble pressure of her own,
                                “Be with me to the last,—for thou, dear friend,
                                Hast all my struggles, all my sorrow known!”
                            
                            
                                XIII.
                                She died!—The pulse of that untrammell'd heart
                                Fainted to stilness. Those most glorious eyes
                                Closed on the world where she had dwelt apart,
                                And her cold bosom heaved no further sighs.
                            
                            
                                XIV.
                                She died!—and no one mourn'd, except her sire,
                                Who for a while look'd out with eyes more dim;
                                Lone was her place beside his household fire,
                                Vanish'd the face that ever smiled on him.
                            
                            
                                XV.
                                And no one said to him—“Why mournest thou?”
                                Because she was the unknown child of shame;
                                (Albeit her mother better kept the vow
                                Of faithful love, than some who keep their fame.)
                            
                            
                            
                                XVI.
                                Poor mother, and poor child!—unvalued lives!
                                Wan leaves that perish'd in obscurest shade!
                                While round me still the proud world stirs and strives,
                                Say, shall I weep that ye are lowly laid?
                            
                            
                                XVII.
                                Shall I mourn for ye? No!—and least for thee,
                                Young dreamer, whose pure heart gave way before
                                Thy bark was launch'd upon Love's stormy sea,
                                Or treachery wreck'd it on the farther shore.
                            
                            
                                XVIII.
                                Least, least of all for thee! Thou art gone hence!
                                Thee never more shall scornful looks oppress,
                                Thee the world wrings not with some vain pretence,
                                Nor chills thy tears, nor mocks at thy distress.
                            
                            
                                XIX.
                                From man's injustice, from the cold award
                                Of the unfeeling, thou hast pass'd away;
                                Thou'rt at the gates of light, where angels guard
                                Thy path to realms of bright eternal day.
                            
                            
                            
                                XX.
                                There shall thy soul its chains of slavery burst,
                                There, meekly standing before God's high throne,
                                Thou'lt find the judgments of our earth reversed,
                                And answer for no errors but thine own.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        TWILIGHT.
                        
                        TWILIGHT.
                        
                            IT is the twilight hour,
                            The daylight toil is done,
                            And the last rays are departing
                            Of the cold and wintry sun.
                            It is the time when Friendship
                            Holds converse fair and free,
                            It is the time when children
                            Dance round the mother's knee.
                            But my soul is faint and heavy,
                            With a yearning sad and deep,
                            By the fireside lone and dreary
                            I sit me down and weep!
                            Where are ye, merry voices,
                            Whose clear and bird-like tone,
                            Some other ear now blesses,
                            Less anxious than my own?
                            
                            Where are ye, steps of lightness,
                            Which fell like blossom-showers?
                            Where are ye, sounds of laughter,
                            That cheer'd the pleasant hours?
                            Thro' the dim light slow declining,
                            Where my wistful glances fall,
                            I can see your pictures hanging
                            Against the silent wall;—
                            They gleam athwart the darkness,
                            With their sweet and changeless eyes,
                            But mute are ye, my children!
                            No voice to mine replies.
                            Where are ye? Are ye playing
                            By the stranger's blazing hearth;
                            Forgetting in your gladness,
                            Your old home's former mirth?
                            Are ye dancing? Are ye singing?
                            Are ye full of childish glee?
                            Or do your light hearts sadden
                            With the memory of me?
                            Round whom, oh! gentle darlings,
                            Do your young arms fondly twine,
                            Does she press you to her bosom
                            Who hath taken you from mine?
                            
                            Oh! boys, the twilight hour
                            Such a heavy time hath grown,—
                            It recalls with such deep anguish
                            All I used to call my own,—
                            That the harshest word that ever
                            Was spoken to me there,
                            Would be trivial—would be welcome—
                            In the depth of my despair!
                            Yet no! Despair shall sink not,
                            While Life and Love remain,—
                            Tho' the weary struggle haunt me,
                            And my prayer be made in vain:
                            Tho' at times my spirit fail me,
                            And the bitter tear-drops fall,
                            Tho' my lot be hard and lonely,
                            Yet I hope—I hope thro' all!
                        
                        
                            When the mournful Jewish mother
                            Laid her infant down to rest,
                            In doubt, and fear, and sorrow,
                            On the water's changeful breast;
                            
                            She knew not what the future
                            Should bring the sorely-tried:
                            That the High Priest of her nation,
                            Was the babe she sought to hide.
                            No! in terror wildly flying,
                            She hurried on her path;
                            Her swoln heart full to bursting
                            Of woman's helpless wrath;
                            Of that wrath so blent with anguish,
                            When we seek to shield from ill
                            Those feeble little creatures
                            Who seem more helpless still!
                            Ah! no doubt, in such an hour,
                            Her thoughts were harsh and wild;
                            The fiercer burned her spirit,
                            The more she loved her child;
                            No doubt, a frenzied anger
                            Was mingled with her fear,
                            When that prayer arose for justice
                            Which God hath sworn to hear.
                            He heard it! From His Heaven,
                            In its blue and boundless scope,
                            He saw that task of anguish,
                            And that fragile ark of hope;
                            
                            When she turn'd from that lost infant,
                            Her weeping eyes of love,
                            And the cold reeds bent beneath it—
                            His angels watch'd above!
                            She was spared the bitter sorrow
                            Of her young child's early death,
                            Or the doubt where he was carried
                            To draw his distant breath;
                            She was call'd his life to nourish
                            From the well-springs of her heart,
                            God's mercy re-uniting
                            Those whom man had forced apart!
                        
                        
                            Nor was thy woe forgotten,
                            Whose worn and weary feet
                            Were driven from thy homestead,
                            Through the red sand's parching heat;
                            Poor Hagar! scorn'd and banish'd,
                            That another's son might be
                            Sole claimant on that father,
                            Who felt no more for thee.
                            
                            Ah! when thy dark eye wander'd,
                            Forlorn Egyptian slave!
                            Across that lurid desert,
                            And saw no fountain wave,—
                            When thy southern heart, despairing,
                            In the passion of its grief,
                            Foresaw no ray of comfort,
                            No shadow of relief;
                            But to cast the young child from thee,
                            That thou might'st not see him die,
                            How sank thy broken spirit—
                            But the Lord of Hosts was nigh!
                            He (He, too oft-forgotten,
                            In sorrow as in joy)
                            Had will'd they should not perish—
                            The outcast and her boy:
                            The cool breeze swept across them
                            From the angel's waving wing,—
                            The fresh tide gush'd in brightness
                            From the fountain's living spring,—
                            And they stood—those two—forsaken
                            By all earthly love or aid,
                            Upheld by God's firm promise,
                            Serene and undismay'd!
                            
                            And thou, Nain's grieving widow!
                            Whose task of life seem'd done,
                            When the pale corse lay before thee
                            Of thy dear and only son;
                            Though Death, that fearful shadow,
                            Had veil'd his fair young eyes,
                            There was mercy for thy weeping,
                            There was pity for thy sighs!
                            The gentle voice of Jesus,
                            (Who the touch of sorrow knew)
                            The grave's cold claim arrested
                            E'er it hid him from thy view;
                            And those loving orbs re-open'd
                            And knew thy mournful face,—
                            And the stiff limbs warm'd and bent them
                            With all life's moving grace,—
                            And his senses dawn'd and waken'd
                            From the dark and frozen spell,
                            Which death had cast around him
                            Whom thou did'st love so well;
                            Till, like one return'd from exile
                            To his former home of rest,
                            Who speaks not, while his mother
                            Falls sobbing on his breast;
                            
                            But with strange bewilder'd glances
                            Looks round on objects near,
                            To recognise and welcome
                            All that memory held dear,—
                            Thy young son stood before thee
                            All living and restored,
                            And they who saw the wonder
                            Knelt down to praise the Lord!
                        
                        
                            The twilight hour is over!
                            In busier homes than mine
                            I can see the shadows crossing
                            Athwart the taper's shine;
                            I hear the roll of chariots
                            And the tread of homeward feet,
                            And the lamps' long rows of splendor
                            Gleam through the misty street.
                            No more I mark the objects
                            In my cold and cheerless room;
                            The fire's unheeded embers
                            Have sunk—and all is gloom;
                            
                            But I know where hang your pictures
                            Against the silent wall,
                            And my eyes turn sadly towards them,
                            Tho' I hope—I hope thro' all.
                        
                        
                            By the summons to that mother,
                            Whose fondness fate beguiled,
                            When the tyrant's gentle daughter
                            Saved her river-floating child;—
                            By the sudden joy which bounded
                            In the banish'd Hagar's heart,
                            When she saw the gushing fountain
                            From the sandy desert start;—
                            By the living smile which greeted
                            The lonely one of Nain,
                            When her long last watch was over
                            And her hope seem'd wild and vain;—
                            By all the tender mercy
                            God hath shown to human grief,
                            When fate or man's perverseness
                            Denied and barr'd relief,—
                            
                            By the helpless woe which taught me
                            To look to him alone,
                            From the vain appeals for justice
                            And wild efforts of my own,—
                            By thy light—thou unseen future,
                            And thy tears—thou bitter past,
                            I will hope—tho' all forsake me,
                            In His mercy to the last!
                        
                        
                            
                                December, 1838.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        A DESTINY.
                        
                        A DESTINY.
                        
                            I.
                            THERE was a lady, who had early wed
                            One whom she saw and lov'd in her bright youth,
                            When life was yet untried—and when he said
                            He, too, lov'd her, he spoke no more than truth;
                            He lov'd as well as baser natures can,—
                            But a mean heart and soul were in that man.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            And they dwelt happily, if happy be
                            Not with harsh words to breed unnatural strife:
                            The cold world's Argus-watching failed to see
                            The flaw that dimm'd the lustre of their life;
                            Save that he seem'd tyrannical, tho' gay,
                            Restless and selfish in his love of sway.
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            The calm of conscious power was not in him;
                            But rather, struggling into broader light,
                            The secret sense, they feel, however dim,
                            Whose chance position gives a sort of right
                            (As from the height of a prescriptive throne,)
                            To govern natures nobler than their own.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            And as her youth waned slowly on, there fell
                            A nameless shadow on that lady's heart;
                            And those she lov'd the best (and she lov'd well),
                            Had of her confidence nor share, nor part;
                            Her thoughts lay folded from Life's lessening light,
                            Like the sweet flowers which close themselves at night.
                        
                        
                            V.
                            And men began to whisper evil things
                            Against the honour of her wedded mate;
                            That which had pass'd for youth's wild wanderings,
                            Showed more suspicious in his settled state;
                            Until at length,—he stood, at some chance game,
                            Discover'd,—branded with a Cheater's name.
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Out, and away he slunk, with felon air;
                            Then, calling to him one who was his friend,
                            Bid him to that unblemish'd wife repair
                            And tell her what had chanced, and what the end;
                            How they must leave the country of their birth,
                            And hide,—in some more distant spot of earth.
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            It was a coward's thought: he could not bear
                            Himself to be narrator of his shame;
                            He that had trampled oft, now felt in fear
                            Of her who still must keep his blighted name,—
                            And shrank in fancy from that steadfast eye,
                            The window to a soul so pure and high.
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            She heard it. O'er her brow there pass'd a flush
                            Of sunset red; and then so white a hue,
                            So deadly pale, it seem'd as if no blush
                            Through that transparent cheek should shine anew;
                            As if the blood had frozen in that hour,
                            And her check'd pulse for ever lost its power.
                        
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            And twice and once did she essay to speak;
                            And with a gesture almost of command,
                            (Though in its motion it was deadly weak)
                            She faintly lifted up her graceful hand:—
                            But then her soul came back to her, strength woke,
                            And with a low but even voice, she spoke:
                        
                        
                            X.
                            “Go! say to him who dream'd of other chance,
                            That HERE none sit in judgment on his sin;
                            That to his door the world's scorn may advance,
                            And cloud his path, but doth not enter in.
                            Here dwell his Own: to share, to soothe disgrace;”—
                            Which having said, she cover'd up her face,
                        
                        
                            XI.
                            And, as he left her, sank in bitter prayer,—
                            If prayer that may be term'd which comes to all,
                            That sudden gushing of our vain despair,
                            When none but God can hear or heed our call;
                            And the wreck'd soul feels, in its helpless hour,
                            Where only dwells full mercy with full power.
                        
                        
                        
                            XII.
                            And he came home, a crush'd and humbled wretch;
                            Whom when she saw, she but this comfort found,
                            In her kind arms that shrinking form to catch,
                            Which tenderly about his neck she wound,
                            As in the first proud days of love and trust,
                            E'er yet his reckless head was bow'd in dust!
                        
                        
                            XIII.
                            And they departed to a distant shore;
                            But wheresoe'er they dwelt, however lone,
                            Shame, like a marble statue at his door,
                            Flung her 'thwart shadow o'er his threshold stone;
                            Still darken'd all their daylight hours, and kept
                            Cold watch above them even while they slept.
                        
                        
                            XIV.
                            And there was no more love between those two!
                            It died not in the shock of that dark hour—
                            Such shocks destroy not love, whose purple hue
                            Fades rather, like some autumn-wither'd flower,
                            Which day by day along the ruin'd walk
                            We see—then miss it from the sapless stalk;
                        
                        
                        
                            XV.
                            And, while it fadeth, oft with gentle hand
                            Doth memory turn to life's dark journal-book;
                            And, passing foul misdeeds, intently stand
                            On its first page of glorious hope to look;
                            Weeping she reads,—and, seeing all so fair,
                            Pleads hard for what we are, by what we
                                    were!
                        
                        
                            XVI.
                            So through that hour love lived; and, though in part
                            'Twas one of most unutterable pain,
                            It had its sweetness too, and told her heart
                            All she could do, and all she could sustain;
                            The holy love of woman buoy'd her up,
                            And God gave strength to drink the bitter cup.
                        
                        
                            XVII.
                            But when, as days crept on, she saw him still
                            Less grateful than abash'd beneath her eye,
                            And studying not how best to banish ill,
                            But what he might conceal and what deny,
                            Her soul revolted, and conceived a scorn,
                            Sinful and harsh, although of virtue born.
                        
                        
                        
                            XVIII.
                            And oft she pray'd, with earnestness and pain,
                            That heaven would bid that proud contempt depart,
                            And wept to find the prayer and effort vain,
                            Though it was breathed in agony of heart—
                            Vain as the murmur of “Thy will be done,”
                            Breathed by the death-bed of an only son!
                        
                        
                            XIX.
                            For when her children err'd (as children will)
                            A sickening terror smote her heart with fears,
                            And scarce she measured the degree of ill,
                            Or made indulgence for their tender years;
                            They were HIS children; and the chance of shame
                            Kept watch for those who bore that father's name.
                        
                        
                            XX.
                            And, thinking thus, reproof would take a tone
                            So strangely passionate, severe, and wild—
                            So deeply alter'd,—so unlike her own,—
                            It stung and terrified her startled child,
                            Whose innate sense of justice seem'd to show
                            Him over-chidden, being chidden so.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXI.
                            And then a gush of mother's love would swell
                            Her grieving heart,—and she would fondly press
                            The young offending head she loved so well
                            Close to her own, with many a soft caress,
                            Whose reconciling sweetness all in vain
                            Stopp'd her boy's tears, while her's ran down like rain.
                        
                        
                            XXII.
                            The world (which still pronounces from the show
                            Of outward things) whisper'd and talk'd of this;
                            Erring and obstinate, its crowds ne'er know
                            How much in judging they may judge amiss,
                            Or how much agony and broken peace
                            May lie beneath the seeming of caprice!
                        
                        
                            XXIII.
                            But he, her husband (for he was not dull),
                            Saw through these workings of a troubled mind,
                            And, that her cup of sorrow might be full,
                            He taunted her with words and looks unkind,
                            Which with a patient bowing of the heart
                            She took—like one resolved to do her part.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXIV.
                            And years stole on (for years go by like days,
                            Leaving but scatter'd hours to mark their course),
                            And brightness faded from that lady's gaze,
                            And her cheek hollow'd, and her step lost force,
                            Till it was plain to even a careless eye
                            That she was doom'd, before her time, to die.
                        
                        
                            XXV.
                            She died, as she had lived, her secret soul
                            Shut from the sweet communion of true friends;
                            Her words, though not her thoughts, she could control,
                            And still with calm respect his name she blends:
                            They all stood round her whom she call'd her Own,
                            And saw her die—yet was that death-bed lone!
                        
                        
                            XXVI.
                            But in its darkest hour her thoughts were stirr'd,
                            And something falter'd from her dying tongue,
                            Mournful and tender—half pronounced, half heard—
                            For which he was too base—his boys too
                                young;
                            So whatso'er the warning faintly given,
                            It lay between her parting soul and Heaven.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXVII.
                            He wept for her—ah! who would not have wept
                            To see that worn face in its pallid shroud,
                            Proving how much she suffer'd ere she slept
                            At peace for ever! Violent and loud
                            Was the outbreaking of his sudden grief,
                            And, like all feelings in that heart, 'twas brief.
                        
                        
                            XXVIII.
                            And something strange pass'd o'er his soul instead,
                            When thinking upon her whom he had lost,
                            Almost like a relief that she was dead:—
                            She, whose high nature scorn'd his fault the most,
                            And show'd it least,—had vanish'd from the earth,
                            And none could check his sin, or shame his mirth.
                        
                        
                            XXIX.
                            So he return'd to many an evil way,
                            Like one who strays when guiding light is gone;
                            And mid the profligate, miscall'd “the gay,”
                            Crept to a slippery place—his tale half known—
                            Ill look'd on, yet endured—the useful tool
                            Of every bolder knave, or richer fool.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXX.
                            And his two sons in careless beauty grew,
                            Like wild-flowers in his path: he mark'd them not,
                            Nor reck'd he what they needed, learnt, or knew,
                            Or what might be on earth their future lot;
                            But they died young—which is a thought of rest!
                            Unscorn'd, untempted, undefiled—so best.
                        
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                    
                    MISCELLANEOUS POEMS.
                    
                        
                            
                            THE CHAPEL ROYAL ST. JAMES'S,
                            ON THE 10TH FEBRUARY, 1840.
                            
                                I.
                                ONCE more the people meet,
                                With glad expectant faces: once again
                                The fair young monarch and her lovely train,
                                With slow and gentle feet,
                                Move in a solemn ceremony on;
                                And jewels glitter in the morning sun!
                            
                            
                                II.
                                Not long, oh! Time, not long
                                It seems, since crown'd as Britain's welcome Queen,
                                The like fair sight in fair array was seen;
                                And the hush'd listening throng,
                                Watching those steps thro' Westminster's proud aisle,
                                Wept with full hearts, tho' joyous all the while.
                            
                            
                            
                                III.
                                And they come forth anew,
                                In bridal white, that gentle virgin band,
                                The chosen flowers of Britain's happy land;
                                For holy love and true
                                Hath wrought an hour of hope without alloy—
                                A fairy sight of splendour and of joy.
                            
                            
                                IV.
                                There,—with her locks of light,
                                Gleaming like gold around her noble head,—
                                The orphan'd ELEANOR, with stately tread,1
                                Went by, a vision bright;
                                Bidding sweet thoughts of love and triumph start
                                Into a father's nd a sister's heart.
                            
                            
                                V.
                                There,—in her beauty, pass'd
                                Young FRANCES COWPER; her transparent cheek
                                Blushing the greetings which she might not spea,
                                As on the crowd she cast
                                The shy soft glances of those dark-blue eyes,
                                In whose untom'd depth such sweetness lies!
                            
                            
                            
                                VI.
                                There, with her spotless name,
                                The gentle HOWARD, good, and fair, and mild,
                                And bright-eyed BOUVERIE, noble Radnor's child,
                                And rose-bud VILLIERS came;
                                And, with her sweet frank smile, young IDA HAY,
                                Looking all gladness, like a morn in May.
                            
                            
                                VII.
                                There, brilliant LENNOX moved;
                                The Paget beauty shining from her brow,
                                And the dark, deer-like eyes that glanced below:
                                While, gentle and beloved,
                                Amid the glories of that courtly throng,
                                DELAWARE'S youthful daughter pass'd along.
                            
                            
                                VIII.
                                There, (theme for poet's praise!)
                                With swanlike throat, and clear majestic eye,
                                VERULAM's stately MARY glided by,
                                And, with her quiet gaze
                                Fixed smiling on the scene which she survey'd,
                                The soldier ANGLESEA'S bright ADELAIDE.
                            
                            
                            
                                IX.
                                And she, whose orbs of blue,
                                Like mountain lakes beheld by moonlight, gleam
                                With all the shadowy softness of a dream
                                Such as Endymion knew:
                                Whose glossy locks with rich luxuriance twine
                                Around her brow: the Lady WILHELMINE.
                            
                            
                                X.
                                Young were they all—and fair,—
                                But thou, VICTORIA, held'st thy fitting place,
                                As amongst garden-flowers the lily's grace,
                                Blooms with a royal air;
                                And from that lovely various group, apart,
                                Dids't stand, and gently look the Queen thou art.
                            
                            
                                XI.
                                The smile thy young lip wore,
                                Spoke joy to Him, who, from his distant home,
                                Hath sped in wintry time o'er ocean's foam—
                                To seek our island shore,
                                With his frank heart, and brow so fair and true,
                                Claiming thy love-and England's welcome too.
                            
                            
                            
                                XII.
                                Oh! may that welcome prove
                                The herald of deep gladness;—since in thee
                                Old England's brightest hopes renew'd we see,
                                All-hallow'd be thy love;
                                And still with proud content the day allied,
                                When Princely ALBERT claim'd his Royal Bride!
                            
                            
                                XIII.
                                May He, whose gifted hand,
                                Hath twined sweet wreaths of Poetry and Song;2
                                Live happy among English heart so long
                                That, native to the land,
                                He shall forget that e'er his harp was strung
                                To any accents but our mother-tongue:
                            
                            
                                XIV.
                                And Thou,—Oh! may the Crown
                                Which in youth's freshest, earliest moment, graced
                                The brow, whose childhood's roses it replaced,
                                Ne'er weigh thy spirit down;
                                Nor tearful hours, nor careful thoughts, beguile
                                One ray of gladness from thy gracious smile:
                            
                            
                            
                                XV.
                                But brightly to the last,
                                Fair Fortune shine, with calm and steady ray,
                                Upon the tenor of thy happy way;
                                A future like the past:
                                And every prayer by loyal subjects said,
                                Bring down a separate blessing on thy head!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                            NOTES.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 1.—Page 126.
                                        
                                            “The orphan'd ELEANOR, with stately tread.”
                                        
                                        The exact order in which the young ladies present on this
                                            eventful occasion, as trainbearers, followed Her
                                            Majesty, is not preserved in this poem; the names being
                                            necessarily arranged as would suit the verse. Taking the
                                            names in the order of the poem, the trainbearers
                                            were,—The LADY ELEANOR PAGET, the daughter of the EARL
                                            OF UXBRIDGE (Lord Chamberlain to the Queen), by his
                                            first Countess. The LADY FANNY COWPER, daughter of
                                            COUNTESS COWPER (now VICOUNTESS PALMERSTON). The LADY E.
                                            HOWARD, daughter of the EARL and COUNTESS OF CARLISLE,
                                            and sister of the DUCHESS OF SUTHERLAND. The LADY ANNE
                                            HOWARD, daughter of the EARL and COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK.
                                            The LADY ANNE BOUVERIE, daughter of the EARL and
                                            COUNTESS OF RADNOR. The LADY SARAH VILLIERS, daughter of
                                            the EARL and COUNTESS OF JERSEY. The LADY IDA HAY,
                                            daughter of the EARL and COUNTESS OF ERROL. The LADY
                                            CAROLINE LENNOX, daughter of the DUKE and DUCHESS OF
                                            RICHMOND. The LADY ELIZABETH WEST, daughter of the EARL
                                            and COUNTESS DELAWARE. The LADY MARY GRIMSTONE, daughter
                                            of the EARL and COUNTESS OF VERULAM. The LADY ADELAIDE PAGET, daughter
                                            of the MARQUIS and MARCHIONESS OF ANGLESEA. The LADY
                                            WILHELMINE STANHOPE, daughter of the EARL and COUNTESS
                                            STANHOPE.
                                
                                
                                    
                                        NOTE 2—Page 129.
                                        
                                            “May He, whose gifted hand
                                            Hath twined sweet wreaths of Poetry and Song.”
                                        
                                        His Royal Highness Prince Albert is himself a poet and
                                            musician; and some of his early compositions, written in
                                            German and set to music, have been lately published in
                                            this country.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        ON SEEING ANTHONY,
                        THE ELDEST CHILD OF LORD AND LADY ASHLEY.
                        
                            I.
                            IT was a fair and gentle child
                            Stood leaning by his mother's knee;
                            His noble brow was smooth and mild—
                            His eyes shone bright with frolic glee—
                            And he was stately, though so young;
                            As from a noble lineage sprung.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            So, gazing on him, as we gaze,
                            Upon a bud, whose promise yet
                            Lies shut from all the glowing rays
                            Which afterwards illumine it:
                            I marvell'd what the fruit might be
                            When that fair plant became a tree.
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Ah! then, what dreams of proud success,
                            That lordly brow of beauty brought,
                            With all its infant stateliness,
                            And all its unripe power of thought!
                            What triumphs, boundless, unconfined,
                            Came crowding on my wand'ring mind!
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            I gave that child, the voice might hold
                            A future senate in command;
                            Head clear and prompt—heart true and bold—
                            As quick to act as understand:
                            I dream'd the scholar's fame achieved—
                            The hero's wreath of laurel weaved!
                        
                        
                            V.
                            But as I mused, a whisper came
                            Which (like a friend's reproachful tone,
                            Whose gentleness can smite with shame
                            Far more than fiercest word or frown;)
                            Roused my vex'd conscience by its spell,
                            And thus the whisper'd warning fell:—
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            “Ah! let the shrouded future be,
                            With all its weight of distant care!
                            Cloud not with dreams of vanity
                            That blue bright eye, and forehead fair!
                            Nor cast thy worldly hopes and fears
                            In shadow o'er his happy years!
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            “Desire not, even in thy dreams,
                            To hasten those remoter hours
                            Which, bright although their promise seems,
                            Must strip his spring-time of its flowers!—
                            What triumph, in the time to come,
                            Shall match these early days of home?
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            “This is the Eden of his life,—
                            His little heart bounds glad and free:
                            Amid a world of toil and strife,
                            All independent smileth he!
                            Nor dreams by that sweet mother's side
                            Of dark Ambition's restless pride.
                        
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            “But, like a bird in winter,—still
                            Fill'd with a sweet and natural joy,
                            Tho' frost lies bleak upon the hill,
                            And mists obscure the cold grey sky,
                            Which sings, tho' on a leafless bough,—
                            He smiles, even at the gloomiest brow!”
                        
                        
                            X.
                            Oh! looking a child's fair face
                            Methinks should purify the heart;
                            As angel presences have grace
                            To bid the darker powers depart,
                            And glorify our grosser sense
                            With a reflected innocence!
                        
                        
                            XI.
                            And seeing thee, thou lovely boy,
                            My soul, reproach'd, gave up its schemes
                            Of worldly triumph's heartless joy,
                            For purer and more sinless dreams,
                            And mingled in my farewell there
                            Something of blessing and of prayer.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE DYING HOUR.
                        
                            
                                “Te teneam moriens, deficiente manu.”
                            
                        
                        
                            I.
                            OH! watch me; watch me still
                            Thro' the long night's dreary hours,
                            Uphold by thy firm will
                            Worn Nature's sinking powers!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            While yet thy face is there
                            (The loose locks round it flying),
                            So young, and fresh, and fair,
                            I feel not I am dying!
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Stoop down, and kiss my brow!
                            The shadows round me closing
                            Warn me that dark and low
                            I soon shall be reposing.
                        
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            But while those pitying eyes
                            Are bending thus above me,
                            In vain the death-dews rise,—
                            Thou dost regret and love me!
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Then watch me thro' the night,
                            Thro' my broken, fitful slumber;
                            By the pale lamp's sickly light
                            My dying moments number!
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Thy fond and patient smile
                            Shall soothe my painful waking;
                            Thy voice shall cheer me while
                            The slow grey dawn is breaking!
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            The battle-slain, whose thirst
                            No kindly hand assuages,
                            Whose low faint farewells burst
                            Unheard, while combat rages,—
                        
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            The exiled, near whose bed
                            Some vision'd form seems weeping,
                            Whose steps shall never tread
                            The land where he lies sleeping,—
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            The drown'd, whose parting breath
                            Is caught by wild winds only,—
                            Theirs is the bitter death,
                            Beloved, for they die lonely!
                        
                        
                            X.
                            But thus, tho' rack'd, to lie,
                            Thou near, tho' full of sadness,
                            Leaves still, e'en while I die,
                            A lingering gleam of gladness!
                        
                        
                            XI.
                            I feel not half my pain
                            When to mine thy fond lip presses,—
                            I warm to life again
                            Beneath thy soft caresses!
                        
                        
                        
                            XII.
                            Once more, oh! yet once more
                            Fling, fling thy white arms round me,
                            As oft in days of yore
                            Their gentle clasp hath bound me;
                        
                        
                            XIII.
                            And hold me to that breast
                            Which heaves so full with sorrow—
                            Who knows where I may rest
                            In the dark and blank to-morrow?
                        
                        
                            XIV.
                            Ah! weep not—it shall be
                            An after-thought to cheer thee,
                            That while mine eyes could see,
                            And while mine ears could hear thee—
                        
                        
                            XV.
                            Thy voice and smile were still
                            The spells on which I doated,
                            And thou, through good and ill,
                            To me and mine devoted!
                        
                        
                        
                            XVI.
                            And calmly by my tomb,
                            When the low bright day declineth,
                            And athwart the cypress gloom
                            The mellow sunset shineth,—
                        
                        
                            XVII.
                            Thou'lt sit and think of Him,
                            Who, of Heaven's immortal splendour,
                            Had a dream on earth, though dim,
                            In thy love so pure and tender,—
                        
                        
                            XVIII.
                            Who scarcely feels thy touch,—
                            Whom thy voice can rouse no longer,—
                            But whose love on earth was such,
                            That only death was stronger.
                        
                        
                            XIX.
                            Yes, sit, but not in tears!
                            Thine eyes in faith uplifting,
                            From thy lot of changeful years,
                            To the Heaven where naught is shifting.
                        
                        
                        
                            XX.
                            From this world, where all who love
                            Are doomed alike to sever,
                            To the glorious realms above,
                            Where they dwell in peace for ever!
                        
                        
                            XXI.
                            And then such hope shall beam
                            From the grave where I lie sleeping,
                            This bitter hour shall seem
                            Too vague and far for weeping—
                        
                        
                            XXII.
                            And grief—ah! hold me now!
                            My fluttering pulse is failing,—
                            The death-dews chill my brow,—
                            The morning light is paling!
                        
                        
                            XXIII.
                            I seek thy gaze in vain,—
                            Earth reels and fades before me;
                            I die!—but feel no pain,—
                            Thy sweet face shining o'er me!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        I CANNOT LOVE THEE!
                        
                            I CANNOT love thee, tho' thy soul
                            Be one which all good thoughts control;
                            Altho' thy eyes be starry bright,
                            And the gleams of golden light
                            Fall upon thy silken hair,
                            And thy forehead, broad and fair;
                            Something of a cold disgust,
                            (Wonderful, and most unjust,)
                            Something of a sullen fear
                            Weighs my heart when thou art near;
                            And my soul, which cannot twine
                            Thought or sympathy with thine,
                            With a coward instinct tries
                            To hide from thy enamour'd eyes,
                            Wishing for a sudden blindness
                            To escape those looks of kindness;
                            
                            Sad she folds her shivering wings
                            From the love thy spirit brings,
                            Like a chainéd thing, caress'd
                            By the hand it knows the best,
                            By the hand which, day by day,
                            Visits its imprison'd stay,
                            Bringing gifts of fruit and blossom
                            From the green earth's plenteous bosom;
                            All but that for which it pines
                            In those narrow close confines,
                            With a sad and ceaseless sigh—
                            Wild and wingéd Liberty!
                            
                                
                                    Can it be, no instinct dwells
                                    In th' immortal soul, which tells
                                    That thy love, oh! human brother,
                                    Is unwelcome to another?
                                    Can the changeful wavering eye,
                                    Raised to thine in forced reply,—
                                    Can the cold constrainéd smile,
                                    Shrinking from thee all the while,—
                                    Satisfy thy heart, or prove
                                    Such a likeness of true love?
                                
                                
                                
                                    Seems to me, that I should guess
                                    By what a world of bitterness,
                                    By what a gulf of hopeless care,
                                    Our two hearts divided were:
                                    Seems to me that I should know
                                    All the dread that lurk'd below,
                                    By want of answer found
                                    In the voice's trembling sound;
                                    By the unresponsive gaze;
                                    By the smile which vainly plays,
                                    In whose cold imperfect birth
                                    Glows no fondness, lives no mirth;
                                    By the sigh, whose different tone
                                    Hath no echo of thine own;
                                    By the hand's cold clasp, which still
                                    Held as not of its free will,
                                    Shrinks, as it for freedom yearn'd;—
                                    That my love was unreturn'd.
                                
                                
                                    When thy tongue (ah! woe is me!)
                                    Whispers love-vows tenderly,
                                    Mine is shaping, all unheard,
                                    Fragments of some withering word,
                                    
                                    Which, by its complete farewell,
                                    Shall divide us like a spell!
                                    And my heart beats loud and fast,
                                    Wishing that confession past;
                                    And the tide of anguish rises,
                                    Till its strength my soul surprises,
                                    And the reckless words, unspoken,
                                    Nearly have the silence broken,
                                    With a gush like some wild river,—
                                    “Oh! depart, depart for ever!”
                                
                                
                                    But my faltering courage fails,
                                    And my drooping spirit quails;
                                    So sweet-earnest looks thy smile
                                    Full of tenderness the while,
                                    And with such strange pow'r are gifted
                                    The eyes to which my own are lifted;
                                    So my faint heart dies away,
                                    And my lip can nothing say,
                                    And I long to be alone,—
                                    For I weep when thou are gone!
                                
                                
                                    Yes, I weep, but then my soul
                                    Free to ponder o'er the whole,
                                    
                                    Free from fears which check'd its thought,
                                    And the pain thy presence brought,
                                    Whispers me the useless lie,—
                                    “For thy love he will not die,
                                    Such pity is but vanity.”
                                    And I bend my weary head
                                    O'er the tablets open spread,
                                    Whose fair pages me invite
                                    All I dared not say to write;
                                    And my fingers take the pen,
                                    And my heart feels braced again
                                    With a resolute intent;—
                                    But, ere yet that page be sent,
                                    Once I view the written words
                                    Which must break thy true heart's chords;
                                    And a vision, piercing bright,
                                    Rises on my coward sight,
                                    Of thy fond hand, gladly taking
                                    What must set thy bosom aching;
                                    While too soon the brittle seal
                                    Bids the page the worst reveal,
                                    Blending in thy eager gaze—
                                    Scorn, and anguish, and amaze.
                                
                                
                                
                                    Powerless, then, my hand reposes
                                    On the tablet which it closes,
                                    With a cold and shivering sense
                                    Born of Truth's omnipotence:
                                    And my weeping blots the leaves,
                                    And my sinking spirit grieves,
                                    Humbled in that bitter hour
                                    By the very consciousness of power!
                                    What am I, that I should be
                                    Such a source of woe to thee?
                                    What am I, that I should dare
                                    Thus to play with thy despair,
                                    And persuade myself that thou
                                    Wilt not bend beneath the blow?
                                
                                
                                    Rather should my conscience move
                                    Me to think of this vain love,
                                    Which my life of peace beguiles,
                                    As a tax on foolish smiles,
                                    Which—like light not meant for one
                                    Who, wandering in the dark alone,
                                    Hath yet been tempted by its ray
                                    To turn aside and lose his way—
                                    
                                    Binds me, by their careless sin,
                                    To take the misled wanderer in.
                                
                                
                                    And I praise thee, as I go,
                                    Wandering, weary, full of woe,
                                    To my own unwilling heart;
                                    Cheating it to take thy part
                                    By rehearsing each rare merit
                                    Which thy nature doth inherit.
                                    To myself their list I give,
                                    Most prosaic, positive:—
                                    How thy heart is good and true,
                                    And thy face most fair to view;
                                    How the powers of thy mind
                                    Flatterers in the wisest find,
                                    And the talents God hath given
                                    Seem as held in trust for Heaven;
                                    Labouring on for noble ends,—
                                    Steady to thy boyhood's friends,—
                                    Slow to give, or take, offence,—
                                    Full of earnest eloquence,—
                                    Hopeful, eager, gay of cheer,—
                                    Frank in all thy dealings here,—
                                    
                                    Ready to redress the wrong
                                    Of the weak against the strong,—
                                    Keeping up an honest pride
                                    With those the world hath deified,
                                    But gently bending heart and brow
                                    To the helpless and the low;—
                                    How, in brief, there dwells in thee
                                    All tht's generous and free,
                                    All that may most aptly move
                                    My Spirit to an answering love.
                                
                                
                                    But in vain the tale is told;
                                    Still my heart lies dead and cold,
                                    Still it wanders and rebels
                                    From the thought that thus compels,
                                    And refuses to rejoice
                                    Save in unconstrain?d choice.
                                
                                
                                    Therefore, when thine eyes shall read
                                    This, my book, oh take thou heed!
                                    In the dim lines written here,
                                    All shall be explained and clear;
                                    
                                    All my lips could never speak
                                    When my heart grew coward-weak,—
                                    All my hand could never write,
                                    Tho' I planned it day and night,—
                                    All shall be at length confest,
                                    And thou'lt forgive,—and let me rest!
                                    None but thou and I shall know
                                    Whose the doom, and whose the woe;
                                    None but thou and I shall share
                                    In the secret printed there;
                                    It shall be a secret still,
                                    Tho' all look on it at will;
                                    And the eye shall read in vain
                                    What the heart cannot explain.
                                    Each one, baffled in his turn,
                                    Shall no more its aim discern,
                                    Than a wanderer who might look
                                    On some wizard's magic book,
                                    Of the darkly-worded spell
                                    Where deep-hidden meanings dwell.
                                    Memory, fancy, they shall task
                                    This sad riddle to unmask,—
                                    Or, with bold conjectural fame,
                                    Fit the pages with a name;—
                                    
                                    But nothing shall they understand,
                                    And vainly shall the stanger's hand
                                    Essay to fling the leaves apart,
                                    Which bear MY message to THY heart!
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE POET'S CHOICE.
                        
                            I.
                            'Twas in youth, that hour of dreaming;
                            Round me, visions fair were beaming,
                            Golden fancies, brightly gleaming,
                            Such as start to birth
                            When the wandering restless mind,
                            Drunk with beauty, thinks to find
                            Creatures of a fairy kind
                            Realised on Earth!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Then, for me, in every dell
                            Hamadryads seem'd to dwell
                            (They who die, as Poets tell,
                            Each with her own tree);
                            And sweet mermaids, low reclining,
                            Dim light through their grottos shining,
                            Green weeds round their soft limbs twinng,
                            Peopled the deep Sea.
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Then, when moon and stars were fair,
                            Nymph-like visions fill'd the air,
                            With blue wings and golden hair
                            Bending from the skies;
                            And each cave by echo haunted
                            In its depth of shadow granted,
                            Brightly, the Egeria wanted,
                            To my eager eyes.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            But those glories pass'd away;
                            Earth seem'd left to dull decay,
                            And my heart in sadness lay,
                            Desolate, uncheer'd;
                            Like one wrapt in painful sleeping,
                            Pining, thirsting, waaking, weeping,
                            Watsh thro' Life's dark midnight keeping,
                            Till THY form appear'd!
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            THEN my soul, whose erring measure
                            Knew not where to find true pleasure
                            Woke and seized the golden treasure
                            Of thy human love;
                            And, looking on thy radiant brow,
                            My lips in gladness breathed the vow
                            Which angels, not more fair than thou,
                            Have register'd above.
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            And now I take my quiet rest,
                            With my head upon thy breast,
                            I will make no fiurther quest
                            In Fancy's realms of light;
                            Fay, nor nymph, nor wing?d spirit,
                            Shall my store of love inherit;
                            More thy mortal charm doth merit
                            Than dream, however bright:
                        
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            And my soul,-like some sweet bird
                            Whose song at summer eve is heard,
                            When the breeze, so lightly stirr'd,
                            Leaves the branch unbent,—
                            Sits and all-triumphant sings,
                            Folding up her brooding wings,
                            And gazing out on earthly things
                            With a calm content.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE GERMAN STUDENT'S LOVE-SONG.
                        
                            “Ich liebe dich!”
                        
                        
                            I.
                            
                                BY the rush of the Rhine's broad stream,
                                Down whose rapid tide
                                We sailed as in some sweet dream
                                Sitting side by side;
                                By the depth of its clear blue wave
                                And the vine-clad hills,
                                Which gazed on its heart and gave
                                Their tribute rills;
                            
                            
                                By the mountains, in purple shade,
                                And those valleys green
                                Where our bower of rest was made,
                                By the world unseen;
                                
                                By the notes of the wild free bird,
                                Singing over-head
                                When nought else in the sunshine stirr'd
                                Round our flowery bed;
                            
                            
                                By these, and by Love's power divine,
                                I have no thought but what is thine!
                            
                        
                        
                            II.
                            
                                By the glance of thy radiant eyes,
                                Where a glory shone
                                That was half of the summer skies
                                And half their own;
                                By the light and yet fervent hold
                                Of thy gentle hand,—
                                (As the woodbines the flowers enfold
                                With their tender band;)
                            
                            
                                By thy voice when it breathes in song,
                                And the echo given
                                By lips that to Earth belong,
                                Float up to Heaven;
                                
                                By the gleams on thy silken hair
                                At the sunset hour,
                                And the breadth of they forehead fair
                                With its thoughtful power;
                            
                            
                                By these, and by Love's soul divine,
                                I have no hope but what is thine!
                            
                        
                        
                            III.
                            
                                By the beauty and stilness round
                                When the lake's lone shore
                                Scarce echoed the pleasant sound
                                Of the distant oar;
                                By the moonlight which softly fell
                                On all objects near,
                                And thy whisper seemed like a spell
                                In thy Lover's ear;
                            
                            
                                By the dreams of the restless past,
                                And the hope that came
                                Like sunshine in shadow cast
                                With thy gentle name;
                                
                                By the beat of thy good true heart
                                Where pure thoughts have birth;
                                By thy tears, when Fate bade us part,
                                And thy smiles of mirth;
                            
                            
                                By these, and by Love's power divine,
                                I have no hope but what is thine!
                            
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            
                                By the gloom of those holy fanes
                                Where the light stream'd through
                                Dim orange and purple panes
                                On the aisles below;
                                By the ruin'd and roofless wall
                                Of that castle high,
                                With its turrets so grey and tall
                                In the clear blue sky;
                            
                            
                                By beauty, because its light
                                Should thy portion be,
                                And whatever is fair and bright
                                Seems a part of thee;
                                
                                And by darkness and blank decay,
                                Because they tell
                                What the world would be, THOU away,
                                Whom I love so well;
                            
                            
                                By these, and by Love's power divine,
                                My heart, my soul, my life, are thine!
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE HUNTING-HORN OF CHARLEMAGNE.
                        [Among other relics preserved in the Cathedral at
                            Aix-la-Chapelle is the ivory hunting-horn of Charlemagne. It is massive
                            and heavy, and the attempt of the guide to sound it (for the amusement
                            of tourists and strangers) is singularly unsuccessful, the note produced
                            being the most faint and lugubrious which it is possible to
                            conceive.]
                        
                            SOUND not the Horn!—the guarded relic keep:
                            A faithful sharer of its master's sleep:
                            His life it gladden'd—to his life belong'd,—
                            Pause—ere thy lip the royal dead hath wrong'd.
                            Its weary weight but mocks thy feeble hand;
                            Its desolate note, the shrine wherein we stand.
                            Not such the sound it gave in days of yore,
                            When that rich belt a monarch's bosom wore,—
                            Not such the sound! Far over hill and dell
                            It waked the echoes with triumphant swell;
                            
                            Heard midst the rushing of the torrent's fall,
                            From castled crag to roofless ruin'd hall,
                            Down the ravine's precipitous descent,
                            Thro' the wild forest's rustling boughs it went,
                            Upon the lake's blue bosom linger'd fond,
                            And faintly answer'd from the hills beyond:
                        
                        
                            Pause!—the free winds that joyous blast have borne:—
                            Dead is the hunter!—silent be the horn!
                        
                        
                            Sound not the horn! Bethink thee of the day
                            When to the chase an Emperor led the way;
                            In all the pride of manhood's noblest prime,
                            Untamed by sorrow, and untired by time,
                            Life's pulses throbbing in his eager breast,
                            Glad, active, vigorous,—who is now at rest:—
                            How he gazed round him with his eagle eye,
                            Leapt the dark rocks that frown against the sky,
                            Grasp'd the long spear, and curb'd the panting steed
                            (Whose fine nerves quiver with his headlong speed),
                            At the wild cry of danger smiled in scorn,
                            And firmly sounded that re-echoing horn!
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah! let no touch the ivory tube profane
                            Which drank the breath of living Charlemagne;
                            Let not like blast by meaner lips be blown,
                            But by the hunter's side the horn lay down!
                        
                        
                            Or, following to his palace, dream we now
                            Not of the hunter's strength, or forest bough,
                            But woman's love! HER offering this, perchance,—
                            This, granted to each stranger's casual glance,
                            This, gazed upon with coldly curious eyes,
                            Was giv'n with blushes, and received with sighs!
                            We see her not;—no mournful angel stands
                            To guard her love-gift from our careless hands;
                            But fancy brings a vision to our view—
                            A woman's form, the trusted and the true:
                            The strong to suffer, tho' so weak to dare
                            Patient to watch thro' many a day of care,
                            Devoted, anxious, generous, void of guile,
                            And with her whole heart's welcome in her smile;
                            Even such I see! Her maidens, too, are there,
                            And wake, with chorus sweet, some native air;
                            But tho' her proud heart holds her country dear,
                            And tho' she loves those happy songs to hear,
                            
                            She bids the tale be hush'd, the harp be still,
                            For one faint blast that dies along the hill.
                            Up, up, she springs; her young head backward thrown;
                            “He comes! my hunter comes!—Mine own—mine own!”
                        
                        
                            She loves, and she is loved—her gift is worn—
                            'Tis fancy, all!—And yet—lay down the horn!
                        
                        
                            Love—life—what are ye?—since to love and live
                            No surer record to our times can give!
                            Low lies the hero now, whose spoken name
                            Could fire with glory, or with love inflame;
                            Low lies the arm of might, the form of pride,
                            And dim tradition dreameth by his side.
                            Desolate stand those painted palace-halls,
                            And gradual ruin mines the massy walls,
                            Where frank hearts greeted many a welcome guest,
                            And loudly rang the beaker and the jest;—
                            While here, within this chapel's narrow bound,
                            Whose frozen silence startles to the sound
                            Of stranger voices ringing thro' the air,
                            Of faintly echoes many a humble prayer;
                            
                            Here, where the window, narrow arch'd, and high,
                            With jealous bars shuts out the free blue sky,—
                            Where glimmers down, with various-painted ray,
                            A prison'd portion of God's glorious day,—
                            Where never comes the breezy breath of morn,
                            Here, mighty hunter, feebly wakes thy horn!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE FAITHFUL FRIEND.
                        
                            
                                “Coming through the churchyard here, I espied a young man who had
                                    flung himself down on a grave to weep, and who ever and anon
                                    repeated, with most passionate lamentations, “O, friend!
                                    faithful friend!” Respecting his grief, I passed on, marvelling
                                    as I went what manner of man he had been who slept under that
                                    stone.”
                                —Letters of a Tourist.
                            
                        
                        
                            O, FRIEND! whose heart the grave doth shroud from
                                human joy or woe,
                            Know'st thou who wanders by thy tomb, with footsteps sad and
                                slow?
                            Know'st thou whose brow is dark with grief? whose eyes are dim with
                                tears?
                            Whose restless soul is sinking with its agony of fears?
                            Whose hope hath fail'd, whose star hath sunk, whose firmest trust
                                deceived,
                            Since, leaning on thy faithful breast, he loved and believed?
                            
                            'Tis I!—Return and comfort me, for old remembrance' sake,—
                            From the long silence of the tomb—the cheerless tomb—awake!
                            I listen—all is still as death—no welcome step is nigh,—
                            I call thee, but thou answerest not—the grave hath no reply!
                            But mournfully the strange bright sun shines on thy funeral
                                stone,
                            And sadly, in the cypress bough, the wild wind makes her moan.
                        
                        
                            When we were young, and cheerfully the promised future
                                glow'd,
                            I little thought to stand alone by this thy last abode;
                            I little thought, in early days, O generous and kind!
                            That THOU, the first, shouldst quit the earth, and leave me, wreck'd,
                                behind.
                        
                        
                            Thine was the pure unjealous love! I know they told us
                                then
                            That Genius's gifts divided me from dull and common men;
                            
                            That thou wert slow to science; that the chrat and letter'd page
                            Had in them no deep spell whereby thy spirit to engage;
                            But rather thou wouldst sail thy boat, or sound thy bugle horn,
                            Or track the sportsman's triumph thro' the fields of waving corn,
                            Than o'er the pond'rous histories of other ages bend,
                            And it was true! Our minds were cast as pleased the will of
                                Heaven,
                            And different powers unto me, and unto thee, were given!
                            No trick of talent deck'd thy speech and glorified thy youth,—
                            Its simple spell of eloquence lay in its earnest truth;
                            Nor was the gladsome kindliness which brighten'd on thy brow,
                            The beauty which in fiction wins Love's fond romantic vow;
                            But gazing on thine honest face, intelligently bold,
                            Oft have I doubted of the gifts which men so precious hold,—
                            Wit, learning, wealth, seem'd overprized, since thou, dear friend,
                                couldst be
                            So closely knit unto my heart by thy simplicity.
                        
                        
                        
                            The worldly-wise may sneer at this, and scorn thee, if
                                they will,—
                            THY judgment was not sharpen'd by the cunning of their skill;
                            No deep and calculating thoughts lay buried in thy breast,
                            To chill and vex thy honest heart, and startle it from rest;
                            No dream of cold philosophy, to make thee doubt and sigh,
                            And fawn and flatter half thy kind, and pass the others by!
                            And there thou liest forgotten—thou faithful friend, and true—
                            Thy resting-place beneath the cold damp shadow of the yew;
                            And quietly within the tomb's dark precincts wert thou laid,
                            As a faded leaf unnoticed drops within the forest's shade.
                        
                        
                            How should the world have tears for thee!—the world hath
                                nothing lost—
                            No parent's high ambitious hope THY early death hath crost;
                            No sculptured falsehood gives to fame thy monumental stone,—
                            From the glory of our Senate-house, nor orator is gone:
                            
                            Science hath lost no well-known name,—no soldier's heart shall
                                bound,
                            Linking old England's victories with that inglorious sound;
                            No jealous and tomb-trampling foe shall find it worth his while,
                            With a false history of thy acts, thy country to beguile;
                            No mercenary hand in haste prepare the letter'd tome,
                            And publicly reveal the fond small weaknesses of Home;
                            Not some vainglorious friend (who yet hath lov'd thee to the
                                last)
                            Permit all men to buy and sell his records of the past;
                            Nor give thy living letters up, nor print thy dying words;
                            Nor sweep with sacrilegious hand Affection's holy chords;
                            Nor with a frozen after-thought dissect thy generous heart,
                            And count each pulse that bid thy blood gush with a quicker
                                start.
                        
                        
                            No! Blest OBSCURITY was thine! In sacred darkness
                                dwells
                            The mem'ry of THY last fond looks and faltering farewells;
                            
                            And none shall drag thy actions forth, for Slander or for Praise,
                            To that broad light which never glowed round thy unnoticed days.
                            At times a recollected jest, or snatch of merry song,
                            Which was so thine, that still to thee its ringing notes
                                belong,
                            To boon companions back again thy image may recal,—
                            But lightly sits thy memory, oh Faithful Friend, on all!
                            The old house still hath echoes glad; tho' silent be thy voice,
                            Thy empty place at bed and board forbids not to rejoice!
                            Still with its white and gleaming sail, by strangers launch'd to
                                float
                            Across the blue lake in the sun, glides on thy little boat;
                            Thy steed another rider backs,—thy dogs new masters find,
                            But I,—I mourn thy absence still, thou generous and
                                kind:
                            Since I have lost thy pleasant smile, and voice of ringing mirth,
                            A silence and a darkness seems come down upon the earth;
                            A weight sits heavy on my heart, and clogs my weary feet,
                            For, wander where I will, thy glance I never more shall
                                meet.
                            
                            I cannot knit my soul again; my thoughts are wide astray
                            When others by my side would wile an hour or two away;
                            My door flings wide to welcome in some less familiar face,
                            And my heart struggles hard to fill thy ever vacant place;
                            But all is vain! Dim thoughts of THEE across my bosom steal,
                            And still, the louder mirth around, the lonelier I feel;
                            Yea, even that should make me proud, the laurel wreath of Fame
                            But brings me back our early days, and the echo of thy name;
                            But brings me back thy cheerful smile, when yet a careless boy,
                            Mine was the toil, but thou didst share the glory and the joy;
                            And bright across the awarded prize thy kind eye answer'd mine,
                            As full of triumph and delight as though that prize were thine.
                            Yes! all is vain! I want not Wit, I want not Learning's power,
                            I want THY hand, I want THY smile to pass the cheerless hour;
                            
                            I want thy earnest, honest voice, whose comfort never fail'd;
                            I want thy kindly glance, whose light no coldness ever veil'd;
                            I feel at every turn of life thy loss hath left me lone,
                            And I mourn the friend of boyhood's years, the friend for ever
                                gone!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        TO FERDINAND SEYMOUR.
                        
                            ROSY child, with forehead fair,
                            Coral lip, and shining hair,
                            In whose mirthful, clever eyes
                            Such a world of gladness lies;
                            As thy loose curls idly straying
                            O'er thy mother's cheek, while playing,
                            Blend her soft lock's shadowy twine
                            With the glittering light of thine,—
                            Who shall say, who gazes now,
                            Which is fairest, she or thou?
                        
                        
                            In sweet contrast are ye met,
                            Such as heart could ne'er forget:
                            Thou art brilliant as a flower,
                            Crimsoning in the sunny hour;
                            Merry as a singing-bird,
                            In the green wood sweetly heard;
                            
                            Restless as if fluttering wings
                            Bore thee on thy wanderings;
                            Ignorant of all distress,
                            Full of childhood's carelessness.
                        
                        
                            She is gentle; she hath known
                            Something of the echoed tone
                            Sorrow leaves, where'er it goes,
                            In this world of many woes.
                            On her brow such shadows are
                            As the faint cloud gives the star,
                            Veiling its most holy light,
                            Tho' it still be pure and bright;
                            And the colour in her cheek
                            To the hue on thine is weak,
                            Save when flush'd with sweet surprise,
                            Sudden welcomes light her eyes;
                            And her softly chisel'd face
                            (But for living, moving grace)
                            Looks like one of those which beam
                            In th' Italian painter's dream,—
                            Some beloved Madonna, bending
                            O'er the infant she is tending;
                            
                            Holy, bright, and undefiled
                            Mother of the Heaven-born child;
                            Who, tho' painted strangely fair,
                            Seems but made for holy prayer,
                            Pity, tears, and sweet appeal,
                            And fondness such as angels feel;
                            Baffling earthly passion's sigh
                            With serenest majesty!
                        
                        
                            Oh! may those enshrouded years
                            Whose fair dawn alone appears,—
                            May that brightly budding life,
                            Knowing yet not sin nor strife,—
                            Bring its store of hoped-for joy,
                            Mother, to thy laughing boy!
                            And the good thou dost impart
                            Lies deep-treasured in his heart,
                            That, when he at length shall strive
                            In the bad world where we live,
                            THY sweet name may still be blest
                            As one who taught his soul true rest!
                        
                        
                            Maiden-Bradley, 1838.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE WINTER'S WALK.
                        [Written after walking with Mr. Rogers.]
                        
                            MARK'D—as the hours should be, Fate bids us
                                spend
                            With one illustrious, or a cherish'd friend—
                            Rich in the value of that double claim,
                            Since Fame allots the friend a Poet's name,—
                            My “Winter's Walk” asserts its right to live
                            Amongst the brightest thoughts my life can give,
                            And leaves a track of light on Memory's way
                            Which oft shall gild the future Summer's day.
                        
                        
                            Gleam'd the red sun athwart the misty haze
                            Which veil'd the cold earth from its loving gaze,
                            Feeble and sad as Hope in Sorrow's hour,
                            But for THY soul it still had warmth and power;
                            Not to its cheerless beauty wert thou blind,
                            To the keen eye of thy poetic mind
                            
                            Beauty still lives, tho' nature's flow'rets die,
                            And wintry sunsets fade along the sky!
                            And nought escaped thee as we stroll'd along,
                            Nor changeful ray, nor bird's faint chirping song;
                            Bless'd with a fancy easily inspired,
                            All was beheld, and nothing unadmired;
                            Not one of all God's blessings giv'n in vain,
                            From the dim city to the clouded plain.
                        
                        
                            And many an anecdote of other times,—
                            Good earnest deeds,—quaint wit,—and polished rhymes,—
                            Many a sweet story of remembered years
                            Which thrilled the listening heart with unshed tears,—
                            Unweariedly thy willing tongue rehearsed,
                            And made the hour seem brief as we conversed.
                        
                        
                            Ah! who can e'er forget, who once hath heard,
                            The gentle charm that dwells in every word
                            Of thy calm converse? In its kind allied
                            To some fair river's bright abundant tide,
                            Whose silver gushing current onward goes,
                            Fluent and varying; yet with such repose
                            
                            As smiles even through the flashings of thy wit,
                            In every eddy that doth ruffle it.
                            Who can forget, who at thy social board
                            Hath sat,—and seen the pictures richly stored,
                            In all their tints of glory and of gloom,
                            Brightening the precincts of thy quiet room;
                            With busts and statues fall of that deep grace
                            Which modern hands have lost the skill to trace,
                            (Fragments of beauty—perfect as thy song
                            On that sweet land to which they did belong,)
                            Th' exact and classic taste bv thee displayed;
                            Not with a rich man's idle fond parade,
                            Not with the pomp of some vain connoisseur
                            Proud of his bargains, of his judgment sure,
                            But with the feelings kind and sad, of one
                            Who thro' far countries wandering hath gone,
                            And brought away dear keepsakes, to remind
                            His heart and home of all he left behind.
                        
                        
                            But wherefore these, in feeble rhyme recal?
                            Thy taste, thy wit, thy verse, are known to all;
                            Such things are for the World, and therefore doth
                            The World speak of them; loud, and nothing loth
                            
                            To fancy that the talent stamped by Heaven
                            Is nought unless their echoed praise be given,
                            A worthless ore not yet allowed to shine,
                            A diamond darkly buried in its mine.
                            These are thy daylight qualities, whereon
                            Beams the full lustre of their garish sun,
                            And the keen point of many a famed reply
                            Is what they would not “willingly let die.”
                            But by a holier light thy angel reads
                            The unseen records of more gentle deeds,—
                            And by a holier light thy angel sees
                            The tear oft shed for humble miseries,—
                            The alms dropp'd gently in the beggar's hand,
                            (Who in his daily poverty doth stand
                            Watching for kindness on thy pale calm brow,
                            Ignorant to whom he breathes his grateful vow).
                            Th' indulgent hour of kindness stol'n away
                            From the free leisure of thy well-spent day,
                            For some poor struggling Son of Genius, bent
                            Under the weight of heart-sick discontent;
                            Whose prayer thou hearest, mindful of the schemes
                            Of thine own youth;—the hopes, the fever-dreams
                            Of Fame and Glory which seemed hovering then,
                            (Nor only seemed) upon thy magic pen;
                            
                            And measuring not how much beneath thine own
                            Is the sick mind thus pining to be known,
                            But only what a wealth of hope lies hushed
                            As in a grave,—when men like these are crushed!
                        
                        
                            And by that light's soft radiance I
                                review
                            Thy unpretending kindness, calm and true,
                            Not to me only,—but in bitterest hours
                            To one whom Heaven endowed with varied powers;
                            To one who died, e'er yet my childish heart
                            Knew what Fame meant, or Slander's fabled dart!
                            Then was the laurel green upon his brow,
                            And they could flatter then, who judge him now;
                            Who, when the fickle breath of fortune changed,
                            With equal falsehood held their love estranged;
                            Nay, like mean wolves, from whelp-hood vainly nurst,
                            Tore at the easy hand that fed them first.
                            Not so didst THOU the ties of friendship break—
                            Not so didst THOU the saddened man forsake;
                            And when at length he laid his dying head
                            On the hard rest of his neglected bed,
                            He found,—(tho' few or none around him came
                            Whom he had toiled for in his hour of Fame;—
                            
                            Though by his Prince, unroyally forgot,
                            And left to struggle with his altered lot;—)
                            By sorrow weakened,—by disease unnerved,—
                            Faithful at least the friend he had not served:
                            For the same voice essayed that hour to cheer,
                            Which now sounds welcome to his grandchild's ear;
                            And the same hand, to aid that Life's decline,
                            Whose gentle clasp so late was linked in mine!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE REPRIEVE.
                        [Suggested by a beautiful little Picture painted by
                            J.R. Herbert, Esq., representing, in the foreground, a Woman pleading
                            with a Warrior, and, in the background, preparations for an
                            Execution.]
                        
                            A MOMENT since, he stood unmoved—alone;
                            Courage and thought on his resolv?d brow;
                            But hope is quivering in the broken tone,
                            Whose bitter anguish seems to shake him now:
                            Her light foot woke no echo as it came,
                            The rustling robe her sudden swiftness told;
                            She pleads for one who dies a death of shame;
                            She pleads—for agony and love are bold.
                        
                        
                            “Oh! hear me, thou, who in the sunshine's glare
                            So calmly waitest till the warning bell
                            Shall of the closing hour of his despair
                            In gloomy notes of muffled triumph tell.
                            
                            Let him not die! Avenging Heaven is just;
                            Thine, a like fate in after years may be:
                            Thy forfeit head may gasping bite the dust,
                            While those thou lovest, plead in vain for
                                thee!
                            Thou smilest sternly: thou could'st well brave death;
                            Hast braved it often on the tented field.
                            So fought my hero on th' ensanguined
                                heath,
                            With desperate strength, that knew not how to yield:
                            But oh! the death whose punctual hour is set,
                            And waited for mid lingering thoughts of pain;
                            Where no excitement bids the heart forget,
                            And skill and courage are alike in vain;
                            Who shall find strength for that?—Oh! man,
                                to whom
                            Fate, chance, or what thou wilt, hath given this hour—
                            Upon whose will depends his dreaded doom—
                            Doth it not awe thee, thinking of thy power?
                            In the wide battle's hot and furious rage,
                            Where the mix'd banners flutter to and fro,
                            Where all alike the desperate combat wage,
                            One of a thousand swords may pierce him through:
                            But, now, his life is in thy single
                                hand:
                            To thee the strange and startling power is given—
                            And thou shalt answer for this day's command
                            When ye stand face to face in God's own Heaven.
                            
                            Bear with me! pardon me this sudden start!
                            My words are bitter, for my heart is sore;
                            And oh! dark soldier of the iron heart,
                            Fain would I learn the speech should touch thee more!
                            He hath a mother—age hath dimm'd her sight—
                            But when his quick returning step comes nigh,
                            She smiles, as though she saw a sudden light,
                            And turns to bless him with a stifled sigh.
                            When to her arms a lonely wretch I go,
                            And she doth ask for him, the true and the brave,
                            While on her cheek faint smiles of welcome glow,
                            How shall I answer ‘he is in the grave!’
                            He hath a little son—a mirthful boy,
                            Whose coral lips with ready smiles are curl'd;
                            Wilt thou quench all the spring-time of his joy,
                            And leave him orphan in a friendless world?
                            Hast thou no children?—Do no visions
                                come,
                            When the low night-wind through the poplar grieves—
                            Echoes of farewell voices—sounds of home—
                            For which thy busy day no leisure leaves?
                            Some one doth love thee—some one thou dost love—
                            (For such the blessed lot of all on earth,)
                            Some one to whom thy thoughts oft fondly rove,
                            The sharer of thy sorrows and thy mirth;
                            
                            Who with dim weeping eyes, and thoughts that burn,
                            Sees thy proud form lead forth th' embattled host;
                            To whom ‘a victory’ speaks of thy
                                return—
                            And ‘a defeat’ means only thou are lost!
                            If such there be, (and on thy helm-worn brow
                            Sternness, not cruelty, doth seem to reign,)
                            Think it is she, who kneels before thee now,
                            Her heart which bursts with agony of pain.
                        
                        
                            “Hark—'T is the warning stroke—his hour is come—
                            I hear the bell slow clanging on the air—
                            I hear the beating of the muffled drum—
                            Thou hast a moment yet to save and spare!
                            Oh! when returning to thy native land,
                            Greeted with grateful tears and loud acclaim;
                            While gazing on thy homeward march they stand,
                            And smiling children shout thy welcome name:
                            How wilt thou bear the joyous village chimes,
                            Whose ringing peals remind thee of to-day—
                            Will not my image haunt thee at those times?
                            And my hoarse desperate voice seem yet to pray?
                            When thy long term of bloody toil is past,
                            And the hush'd trumpet calls no more to arms—
                            Will not his death thy tranquil brow
                                o'ercast,
                            And rob that peaceful hour of half its charms?
                            
                            When thy child's mother bends thy lip to press,
                            And her true hand lies clasp'd within thine own—
                            Will her low voice have perfect power to bless,
                            Remembering me, the widow'd and the lone?
                            When they embrace thee—when they welcome thee—
                            By all my hopes of Heaven, thy brow relents!
                            Oh! sign the paper—let his life go free—
                            Give it me quick!”—
                            “What ho! Raise her—the woman faints!”
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE FAITHFUL GUARDIAN.
                        [Suggested by Mr. Edwin Landseer's
                            celebrated Picture of the Marquis of Abercorn's Children.]
                        
                            Two beautiful and rosy babes are pictured here alone,
                            Two infants of a noble race, as any near the throne:—
                            And, in the cradle's shadow, lies a stately-looking hound,
                            His fine limbs full of strength and grace, couched humbly on the
                                ground:
                            Humbly upon the ground lies he: while from the young
                                child's arm
                            A jealous spaniel snarling peeps, whom no caress can charm;
                            Though close that dimpled arm is bent, as though its clasp would
                                fain
                            Its spoiled companion's idle wrath to gentleness restrain;
                            
                            Small need of care! The stately hound, still calm and couchant
                                lies,
                            With lazy kindness lifting up his wise and honest eyes;
                            Declaring by the emblem meet of his serene repose,
                            How frankly generous hearts can bear the baiting of mean foes.
                        
                        
                            Not so, 0! noble-natured brute, would'st thou quiescent rest,
                            If the soumd of danger roused the blood within thy valiant
                                breast;
                            If near these helpless little fays,—thy master's children—came
                            The doubtful tread of stranger's feet, on whom they had no claim;
                        
                        
                            Then, then, upspringing with a bound;—aroused for their
                                defence,—
                            Each nerve would arm with savage strength thy keen and eager
                                sense,
                            And the darkly gleaming eyes where now such softened shadows
                                play,
                            Would burn like watch-fires, lit at night, to scare the foe away.
                            
                            And were the danger real to these, by whom thy watch is
                                kept,—
                            E'er a rough hand should dare profane the cradle where they
                                slept,
                            E'er a rude step should reach the spot where now they smile at
                                play,—
                            Thy fangs would meet within his throat, to hold the wretch at
                                bay!
                        
                        
                            Thou would'st battle, noble creature, for these children of thy
                                lord's,
                            As men fight for a Royal Prince, whose crown hangs on
                                their swords;—
                            Soldiers, who hear their General's cry, by treachery hemm'd in,—
                            Freemen, who strike for home and hearth, 'gainst Tyranny's proud
                                sin,—
                            So would'st thou strive! And bold were he who then could lay thee
                                low,
                            For still thy fierce and mighty grasp would pin the struggling
                                foe,
                            And if keen sword, or human skill, cut short thy gasping breath,
                            Should he be thought thy conqueror? No!—Thy
                                conqueror would be Death.
                        
                        
                        
                            Oh, tried and trusted! Thou whose love ne'er changes nor
                                forsakes,
                            Thou proof how perfect God hath stamped the meanest thing he
                                makes;
                            Thou, whom no snare entraps to serve, no art is used to tame,—
                            (Train'd, like ourselves, thy path to know, by words of love and
                                blame;)
                            Friend! who beside the cottage door, or in the rich man's hall,
                            With steadfast faith still answerest the one familiar call,—
                            Well by poor hearth and lordly home thy couchant form may rest,
                            And Prince and Peasant trust thee still, to guard what they love
                                best!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE FORSAKEN.
                        [Suggested by an Italian picture, of a
                            dying girl, to whom the lute is being played.]
                        
                            I.
                            IT is the music of her native land,—
                            The airs she used to love in happier days;
                            The lute is struck by some young gentle hand,
                            To soothe her spirit with remember'd lays.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            But her sad heart is wandering from the notes,
                            Her ear is fill'd with an imagined strain;
                            Vainly the soften'd music round her floats,
                            The echo it awakes is all of pain!
                        
                        
                            III.
                            The echo it awakes, is of a voice
                            Which never more her weary heart shall cheer;
                            Fain would she banish it, but hath no choice,
                            Its vanish'd sound still haunts her shrinking ear,—
                        
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Still haunts her with its tones of joy and love,
                            Its memories of bitterness and wrong,
                            Bidding her thoughts thro' various changes rove,—
                            Welcomes, farewells, and snatches of wild song.
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Why bring her music? She had half forgot
                            How left, how lonely, how oppress'd she was;
                            Why, by these strains, recal her former lot,
                            The depth of all her suffering, and its cause?
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Know ye not what a spell there is in sound?
                            Know ye not that the melody of words
                            Is nothing to the power that wanders round,
                            Giving vague language to harmonious chords?
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            Oh I keep ye silence! He hath sung to her,
                            And from that hour—(faint twilight, sweet and dim,
                            When the low breeze scarce made the branches stirs)—
                            Music hath been a memory of HIM!
                        
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            Chords which the wandering fingers scarcely touch
                            When they would seek for some forgotten song,—
                            Stray notes which have no certain meaning, such
                            As careless hands unthinkingly prolong,—
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            Come unto HER, fraught with a vivid dream
                            Of love, in all its wild and passionate strength,—
                            Of sunsets, glittering on the purple stream,—
                            Of shadows, deepening into twilight length,—
                        
                        
                            X.
                            Of gentle sounds, when the warm world lay hush'd
                            Beneath the soft breath of the evening air,—
                            Of hopes and fears, and expectations crush'd,
                            By one long certainty of blank despair!
                        
                        
                            XI.
                            Bear to the sick man's couch the fiery cup,
                            Pledged by wild feasters in their riotous hours,
                            And bid his parch'd lips drink the poison up,
                            As tho' its foam held cool refreshing powers,—
                        
                        
                        
                            XII.
                            Lift some poor wounded wretch, whose writhing pain
                            Finds soothing only in an utter rest,
                            Forth in some rude-made litter, to regain
                            Strength for his limbs and vigour for his breast;—
                        
                        
                            XIII.
                            But soothe ye not that proud forsaken heart
                            With strains whose sweetness maddens as they fall;
                            Untroubled let her feverish soul depart—
                            Not long shall memory's power its might enthral;
                        
                        
                            XIV.
                            Not long,—tho' balmy be the summer's breath!
                            In the deep stillness of its golden light,
                            A shadowy spirit sits, whose name is DEATH,
                            And turns, what was all beauty, into blight;
                        
                        
                            XV.
                            And she, before whose sad and dreaming eye
                            Visions of by-gone days are sweeping on,
                            In her unfaded youth shall drooping die,
                            Shut from the glow of that Italian sun:
                        
                        
                        
                            XVI.
                            Then let the organ's solemn notes prolong
                            Their glory round the silence of her grave,
                            Then let the choral voices swell in song
                            And echo thro' the chancel and the nave;
                        
                        
                            XVII.
                            For then her heart shall ache not at the sound,
                            Then the faint fever of her life shall cease
                            Silence, unbroken, calm, shall reign around,
                            And the long restless shall be laid at peace.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE VISIONARY PORTRAIT.
                        
                            I.
                            As by his lonely hearth he sate,
                            The shadow of a welcome dream
                            Pass'd o'er his heart,—disconsolate
                            His home did seem;
                            Comfort in vain was spread around,
                            For something still was wanting found.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Therefore he thought of one who might
                            For ever in his presence stay;
                            Whose dream should be of him by night,
                            Whose smile should be for him by day;
                            And the sweet vision, vague and far,
                            Rose on his fancy like a star.
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            “Let her be young, yet not a child,
                            Whose light and inexperienced mirth
                            Is all too wingéd and too wild
                            For sober earth,—
                            Too rainbow-like such mirth appears,
                            And fades away in misty tears.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            “Let youth's fresh rose still gently bloom
                            Upon her smooth and downy cheek,
                            Yet let a shadow, not of gloom,
                            But soft and meek,
                            Tell that some sorrow she hath known,
                            Tho' not a sorrow of her own.
                        
                        
                            V.
                            “And let her eyes be of the grey,
                            The soft grey of the brooding dove,
                            Full of the sweet and tender ray
                            Of modest love;
                            For fonder shows that dreamy hue
                            Than lustrous black or heavenly blue.
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            “Let her be full of quiet grace,
                            No sparkling wit with sudden glow
                            Bright'ning her purely chisell'd face
                            And placid brow;
                            Not radiant to the stranger's eye,—
                            A creature easily pass'd by;
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            “But who, once seen, with untold power
                            For ever haunts the yearning heart,
                            Raised from the crowd that self-same hour
                            To dwell apart,
                            All sainted and enshrined to be
                            The idol of our memory!
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            “And oh! let Mary be her name
                            It hath a sweet and gentle sound
                            At which no glories dear to fame
                            Come crowding round,
                            But which the dreaming heart beguiles
                            With holy thoughts and household smiles
                        
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            “With peaceful meetings, welcomes kind,
                            And love, the same in joy and tears,
                            And gushing intercourse of mind
                            Thro' faithful years;
                            Oh! dream of something half divine,
                            Be real—be mortal—and be mine!”
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE PICTURE OF SAPPHO.
                        
                            I.
                            THOU! whose impassion'd face
                            The Painter loves to trace,
                            Theme of the Sculptor's art and Poet's story—
                            How many a wand'ring thought
                            Thy loveliness hath brought,
                            Warming the heart with its imagined glory!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Yet, was it History's truth,
                            That tale of wasted youth,
                            Of endless grief, and Love forsaken pining?
                            What wert thou, thou whose woe
                            The old traditions show
                            With Fame's cold light around thee vainly shining?
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Didst thou indeed sit there
                            In languid lone despair—
                            Thy harp neglected by thee idly lying—
                            Thy soft and earnest gaze
                            Watching the lingering rays
                            In the far west, where summer-day was dying—
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            While with low rustling wings,
                            Among the quivering strings
                            The murmuring breeze faint melody was making,
                            As though it wooed thy hand
                            To strike with new command,
                            Or mourn'd with thee because thy heart was breaking?
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Didst thou, as day by day
                            Roll'd heavily away,
                            And left thee anxious, nerveless, and dejected,
                            Wandering thro' bowers beloved—
                            Roving where he had roved—
                            Yearn for his presence, as for one expected?
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Didst thou, with fond wild eyes
                            Fix'd on the starry skies,
                            Wait feverishly for each new day to waken—
                            Trusting some glorious morn
                            Might witness his return,
                            Unwilling to believe thyself forsaken?
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            And when conviction came,
                            Chilling that heart of flame,
                            Didst thou, O saddest of earth's grieving daughters !
                            From the Leucadian steep
                            Dash, with a desperate leap,
                            And hide thyself within the whelming waters?
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            Yea, in their hollow breast
                            Thy heart at length found rest!
                            The ever-moving waves above thee closing—
                            The winds, whose ruffling sigh
                            Swept the blue waters by,
                            Disturb'd thee not!—thou wert in peace reposing!
                        
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            Such is the tale they tell!
                            Vain was thy beauty's spell—
                            Vain all the praise thy song could still inspire—
                            Though many a happy band
                            Rung with less skilful hand
                            The borrowed love-notes of thy echoing lyre.
                        
                        
                            X.
                            FAME, to thy breaking heart
                            No comfort could impart,
                            In vain thy brow the laurel wreath was wearing;
                            One grief and one alone
                            Could bow thy bright head down—
                            Thou wert a WOMAN, and wert left despairing!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE SENSE OF BEAUTY.
                        
                            SPIRIT! who over this our mortal Earth,
                            Where nought hath birth
                            Which imperfection doth not some way dim,
                            Since Earth offended HIM—
                            Thou who unseen, from out thy radiant wings
                            Dost shower down light o'er mean and common things;
                            And, wandering to and fro,
                            Through the condemn'd and sinful world dost go,
                            Haunting that wilderness, the human heart,
                            With gleams of glory that too soon depart,
                            Gilding both weed and flower;—
                            What is thy birth divine? and whence thy mighty power?
                        
                        
                            The Sculptor owns thee! On his high pale brow
                            Bewild'ring images are pressing now;
                            Groups whose immortal grace
                            His chisel ne'er shall trace,
                            
                            Though in his mind the fresh creation glows;
                            High forms of godlike strength,
                            Or limbs whose languid length
                            The marble fixes in a sweet repose!
                            At thy command,
                            His true and patient hand
                            Moulds the dull clay to Beauty's richest line,
                            Or with more tedious skill,
                            Obedient to thy will,
                            By touches imperceptible and fine,
                            Works slowly day by day
                            The rough-hewn block away,
                            Till the soft shadow of the bust's pale smile
                            Wakes into statue-life and pays the assiduous toil!
                        
                        
                            Thee, the young Painter knows,—whose fervent eyes,
                            O'er the blank waste of canvas fondly bending,
                            See fast within its magic circle rise
                            Some pictured scene, with colours softly blending,—
                            Green bowers and leafy glades,
                            The old Arcadian shades,
                            Where thwarting glimpses of the sun are thrown,
                            And dancing nymphs and shepherds one by one
                            
                            Appear to bless his sight
                            In Fancy's glowing light,
                            Peopling that spot of green Earth's flowery breast
                            With every attitude of joy and rest.
                        
                        
                            Lo! at his pencil's touch steals faintly forth
                            (Like an uprising star in the cold north)
                            Some face which soon shall glow with beauty's fire:
                            Dim seems the sketch to those who stand around,
                            Dim and uncertain as an echoed sound,
                            But oh! how bright to him, whose hand thou dost
                                inspire!
                        
                        
                            Thee, also, doth the dreaming Poet hail,
                            Fond comforter of many a dreary day—
                            When through the clouds his Fancy's car can sail
                            To worlds of radiance far, how far, away!
                            At thy clear touch (as at the burst of light
                            Which Morning shoots along the purple hills,
                            Chasing the shadows of the vanish'd night,
                            And silvering all the darkly gushing rills,
                            Giving each waking blossom, gemm'd with dew,
                            Its bright and proper hue;)—
                            He suddenly beholds the chequered face
                            Of this old world in its young Eden grace!
                            
                            Disease, and want, and sin, and pain, are not—
                            Nor homely and familiar things:—man's lot
                            Is like his aspirations—bright and high;
                            And even the haunting thought that man must die,
                            His dream so changes from its fearful strife,
                            Death seems but fainting into purer life!
                        
                        
                            Nor only these thy presence woo,
                            The less inspired own thee too!
                            Thou hast thy tranquil source
                            In the deep well-springs of the human heart,
                            And gushest with sweet force
                            When most imprison'd; causing tears to start
                            In the worn citizen's o'erwearied eye,
                            As, with a sigh,
                            At the bright close of some rare holiday,
                            He sees the branches wave, the waters play—
                            And hears the clock's far distant mellow chime
                            Warn him a busier world reclaims his time!
                        
                        
                            Thee, Childhood's heart confesses,—when he sees
                            The heavy rose-bud crimson in the breeze,
                            
                            When the red coral wins his eager gaze,
                            Or the warm sunbeam dazzles with its rays.
                            Thee, through his varied hours of rapid joy,
                            The eager Boy,—
                            Who wild across the grassy meadow springs,
                            And still with sparkling eyes
                            Pursues the uncertain prize,
                            Lured by the velvet glory of its wings!
                        
                        
                            And so from youth to age—yea, till the end—
                            An unforsaking, unforgetting friend,
                            Thou hoverest round us! And when all is o'er,
                            And Earth's most loved illusions please no more,
                            Thou stealest gently to the couch of Death;
                            There, while the lagging breath
                            Comes faint and fitfully, to usher nigh
                            Consoling visions from thy native sky,
                            Making it sweet to die!
                            The sick man's ears are faint—his eyes are dim—
                            But his heart listens to the Heavenward hymn,
                            And his soul sees—in lieu of that sad band,
                            Who come with mournful tread
                            To kneel about his bed,—
                            God's white-robed angels, who around him stand,
                            And waive his Spirit to “the Better Land!”
                        
                        
                        
                            So, living,—dying,—still our hearts pursue
                            That loveliness which never met our view;
                            Still to the last the ruling thought will reign,
                            Nor deem one feeling given—was giv'n invain!
                            For it may be, our banish'd souls recal
                            In this, their earthly thrall,
                            (With the sick dreams of exiles,) that far world
                            Whence angels once were hurl'd;
                            Or it may be, a faint and trembling sense,
                            Vague, as permitted by Omnipotence,
                            Foreshows the immortal radiance round us shed,
                            When the Imperfect shall be perfected!
                            Like the chain'd eagle in his fetter'd might,
                            Straining upon the Heavens his wistful sight,
                            Who toward the upward glory fondly springs
                            With all the vain strength of his shivering wings,—
                            So chain'd to earth, and baffled—yet so fond
                            Of the pure sky which lies so far beyond,
                            We make the attempt to soar in many a thought
                            Of Beauty born, and into Beauty wrought;
                            Dimly we struggle onwards:—who shall say
                            Which glimmering light leads nearest to the Day!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE MOTHER'S HEART.
                        
                            I.
                            WHEN first thou camest, gentle, shy, and fond,
                            My eldest-born, first hope, and dearest treasure,
                            My heart received thee with a joy beyond
                            All that it yet had felt of earthly pleasure;
                            Nor thought that any love again might be
                            So deep and strong as that I felt for thee.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Faithful and true, with sense beyond thy years,
                            And natural piety that lean'd to Heaven;
                            Wrung by a harsh word suddenly to tears,
                            Yet patient of rebuke when justly given—
                            Obedient—easy to be reconciled—
                            And meekly-cheerful—such wert thou, my child!
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Not willing to be left; still by my side
                            Haunting my walks, while summer-day was dying;—
                            Nor leaving in thy turn; but pleased to glide
                            Thro' the dark room where I was sadly lying,
                            Or by the couch of pain, a sitter meek,
                            Watch the dim eye, and kiss the feverish cheek.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            O boy! of such as thou are oftenest made
                            Earth's fragile idols; like a tender flower,
                            No strength in all thy freshness,—prone to fade,—
                            And bending weakly to the thunder-shower,—
                            Still, round the loved, thy heart found force to bind,
                            And clung, like woodbine shaken in the wind!
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Then THOU, my merry love;—bold in thy glee,
                            Under the bough, or by the firelight dancing,
                            With thy sweet temper, and thy spirit free,
                            Didst come, as restless as a bird's wing glancing,
                            Full of a wild and irrepressible mirth,
                            Like a young sunbeam to the gladden'd earth!
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Thine was the shout! the song! the burst of joy!
                            Which sweet from childhood's rosy lip resoundeth;
                            Thine was the eager spirit nought could cloy,
                            And the glad heart from which all grief reboundeth;
                            And many a mirthful jest and mock reply,
                            Lurk'd in the laughter of thy dark-blue eye!
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            And thine was many an art to win and bless,
                            The cold and stern to joy and fondness warming;
                            The coaxing smile;—the frequent soft caress;—
                            The earnest tearful prayer all wrath disarming!
                            Again my heart a new affection found,
                            But thought that lore with thee had reach'd its
                                bound.
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            At length THOU camest; thou, the last and least;
                            Nick-named “The Emperor” by thy laughing brothers,
                            Because a haughty spirit swell'd thy breast,
                            And thou didst seek to rule and sway the others;
                            Mingling with every playful infant wile
                            A mimic majesty that made us smile:—
                        
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            And oh! most like a regal child wert thou!
                            An eye of resolute and successful scheming!
                            Fair shoulders—curling lip—and dauntless brow—
                            Fit for the world's strife, not for Poet's dreaming:
                            And proud the lifting of thy stately head,
                            And the firm bearing of thy conscious tread.
                        
                        
                            X.
                            Different from both! Yet each succeeding claim,
                            I, that all other love had been forswearing,
                            Forthwith admitted, equal and the same;
                            Nor injured either, by this love's comparing,
                            Nor stole a fraction for the newer call—
                            But in the Mother's heart, found room for ALL!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        MAY-DAY, 1837.
                        
                            I.
                            MAY-DAY is come!—While yet the unwillng Spring
                            Checks with capricious frown the opening year,
                            Onward, where bleak winds have been whispering,
                            The punctual Hours their ancient playmate bear;
                            But those who long have look'd for thee, stand by,
                            Like men who welcome back a friend bereaved,
                            And camnot smile, because his sadden'd eye
                            Doth mutely tell them how his soul is grieved.
                            Even thus too greet thine alter'd face to-day,
                            Thou friend in mourning garb!—chill, melancholy May!
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            To thee the first and readiest smiles of Earth,
                            Lovely with life renew'd, were always given,—
                            To thee belong'd the sunshine and the mirth
                            Which bathed all Nature with a glow from Heaven,—
                            To thee the joy of Childhood's earnest heart,
                            His shouting song, and light elastic tread,
                            His brows high arch'd, and laughing lips apart,
                            Bright as the wreath that bound his rosy head.—
                            Thou wert of Innocence the holiday,
                            Thou garlanded and glad!—thou ever-blooming May!
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Yet will I not reproach thee for thy change:
                            Closed be the flower, and leafless be the tree!
                            Smile not as thou wert wont; but sad, and strange,
                            And joyless, let thy tardy coming be!
                            So shall I miss those infant voices less,
                            Calling each other through the garden bowers,
                            Meeting and parting in wild happiness,
                            Leading a light dance thro' the sunny hours;
                            Those little mirthful hearts, who, far away,
                            Breathe, amid cloud-capp'd hills, a yet more wintry
                                May!
                        
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Ah, boys! your play-ground is a desert spot,
                            Revisited alone, and bathed with tears;
                            And where ye pass your May-day, knoweth not
                            The mother who hath watch'd your dawning years.
                            Mine is no more the joy to see ye come,
                            And deem each step hath some peculiar grace!
                            Yours is no more the mother's welcome home,
                            Smiling at each beloved, familiar face!
                            And I an thankfiul that this dreary May
                            Recals not, save by name, that brighter, happier day!
                        
                        
                            V.
                            I should have felt more mock'd, if there had been
                            More peace and sunshine round me,—had the grove,
                            Clad in transparent leaves of tender green,
                            Been full of murm'ring sounds of Nature's love;
                            I should have wept more bitterly beneath
                            The frail laburnum trees, so faint and fair,—
                            I should have sicken'd at the lilac's breath,
                            Thrown by the warm sun on the silent air;
                            But now, with stern regret I wend my way—
                            I know thee not,—thou cold, and unfamiliar May!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE FEVER-DREAM.
                        
                            IT was a fever-dream; I lay
                            Awake, as in the broad bright day,
                            But faint and worn I drew my breath
                            Like those who wait for coming death;
                            And my hand lay helpless on my pillow
                            Weak as a reed or bending willow;
                            And the night-lamp, with its shadowy veil,
                            And its light so sickly, faint, and pale,
                            Gleamed mournfully on objects round;
                            And the clock's stroke was the only sound;
                            Measuring the hours of silent time
                            With a heavy and unwelcome chime,
                            As still monotonously true
                            To its pulse-like beat, the minutes flew.
                        
                        
                            I was alone, but not asleep;
                            Too weary, and too wetk to weep.
                            
                            My eyes had closed in sadness there;
                            And they who watched o'er my despair
                            Had placed that dim light in the room,
                            And deepened the surrounding gloom,
                            By curtaining out the few sad rays
                            Which made things present to my gaze;
                            And all because they vainly thought
                            At last the night its rest had brought,—
                            Alas! rest came no more to me
                            So heavy was my misery!
                        
                        
                            They left me, and my heart was filled
                            With wandering dreams, whose fancies thrilled
                            Painfully through my feeble brain,
                            Till I almost wished them back again.
                            Yet wherefore should I bid them stay?
                            They could not chase those dreams away,
                            But only watch me as I lay.
                        
                        
                            They left me, and the midnight stroke
                            From the old clock the silence broke;
                            
                            And with a wild repining sigh
                            I wished it were my time to die!
                            And then, with spirit all dismayed,
                            For that wild wish, forgiveness prayed,
                            Humbling myself to God's high power
                            To bear His will, and wait His hour.
                        
                        
                            And while I darkly rested there,
                            The breath of a young child's floating hair,
                            Perfumed, and warm, and glistening bright,
                            Swept past me in the shrouding night;—
                            And the footsteps of children, light and quick,
                            (While my heart beat loud, and my breath came thick)
                            Went to and fro on the silent floor;—
                            And the lock was turned in the fastened door,
                            As a child may turn it, who tiptoe stands
                            With his fair round arms and his dimpled hands,
                            Putting out all their strength in vain
                            Admittance by his own means to gain:
                            Till his sweet impatient voice is heard
                            Like the chirp of a young imprisoned bird,
                            Seeking an entrance still to win
                            By fond petitions to those within.
                        
                        
                        
                            A child's soft shadowy hair, bright smiles,
                            His merry laugh, and coaxing wiles,
                            These are sweet things,—most precious things,—
                            But in spite of my brain's wild wanderings,
                            I knew that they dwelt in my fancy only,
                            And that I was sad, and left, and lonely;
                            And the fear of a dreadful madness came
                            And withered my soul like a parching flame;
                            And I felt the strong delirium growing,
                            And the thread of my feeble senses going,
                            And I heard with a horror all untold
                            Which turned my hot blood icy-cold,
                            Those light steps draw more near my bed;
                            And by visions I was visited,
                            Of the gentle eyes which I might not see,
                            And the faces that were so far from me!
                        
                        
                            And blest, oh I blest was the morning beam
                            Which woke me up from my fever-dream!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        TO THE LADY H.0.
                        [Isle of Wight, September, 1838.]
                        
                            I.
                            COME o'er the green hills to the sunny sea!
                            The boundless sea that washeth many lands,
                            Where shells unknown to England, fair and free,
                            Lie brightly scatter'd on the gleaming sands.
                            There, 'midst the hush of slumbering ocean's roar,
                            We'll sit and watch the silver-tissued waves
                            Creep languidly along the basking shore,
                            And kiss thy gentle feet, like Eastern slaves.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            And we will take some volume of our choice,
                            Full of a quiet poetry of thought,
                            And thou shalt read me, with thy plaintive voice,
                            Lines which some gifted mind hath sweetly wrought;
                            
                            And I will listen, gazing on thy face,
                            (Pale as some cameo on the Italian shell!)
                            Or looking out across the far blue space,
                            Where glancing sails to gentle breezes swell.
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Come forth! The sun hath flung on Thetis' breast
                            The glittering tresses of his golden hair;
                            All things are heavy with a noonday rest,
                            And floating sea-birds leave the stirless air.
                            Against the sky, in outlines clear and rude,
                            The cleft rocks stand, while sunbeams slant between;
                            And lulling winds are murmuring thro' the wood,
                            Which skirts the bright bay with its fringe of green.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Come forth! All motion is so gentle now,
                            It seems thy step alone should walk the
                                earth,—
                            Thy voice alone, the “ever soft and low,”
                            Wake the far-haunting echoes into birth.
                            Too wild would be love's passionate store of hope,
                            Unmeet the influence of his changeful power,—
                            Ours be companionship, whose gentle scope
                            Hath charm enough for such a tranquil hour.
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            And slowly, idly wandering, we will roam,
                            Where the high cliffs shall give us ample shade;
                            And watch the glassy waves, whose wrathful foam
                            Hath power to make the seaman's heart afraid.
                            Seek thou no veil to shroud thy soft brown hair,—
                            Wrap thou no mantle round thy graceful form;
                            The cloudless sky smiles forth as still and fair
                            As tho' earth ne'er could know another storm.
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Come! Let not listless sadness make delay,—
                            Beneath Heaven's light that sadness will depart;
                            And as we wander on our shoreward way,
                            A strange, sweet peace shall enter in thine heart.
                            We will not weep, nor talk of vanish'd years,
                            When, link by link, Hope's glittering chain was
                                riven:
                            Those who are dead, shall claim from love no tears,—
                            Those who have injured us; shall be forgiven.
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            Few have my summers been, and fewer thine;—
                            Youth blighted is the weary lot of both:
                            To both, all lonely shows our life's declne,
                            Both with old friends and ties have waxéd wroth.
                            
                            But yet we will not weep! The breathless calm
                            Which lulls the golden earth, and wide blue sea,
                            Shall pour into our souls mysterious balm,
                            And fill us with its own tranquillity.
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            We will not mar the scene—we will not look
                            To the veil'd future, or the shadowy past;
                            Seal'd up shall be sad Memory's open book,
                            And childhood's idleness return at last!
                            Joy, with his restless, ever-fluttering wings,
                            And Hope, his gentle brother,—all shall cease:
                            Like weary hinds that seek the desert springs,
                            Our one sole feeling shall be peace—deep peace!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE FALLEN LEAVES.
                        
                            I.
                            WE stand among the fallen leaves,
                            Young children at our play,
                            And laugh to see the yellow things
                            Go rustling on their way:
                            Right merrily we hunt them down,
                            The autumn winds and we,
                            Nor pause to gaze where snow-drifts lie,
                            Or sunbeams gild the tree:
                            With dancing feet we leap along
                            Where wither'd boughs are strown;
                            Nor past nor future checks our song—
                            The present is our own.
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            We stand among the fallen leaves
                            In youth's enchanted spring—
                            When Hope (who wearies at the last)
                            First spreads her eagle wing.
                            We tread with steps of conscious strength
                            Beneath the leafless trees,
                            And the colour kindles on our cheek
                            As blows the winter breeze;
                            While, gazing towards the cold grey sky,
                            Clouded with snow and rain,
                            We wish the old year all past by,
                            And the young spring come again.
                        
                        
                            III.
                            We stand among the fallen leaves
                            In manhood's haughty prime—
                            When first our pausing hearts begin
                            To love “the olden time;”
                            And, as we gaze, we sigh to think
                            How many a year hath pass'd
                            Since 'neath those cold and faded trees
                            Our footsteps wander'd last;
                            
                            And old companions—now perchance
                            Estranged, forgot, or dead—
                            Come round us, as those autumn leaves
                            Are crush'd beneath our tread.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            We stand among the fallen leaves
                            In our own autumn day—
                            And, tott'ring on with feeble steps,
                            Pursue our cheerless way.
                            We look not back—too long ago
                            Hath all we loved been lost;
                            Nor forward—for we may not live
                            To see our new hope cross'd:
                            But on we go—the sun's faint beam
                            A feeble warmth imparts—
                            Childhood without its joy returns—
                            The present fills our hearts!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE AUTUMN WIND.
                        
                            I.
                            HUSH, moaning autumn wind! be still, be still!
                            Thy grieving voice forbiddeth hearts to rest;
                            We hear thee sweeping down the lonely hill,
                            And mournful thoughts crowd o'er the human breast.
                            Why wilt thou haunt us, with thy voice unkind,
                            Sadd'ning the earth? Hush, moaning autumn wind!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Toss not the branching trees so wildly high,
                            Filling the forest with thy dreary sound:
                            Without thy aid the hues of summer die,
                            And the sear leaves fall scatter'd to the ground.
                            Thou dost but hasten, needlessly unkind,
                            The winter's task, thou moaning autumn wind!
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Sweep not thro' Ocean's caves with hollow roar,
                            Driving our fair ships to some rock-bound strand!
                            While the vex'd sea foams wrathful to the shore,
                            The seaman's wife looks shuddering from the land,
                            And widow'd hearts for many a year shall find
                            Death in thy voice, thou moaning autumn wind!
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Round our calm dwellings, when our hearths are gay,
                            Roam not, oh howling spirit of Despair!
                            As tho' thou wert a creature seeking prey,
                            And where the land look'd richest, found it there.
                            We have enough of memories unkind
                            Without thy voice, thou moaning autumn wind!
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Thee the sad mourner lists, and turns to weep,
                            In the blank silence of her lonely home;
                            The sick man hears, and starts from broken sleep,
                            And the night-wanderer sighs—compell'd to roam;
                            While the poor shiver, for their huts unkind
                            Bar thee not out, thou searching autumn wind!
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Back to the barren hill and lonely glen!
                            Here let the wandering of thy echoes cease;
                            Sadly thou soundest to the hearts of men,—
                            Hush thy wild voice, and let the earth have peace;
                            Or, if no chain thy restless will can bind,
                            Sweep thro' the desert, moaning autumn wind!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE BLIND MAN'S BRIDE.
                        
                            I.
                            WHEN first, beloved, in vanish'd hours
                            The blind man sought thy love to gain,
                            They said thy cheek was bright as flowers
                            New freshen'd by the summer rain:
                            They said thy movements, swift yet soft,
                            Were such as make the wingéd dove
                            Seem, as it gently soars aloft,
                            The image of repose and love.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            They told me, too, an eager crowd
                            Of wooers praised thy beauty rare,
                            But that thy heart was all too proud
                            A common love to meet or share.
                            
                            Ah! thine was neither pride nor scorn,
                            But in thy coy and virgin breast
                            Dwelt preference, not of PASSION born,
                            The love that hath a holier rest!
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Days came and went;—thy step I heard
                            Pause frequent, as it pass'd me by:—
                            Days came and went;—thy heart was stirr'd,
                            And answer'd to my stifled sigh!
                            And thou didst make a humble choice,
                            Content to be the blind man's bride,
                            Who loved thee for thy gentle voice,
                            And own'd no joy on earth beside.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            And well by that sweet voice I knew
                            (Without the happiness of sight)
                            Thy years, as yet, were glad and few,—
                            Thy smile, most innocently bright:
                            I knew how full of love's own grace
                            The beauty of thy form must be;
                            And fancy idolized the face
                            Whose loveliness I might not see!
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Oh! happy were those days, beloved!
                            I almost ceased for light to pine
                            When thro' the summer vales we roved,
                            Thy fond hand gently link'd in mine.
                            Thy soft, “Good night” still sweetly cheer'd
                            The unbroken darkness of my doom;
                            And thy “Good morrow, love,” endear'd
                            Each sunrise that return'd in gloom!
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            At length, as years roll'd swiftly on,
                            They spoke to me of Time's decay—
                            Of roses from thy smooth cheek gone,
                            And ebon ringlets turn'd to grey.
                            Ah! then I bless'd the sightless eyes
                            Which could not feel the deepening shade,
                            Nor watch beneath succeeding skies
                            Thy withering beauty faintly fade.
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            I saw no paleness on thy cheek,
                            No lines upon thy forehead smooth,—
                            But still the BLIND MAN heard thee
                                speak
                            In accents made to bless and soothe:
                            
                            Still he could feel thy guiding hand
                            As thro' the woodlands wild we ranged,—
                            Still in the summer light could stand,
                            And know thy HEART and VOICE
                                unchanged.
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            And still, beloved, till life grows cold,
                            We'll wander 'neath a genial sky,
                            And only know that we are old
                            By counting happy years gone by:
                            For thou to me art still as fair
                            As when those happy years began,—
                            When first thou cam'st to soothe and share
                            The sorrows of a sightless man!
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            Old Time, who changes all below,
                            To wean men gently for the grave,
                            Hath brought us no increase of woe,
                            And leaves us all he ever gave:
                            For I am still a helpless thing,
                            Whose darken'd world is cheer'd by thee—
                            And thou art she whose beauty's spring
                            The blind man vainly yearn'd to see!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE WIDOW TO HER SON'S BETROTHED.
                        
                            I.
                            AH, cease to plead with that sweet cheerful
                                voice,
                            Nor bid me struggle with a weight of woe,
                            Lest from the very tone that says “rejoice”
                            A double bitterness of grief should grow;
                            Those words from THEE convey no gladdening thought,
                            No sound of comfort lingers in their tone,
                            But by their means a haunting shade is brought
                            Of love and happiness for ever gone!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            My son!—alas, hast thou forgotten him,
                            That thou art full of hopeful plans again?
                            His heart is cold—his joyous eyes are dim,—
                            For him THE FUTURE is a word in vain!
                            
                            He never more the welcome hours may share,
                            Nor bid Love's sunshine cheer our lonely home,—
                            How hast thou conquer'd all the long despair
                            Born of that sentence—He is in the tomb?
                        
                        
                            III.
                            How can thy hand with cheerful fondness press
                            The hands of friends who still on earth may stay—
                            Remembering his most passionate caress
                            When the LONG PARTING summon'd him away?
                            How can'st thou keep from bitter weeping, while
                            Strange voices tell thee thou art brightly fair—
                            Remembering how he loved thy playful smile,
                            Kiss'd thy smooth cheek, and praised thy burnish'd
                                hair?
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            How can'st thou laugh? How can'st thou warble songs?
                            How can'st thou lightly tread the meadow-fields,
                            Praising the freshness which to spring belongs,
                            And the sweet incense which the hedge-flower yields?
                            Does not the many-blossom'd spring recal
                            Our pleasant walks through cowslip-spangled meads,—
                            The violet-scented lanes—the warm south-wall,
                            Where early flow'rets rear'd their welcome heads?
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Does not remembrance darken on thy brow
                            When the wild rose a richer fragrance flings—
                            When the caressing breezes lift the bough,
                            And the sweet thrush more passionately sings;—
                            Dost thou not, then, lament for him whose form
                            Was ever near thee, full of earnest grace?
                            Does not the sudden darkness of the storm
                            Seem luridly to fall on Nature's face?
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            It does to ME! The murmuring summer breeze,
                            Which thou dost turn thy glowing cheek to meet,
                            For me sweeps desolately through the trees,
                            And moans a dying requiem at my feet!
                            The glistening river which in beauty glides,
                            Sparkling and blue with morn's triumphant light,
                            All lonely flows, or in its bosom hides
                            A broken image lost to human sight!
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            But THOU!—Ah! turn thee not in grief away;
                            I do not wish thy soul as sadly wrung—
                            I know the freedom of thy spirit's play,
                            I know thy bounding heart is fresh and young:
                            
                            I know corroding Time will slowly break
                            The links which bound most fondly and most fast,
                            And Hope will be Youth's comforter, and make
                            The long bright Future overweigh the Past.
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            Only, when full of tears I raise mine eyes
                            And meet thine ever full of smiling light,
                            I feel as though thy vanish'd sympathies
                            Were buried in HIS grave, where all is
                                night;
                            And when beside our lonely hearth I sit,
                            And thy light laugh comes echoing to my ear,
                            I wonder how the waste of mirth and wit
                            Hath still the power thy widow'd heart to cheer!
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            Bear with me yet! Mine is a harsh complaint!
                            And thy youth's innocent lightheartedness
                            Should rather soothe me when my spirits faint
                            Than seem to mock my age's lone distress.
                            But oh! the tide of grief is swelling high,
                            And if so soon forgetfulness must be—
                            If, for the DEAD, thou hast no further sigh,
                            Weep for his Mother!—Weep, young Bride, for
                                    ME!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE TRYST.
                        
                            I.
                            I went, alone, to the old familiar place
                            Where we often met,—
                            When the twilight soften'd thy bright and radiant face
                            And the sun had set.
                            All things around seem'd whispering of the past,
                            With thine image blent—
                            Even the changeful spray which the torrent cast
                            As it downward went!
                            I stood and gazed with a sad and heavy eye
                            On the waterfall—
                            And with a shouting voice of agony
                            On thy name did call!
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            With a yearning hope, from my wrung and aching heart
                            I call'd on thee—
                            And the lonely echoes from the rocks above
                            They answer'd me!
                            Glad and familiar as a household word
                            Was that cherish'd name
                            But in that grieving hour, faintly heard,
                            'T was not the same!
                            Solemn and sad, with a distant knelling cry,
                            On my heart it fell—
                            'T was as if the word “Welcome” had been answer'd by
                            The word “FAREWELL!”
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE BANNER OF THE COVENANTERS.
                        [At the Mareschal College at Aberdeen,
                            among other valuable curiosities, they show one of the banners formerly
                            belonging to the Covenanters; it is of white silk, with the motto, “Spe
                            Expecto,” in red letters; and underneath, the English inscription, “For
                            Religion, King, and Kingdoms.” The banner is much torn, but otherwise in
                            good preservation.]
                        
                            I.
                            HERE, where the rain-drops may not fall, the
                                sunshine doth not play,
                            Where the unfelt and distant breeze in whispers dies
                                away;
                            Here, where the stranger paces slow along the silent halls,
                            Why mutely art thou hanging thus against the massive walls?
                            Thou, that hast seen blood shed for thee—that midst the
                                battle-tide
                            Hast faintly lit the soldier's eye with triumph ere he died;
                            Bright banner, which hath witness'd oft the struggles of the
                                free,
                            Emblem of proud and holy hope, is this a place for thee?
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Wake! wave aloft, thou Banner! let every snowy fold
                            Float on our wild, unconquer'd hills, as in the days of old:
                            Hang out, and give again to Death a glory and a charm,
                            Where Heaven's pure dew may freshen thee, and Heaven's pure sunshine
                                warm.
                            Wake, wave aloft!
                            I hear the silk low rustling on the breeze,
                            Which whistles through the lofty fir, and bends the birchen
                                trees;
                            I hear the tread of warriors arm'd to conquer or to die;
                            Their bed or bier the heathery hill, their canopy the sky.
                        
                        
                            III.
                            What, what is life or death to them? they only feel and
                                know
                            Freedom is to be struggled for, with an unworthy foe—
                            Their homes—their hearths—the all for which their fathers, too, have
                                fought,
                            And liberty to breathe the prayers their cradled lips were
                                taught.
                            
                            On, on they rush—like mounitain streams resistlessly they sweep—
                            On! those who live are heroes now—and martyrs those who sleep!
                            While still the snow-white Banner waves above the field of
                                strife,
                            With a proud triumph, as it were a thing of soul and life.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            They stand—they bleed—they fall! they make one brief and breathless
                                pause,
                            And gaze with fading eyes upon the standard of their cause;—
                            Again they brave the strife of death, again each weary limb
                            Faintly obeys the warrior soul, tho' earth's best hopes grow
                                dim;—
                            The mountain-rills are red with blood, the pure and quiet sky
                            Rings with the shouts of those who win, the groans of those who
                                die;
                            Taken—re-taken—raised again, but soil'd with clay and gore,
                            Heavily, on the wild free breeze, that Banner floats once more.
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            I hear the wail of women now: the dreadful day is done:
                            God's creatures wait to strive and slay until to-morrow's sun:
                            I hear the heavy breathing of the weary ones who sleep,
                            The death-sob and the dying word, “the voice of them that weep;”
                            The half-choked grief of those who, while they stifle back their
                                breath,
                            Scarce know if what they watch be hush'd in slumber or in death;
                            While mournfully, as if it knew and felt for their despair,
                            The moon-lit Banner flaps and falls upon the midnight air.
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Morning! the glad and glorious light! the waking of God's earth,
                            Which rouses men to stan with gore the soil that gave them birth.
                            In the still sunshine sleeps the hill, the stream, the distant
                                town;
                            In the still sunshine—clogg'd and stiff—the battle-flag hangs
                                down.
                            
                            Peace is in Heaven, and Heaven's good gifts, but war is amongst
                                men—
                            Red blood is pouring on the hill, wild shouts are in the glen;
                            'T is past—they sink, they bleed, they fly—that faint, enfeebled
                                host,
                            Right is not might—the Banner-flag, the victory, are lost!
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            Heaven's dew hath drunk the crimson drops which on the heather
                                lay,
                            The rills that were so red with gore, go sparkling on their way;
                            The limbs that fought, the hearts that swell'd, are crumbled into
                                dust,
                            The souls which strove are gone to meet the spirits of the just;
                            But that frail silken flag, for which, and under which, they
                                fought,
                            (And which e'en now retains its power upon the soul of
                                thought,)
                            Survives—a tatter'd, senseless thing—to meet the curious eye,
                            And wake a momentary dream of hopes and days gone by.
                        
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            A momentary dream! oh! not for one poor transient
                                hour,
                            Not for a brief and hurried day that flag exerts its power;
                            Full flashing on our dormant souls the firm conviction comes,
                            That what our fathers did for theirs, we could for
                                    our homes.
                            We, too, could brave the giant arm that seeks to chain each word,
                            And rule what form of prayer alone shall by our God be heard:
                            We, too, in triumph or defeat, could drain our heart's best
                                veins,
                            While the good old cause of Liberty for Church and State remains!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE ROCK OF THE BETRAYED.
                        
                            I.
                            IT was a Highland chieftain's son
                            Gazed sadly from the hill:
                            And they saw him shrink from the autumn wind,
                            As its blast came keen and chill.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            His stately mother saw,—and spoke
                            With the heartless voice of pride;
                            “'T is well I have a stouter son
                            The border wars to ride.”
                        
                        
                            III.
                            His jealous brother saw, and stood,
                            Red-hair'd, and fierce, and tall,
                            Muttering low words of fiendish hope
                            To be the lord of all.
                        
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            But sickly Allan heard them not,
                            As he look'd o'er land and lea;
                            He was thinking of the sunny climes
                            That lie beyond the sea.
                        
                        
                            V.
                            He was thinking of the native land
                            Whose breeze he could not bear;
                            Whose wild free beauty he must leave,
                            To breathe a warmer air.
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            He was dreaming of his childhood's haunts,
                            And his grey-hair'd father's praise;
                            And the chance of death which hung so near
                            And darken'd his young days.
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            So he turn'd, and bade them both farewell,
                            With a calm and mournful smile;
                            And he spoke of dwelling far away,
                            But only for a while.
                        
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            And if a pang of bitter grief
                            Shot wildly through his heart,
                            No man heard Allan Douglas sigh,
                            Nor saw the tear-drop start:
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            For he left in Scotland none who cared
                            If e'er he should return,
                            In castle hall, or cottage low,
                            By river or by burn.
                        
                        
                            X.
                            Only upon the heather brae
                            His quivering lip he press'd;
                            And clasp'd the senseless birchen tree,
                            And strain'd it to his breast;
                        
                        
                            XI.
                            Because the human heart is full
                            Of love that must be given,
                            However check'd, estranged, and chill'd,
                            To something under Heaven.
                        
                        
                        
                            XII.
                            And these things had been friends to him
                            Thro' a life of lonely hours—
                            The blue lake, and the waving birch,
                            And the low broom's scented flowers.
                        
                        
                        
                            XIII.
                            Twice had the snow been on the hills,
                            And twice the soft spring rain,
                            When Allan Douglas bent his way
                            To his native land again.
                        
                        
                            XIV.
                            More healthful glow'd his hollow cheek,
                            His step was firm and free,
                            And he brought a fair Italian girl
                            His bonny bride to be.
                        
                        
                            XV.
                            But darkly sneer'd his brother cold,
                            When he saw that maiden fair,
                            “Is a foreign minion come to wed
                            The Highland chieftain's heir?”
                        
                        
                        
                            XVI.
                            And darkly gloom'd the mother's brow
                            As she said, “Am I so old,
                            That a stranger must so soon come here
                            The castle keys to hold?”
                        
                        
                            XVII.
                            Then spoke the young Italian girl
                            With a sweet and modest grace,
                            As she lifted upi her soft black eyes
                            And look'd them in the face:
                        
                        
                            XVIII.
                            “A stranger and an orphan comes
                            To Allan's native land,
                            And she needs the mother's welcome smile,
                            And the brother's friendly hand.
                        
                        
                            XIX.
                            “Be thine! oh, stately lady—thine—
                            The rule that thou dost crave,
                            For Allan's love is all I earn'd,
                            And all I seek to have.
                        
                        
                        
                            XX.
                            “And trust me, brother, tho' my words
                            In foreign accents fall,
                            The heart is of no country born,
                            And my heart will love you all.”
                        
                        
                            XXI.
                            But vain the music of her tongue
                            Against the hate they bore;
                            And when a babe her love had bless'd
                            They hated her the more.
                        
                        
                            XXII.
                            They hated her the more because
                            That babe must be the heir,
                            And his dark and lovely eyes at times
                            His mother's look would wear.
                        
                        
                            XXIII.
                            But lo! the keen cold winter came
                            With many a bitter blast:
                            It pierced thro' sickly Allan's frame,—
                            He droop'd and died at last!
                        
                        
                        
                            XXIV.
                            Oh! mournfully at early morn
                            That young wife sat and wept,—
                            And mournfully, when day was done,
                            To her widow'd couch she crept,—
                        
                        
                            XXV.
                            And mournfully at noon she rock'd
                            The baby on her knee;
                            “There is no pity in their hearts,
                            My child, for thee and me.
                        
                        
                            XXVI.
                            “There was no pity in their hearts
                            For him who is at rest:
                            How should they feel for his young son
                            Who slumbers at my breast?”
                        
                        
                            XXVII.
                            The red-hair'd brother saw her tears,
                            And said, “Nay, cease thy moan—
                            Come forth into the morning air,
                            And weep. no more alone!”
                        
                        
                        
                            XXVIII.
                            The proud stepmother chid her woe;—
                            “Even for thy infant's sake
                            Go forth into the morning air,
                            And sail upon the lake!”
                        
                        
                            XXIX.
                            There seem'd some feeling for her state;
                            Their words were fair and mild;
                            Yet she shudder'd as she whisper'd low,
                            “God shield me and my child!”
                        
                        
                            XXX.
                            “Come!” said dead Allan's brother stern,
                            “Why dost thou tremble so?
                            “Come!”—and with doubt and fear perplex'd,
                            The lady rose to go.
                        
                        
                            XXXI.
                            They glided over the glassy lake,
                            'Till its lulling murmur smote,
                            With a death-like omen, to and fro',
                            Against the heaving boat.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXXII.
                            And no one spoke;—that brother still
                             His face averted kept,
                            And the lady's tears fell fast and free
                            O'er her infant as it slept.
                        
                        
                            XXXIII.
                            The cold faint evening breeze sprang up
                            And found them floating on;
                            They glided o'er the glassy lake
                            Till the day's last streak was gone—
                        
                        
                            XXXIV.
                            Till the day's last streak had died away
                            From the chill and purple strand,
                            And a mist was on the water's face
                            And a damp dew on the land;
                        
                        
                            XXXV.
                            Till you could not trace the living hue
                            Of lip, or cheek, or eye,
                            But the outline of each countenance
                            Drawn dark against the sky.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXXVI.
                            And all things had a ghastly look,
                            An aspect strange and drear;—
                            The lady look'd to the distant shore
                            And her heart beat wild with fear.
                        
                        
                        
                            XXXVII.
                            There is a rock whose jutting height
                            Stands frowning o'er that lake,
                            Where the faintest call of the bugle horn
                            The echo's voice will wake:—
                        
                        
                            XXXVIII.
                            And there the water lifts no wave
                            To the breeze, so fresh and cool,
                            But lies within the dark rock's curve,
                            Like a black and gloomy pool.
                        
                        
                            XXXIX.
                            Its depth is great,—a stone thrown in
                            Hath a dull descending sound,
                            The plummet hath not there been cast
                            Which resting-place hath found.
                        
                        
                        
                            XL.
                            And scatter'd firs and birch-trees grow
                            On the summit, here and there—
                            Lonely and joylessly they wave,
                            Like an old man's thin grey hair.
                        
                        
                            XLI.
                            But not to nature's hand it owes
                            Its mournfulness alone,
                            For vague tradition gives the spot
                            A horror of its own.
                        
                        
                            XLII.
                            The boatman doffs his cap beneath
                            Its dark o'er-hanging shade,
                            And whispers low its Gaelic name,—
                            “THE ROCK OF THF BETRAY'D.”
                        
                        
                            XLIII.
                            And when the wind, which never curls
                            That pool, goes sweeping by,
                            Bending the firs and birchen trees
                            With a low and moaning sigh,—
                        
                        
                        
                            XLIV.
                            He'll tell you that the sound which comes
                            So strange, and faint, and dim,
                            Is only heard at one set hour,
                            And call'd “THE LADY'S HYMN.”
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE LAMENT FOR SHUIL DONALD'S DAUGHTER.
                        
                            I.
                            IN old Shuil Donald's cottage there are many voices
                                weeping,
                            And stifled sobs, and murmurings of sorrow wild and
                                vain,
                            For the old man's cherish'd blessing on her bed of death lies
                                sleeping,—
                            The sleep from which no human wish can rouse her soul
                                again.
                            Oh, dark are now those gentle eyes which shone beneath their
                                lashes
                            So full of laughter and of love—it seems but
                                yesterday—
                            Well may Shuil Donald mourn beside his hearth's forsaken ashes,
                            His lily of the valley is wither'd away!
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            The spring shall come to other hearts with breezes and
                                with showers,
                            But lonely winter still shall reign in old Shuil Donald's
                                home;
                            Others may raise the song of joy, and laugh away the hours,
                            But he—oh! never more may joy to his lone
                                dwelling come.
                            Her name shall be an empty sound, in idle converse spoken,
                            Forgotten shall she be by those who mourn her most
                                to-day—
                            All, all but one, who wanders with his Highland spirit broken,
                            His lily of the valley is wither'd away!
                        
                        
                            III.
                            And he—long, long, at even-tide, when sunset rays are
                                gleaming,
                            That sad old man shall sit within his lonely cottage
                                door,
                            Desolate, desolate shall sit, and muse with idle dreaming
                            On days when her returning step came quick across the
                                moor.
                            
                            Oh! never more her quiet smile, her cheerful voice of greeting,
                            Shall rouse to warmth his aged heart, when darkly sinks
                                the day—
                            Never, oh! never more on earth those loved ones may be meeting—
                            His lily of the valley is wither'd away!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        WEEP NOT FOR HIM THAT DIETH.
                        
                            
                                “Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him; but weep sore for
                                    him that goeth away, for he shall retum no more, nor he his
                                    native country.”
                                —Jeremiah xxii. 10.
                            
                        
                        
                            I.
                            WEEP not for him that dieth—
                            For he sleeps, and is at rest;
                            And the couch whereon he lieth
                            Is the green earth's quiet breast:
                            But weep for him who pineth
                            On a far land's hateful shore,
                            Who wearily declineth
                            Where ye see his face no more!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Weep not for him that dieth,
                            For friends are round his bed,
                            And many a young lip sigheth
                            When they name the early dead;
                            
                            But weep for him that liveth
                            Where none will know or care,
                            When the groan his faint heart giveth
                            Is the last sigh of despair.
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Weep not for him that dieth,
                            For his struggling soul is free,
                            And the world from which it flieth
                            Is a world of misery;
                            But weep for him that weareth
                            The captive's galling chain:
                            To the agony he beareth,
                            Death were but little pain.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Weep not for him that dieth,
                            For he hath ceased from tears,
                            And a voice to his replieth
                            Which he hath not heard for years;
                            But weep for him who weepeth
                            On that cold land's cruel shore—
                            Blest, blest is he that sleepeth,—
                            Weep for the dead no more!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE CHILD OF EARTH.
                        
                            I.
                            FAINTER her slow step falls from day to day,
                            Death's hand is heavy on her darkening brow;
                            Yet doth she fondly cling to earth, and say,
                            “I am content to die, but, oh! not now!
                            Not while the blossoms of the joyous spring
                            Make the warm air such luxury to breathe;
                            Not while the birds such lays of gladness sing;
                            Not while bright flowers around my footsteps wreathe.
                            Spare me, great God, lift up my drooping brow!
                            I am content to die—but, oh! not now!”
                        
                        
                        
                            II.
                            The spring hath ripen'd into summer-time,
                            The season's viewless boundary is past;
                            The glorious sun hath reach'd his burning prime;
                            Oh! must this glimpse of beauty be the last?
                            “Let me not perish while o'er land and lea
                            With silent steps the lord of light moves on;
                            Nor while the murmur of the mountain bee
                            Greets my dull ear with music in its tone!
                            Pale sickness dims my eye, and clouds my brow;
                            I am content to die—but, oh! not now!”
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Summer is gone, and autumn's soberer hues
                            Tint the ripe fruits, and gild the waving corn;
                            The huntsman swift the flying game pursues,
                            Shouts the halloo, and winds his eager horn.
                            “Spare me awhile to wander forth and gaze
                            On the broad meadows and the quiet stream,
                            To watch in silence while the evening rays
                            Slant thro' the fading trees with ruddy gleam!
                            Cooler the breezes play around my brow;
                            I am content to die—but, oh! not now!”
                        
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            The bleak wind whistles, snow-showers, far and near,
                            Drift without echo to the whitening ground;
                            Autumn hath pass'd away, and, cold and drear,
                            Winter stalks on, with frozen mantle bound.
                            Yet still that prayer ascends:—“Oh! laughingly
                            My little brothers round the warm hearth crowd,
                            Our home-fire blazes broad, and bright, and high,
                            And the roof rings with voices glad and loud;
                            Spare me awhile! raise up my drooping brow!
                            I am content to die—but, oh! not now!”
                        
                        
                            V.
                            The spring is come again—the joyful spring!
                            Again the banks with clustering flowers are spread;
                            The wild bird dips upon its wanton wing:—
                            The child of earth is number'd with the dead!
                            “Thee never more the sunshine shall awake,
                            Beaming all redly thro' the lattice-pane;
                            The steps of friends thy slumbers may not break,
                            Nor fond familiar voice arouse again!
                            Death's silent shadow veils thy darken'd brow;
                            Why didst thou linger?—thou art happier now!”
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE CHRISTENING.
                        (Of my Brother's infant Son, February 21, 1839.)
                        
                            I.
                            THERE is a sound of laughter light and gay,
                            And hurried welcomes, as of joyful greeting;
                            The stir and murmur of a holiday,
                            The grouping of glad friends each other meeting:
                            And in the midst art THOU—thou tiny flower,
                            Whose coming hath so cheer'd this wintry hour!
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Helpless thou liest, young blossom of our love!
                            The sunshine of fond smiles around thee beaming,
                            Blessings call'd down on thee from Heaven above,
                            And every heart about thy future
                                dreaming:—
                            Meek peace and utter innocence are now
                            The sole expression of thy baby brow.
                        
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Helpless thou liest, thy little waxen face
                            Eagerly scann'd by our inquiring glances,
                            Hoping some lovely likeness there to trace,
                            Which fancy finds, and so thy worth enhances;
                            Clothing with thought mature, and power of mind,
                            Those infant features, yet so faintly lined.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            And still thy youthful mother bendeth down
                            Her large, soft, loving eyes, brimful of gladness,
                            Her cheek almost as waxen as thine own,
                            Her heart as innocently free from sadness:
                            And still a brighter smile her red lip wears,
                            As each her young son's loveliness declares.
                        
                        
                            V.
                            And sometimes as we gaze a sigh is heard,
                            (Though from the happy group all grief seems
                                banished,)
                            As thou recallest, little nestling bird,
                            Some long familiar face whose light hath vanish'd;
                            Some name, which yet hath power our hearts to thrill—
                            Some smile, whose buried beauty haunts us still!
                        
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Ah! most to Her, the early widow'd, come
                            Thoughts of the blossoms that from earth have
                                perish'd;
                            Lost to her lone and solitary home,
                            Though in her brooding memory fondly cherish'd:—
                            Her little grandson's baby-smiles recall
                            Not one regretted hope of youth, but
                                all!
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            Her Son's son lies upon her cradling knee,
                            And bids her heart return, with mournful dreaming,
                            To her own first-born's helpless infancy,
                            When hope-youth's guiding star-was brightly beaming;
                            And He, who died too soon, stood by and smiled,
                            And bless'd alike the mother and her child.
                        
                        
                            VIII.
                            Since then, how many a year hath fleeted past!
                            What unforeseen events, what joys, what sorrows,
                            With sunshine or with clouds have overcast
                            The long succession of her lonely morrows;
                            Ere musing o'er this fair and new-born face,
                            A fresh link carried on her orphan'd Race!
                        
                        
                        
                            IX.
                            Fair child, that race is not by man's award
                            Ennobled,—but by God; no titles sounded
                            By herald's trump, or smooth and flattering bard,
                            Proclaim within what lines thy rank is
                                bounded:—
                            Thy power hereditary none confine,
                            The gift of Genius, boy, by right is thine!
                        
                        
                            X.
                            Be humble, for it is an envied thing;
                            And men whose creeping hearts have long submitted
                            Around the column'd height to clasp and cling
                            Of Titled Pride—by man to man transmitted,—
                            Will grudge the power they have less cause to dread,
                            Oppose thee living, and malign when dead.
                        
                        
                            XI.
                            One of thy lineage served his country well
                            (Though with her need her gratitude departed);
                            What in her memory now is left to dwell?
                            The faults of him who died half
                                broken-hearted:—
                            And those, whose envious hands ne'er stretch'd to save,
                            Pluck down the laurels springing from his grave.
                        
                        
                        
                            XII.
                            Yet hush! it is a solemn hour; and far
                            Be human bitterness and vain upbraiding;
                            With hope we watch thy rising, thou young star,
                            Hope not all earthly, or it were too
                                fading;
                            For we are met to usher in thy life,
                            With Prayer,—which lifteth hearts, and quelleth strife!
                        
                        
                            XIII.
                            Hush'd is the busy group, and still as death;
                            All at the sacred altar meekly kneeling;
                            For thy sake, who so lately drew thy breath,
                            All unto Heaven with earnest heart appealing.
                            A solemn voice addresses the Most High,
                            And with a murmuring echo we reply.
                        
                        
                            XIV.
                            All holy be the hour! and, oh! may Heaven
                            Look down and bless the anxious mother's part,
                            As meekly she confides the treasure given
                            So lately to her young and hoping heart;
                            And pleads that God's great love may be his stay,
                            And guide her little Wanderer on his way.
                        
                        
                        
                            XV.
                            So let it be! and when the noble head
                            Of thy true-hearted father, babe beloved,
                            Now glossy dark, is silver-gray instead,
                            And thy young birth-day far away removed;
                            Still may'st thou be a comfort and a joy,—
                            Still welcome as this day, unconscious boy!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        THE MOTHER'S LAST WATCH.
                        Written on the occasion of the death of the infant daughter
                            of Her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland.
                        
                            I.
                            HARK, through the proudly decorated halls,
                            How strangely sounds the voice of bitter woe,
                            Where steps that dread their echo as it falls
                            Steal silently and sadly to and fro.
                            There, wither'd lies the bud so lately given,
                            And, beautiful in grief as when she smiled,
                            Bow'd 'neath the unexpected stroke of Heaven,
                            The mourning Mother watches o'er her Child.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            'Tis her last Watch! Sleep seals those infant lids,
                            Dark fall the lashes on that roseleaf cheek-
                            But oh!—the look is there, which Hope forbids;
                            Of Death—of Death those heavy eyelids speak!—
                            
                            'Tis her last Watch!—no more that gentle hand
                            With cautious love shall curtain out the light—
                            No more that graceful form shall mutely stand
                            And bless thy slumbers thro' the shadowy night.
                        
                        
                            III.
                            Hush'd is the innocent heart which throbbing pain,
                            Vain hope, and vain regret had never moved.
                            The God who gave hath claim'd his gift again,
                            And angels welcome her, on earth so loved.
                            Yet still of hope and fear the endless strife
                            Within that Mother's bosom faintly swells,
                            Still, still she gazes on, and dreams of life,
                            Though the fond falsehood Reason's pow'r repels.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Unheard each word of comfort faintly falls
                            From lips whose tones in other days were dear,
                            Her infant's smile is all her heart recalls,—
                            Her infant's voice is all her heart can hear;—
                            She clasps its hand, the feverish glow of hers
                            Wakes into warmth the freezing current's flow;
                            She bends,—her sobbing breath a ringlet stirs
                            With mimic life upon its pallid brow.
                        
                        
                        
                            V.
                            Oh! what a mournful thing is human love!
                            In happier days of hope and bliss gone by
                            The Mother's heart with pitying throb would move
                            If but a teardrop dimm'd that laughing eye:
                            And now she prays that Heaven the boon may give
                            To hear from those pale lips a cry of pain—
                            Aught that could bid her sinking soul revive,
                            And tell the mourner thou wert hers
                                again!
                        
                        
                            VI.
                            Ah ! never more that dream of hope may be!—
                            The summer breeze among the boughs shall wave,
                            The summer sun beam bright o'er land and lea,
                            But thou, no spring shall wake thee from the grave!
                            No more those little rosy lips shall greet
                            With brightly sudden smile her look of pride;
                            No more with falt'ring steps those fairy feet
                            Shall totter onward to her cherish'd side.
                        
                        
                            VII.
                            All, all is over! See, with painful start
                            She wakens from her trance to feel the whole,
                            And know the pang even from thy corse to part—
                            Thou vainly guarded treasure of her soul!
                            
                            The hand that, ah! so often hath caress'd,
                            Aids now to place thee in thy narrow bed!
                            The last wild kiss upon thy cheek is press'd—
                            The last fond tear upon thy coffin shed!
                            And all is hush'd: but oft thro' Life's dull track
                            (When time her present sorrow hath beguiled)
                            That pale, sweet brow shall dimly bring us back
                            The Mother's last Watch o'er her fairy Child!
                        
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                    
                    SONNETS.
                    
                    SONNETS.

                    
                        
                        SONNET I.
                        ON SEEING THE BUST OF THE YOUNG PRINCESS DE MONTFORT
                        (In the studio of Bartolini, at Florence).
                        
                            SWEET marble I didst thou merely represent,
                            In lieu of her on whom our glances rest,
                            Some common loveliness,—we were content,
                            As with a modell'd beauty, well express'd;
                            But, by the very skill which makes thee seem
                            So like HER bright and intellectual
                                face,
                            The heart is led unsatisfied to dream;
                            For sculpture cannot give the breathing grace,
                            The light which plays beneath that shadowy brow,
                            Like sunshine on the fountains of the south,—
                            The blush which tints that cheek with roseate glow,—
                            The smile which hovers round that angel-mouth:
                            No! such the form o'er which Pygmalion sigh'd—
                            Too fair to be complete while SOUL was still denied!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET II.
                        RAPHAEL.
                        
                            BLESS'D wert thou, whom Death, and not Decay,
                            Bore from the world on swift and shadowy wings,
                            Ere age or weakness dimm'd one brilliant ray
                            Of thy rapt spirit's high imaginings,
                            While yet thy heart was full of fervid love,
                            And thou wert haunted by resistless dreams
                            Of all in earth beneath, or Heaven above,
                            On which the light of beauty richest gleams,—
                            Dead, but not deathlike, wert thou borne along;
                            Silent and cold, oh thou that didst combinc
                            Sculpture, and painting, and the gift of song;
                            While on thy brow, and on that work divine*
                            Borne with thee, glow'd from thine Italian sky
                            A light whose glory spoke of inmmortality!
                        
                        * The
                            celebrated picture of the Transfiguration (at which Raphael is said to
                            have worked the evening before his death) was borne at the bier-head in
                            the proeession of his funeral.
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET III.
                        THE FORNARINA.
                        
                            AND bless'd was she thou lovedst, for whose
                                sake
                            Thy wit did veil in fanciful disguise
                            The answer which thou wert compell'd to make
                            To Rome's High Priest, and call'd her then “Thine
                                    Eyes;”*
                            Tho' of her life obscure there is no trace,
                            Save where its thread with THY bright
                                history twines,—
                            Tho' all we know of her be that sweet face
                            Whose nameless beauty from thy canvass shines,—
                            Dependent still upon her Raphael's fame,
                            And but recorded by her low degree,
                            As one who had in life no higher claim
                            Than to be painted and be loved by thee;—
                            Yet would I be forgot, as she is now,
                            Once to have press'd my lips on that seraphic brow!
                        
                        Leo X.,
                            visiting Raphael in his studio, and seeing there the Fornarina, asked
                            who and what she was? the painter replied “Sono i miei occhi.”
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET IV.
                        
                            BE frank with me, and I accept my lot;
                            But deal not with me as a grieving child,
                            Who for the loss of that which he hath not
                            Is by a show of kindness thus beguiled.
                            Raise not for me, from its enshrouded tomb,
                            The ghostly likeness of a hope deceased;
                            Nor think to cheat the darkness of my doom
                            By wavering doubts how far thou art released:
                            This dressing Pity in the garb of Love,—
                            This effort of the heart to seem the
                                same,—
                            These sighs and lingerings, (which nothing prove
                            But that thou leav'st me with a kind of shame,)—
                            Remind me more, by their most vain deceit,
                            Of the dear loss of all which thou dost counterfeit.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET V.
                        
                            BECAUSE I know that there is that in me
                            Of which thou shouldst be proud, and not ashamed,—
                            Because I feel one made thy choice should be
                            Not even by fools and slanderers rashly blamed,—
                            Because I fear, howe'er thy soul may strive
                            Against the weakness of that inward pain,
                            The falsehoods which my enemies contrive
                            Not always seek to wound thine ear in vain,—
                            Therefore I sometimes weep, when I should smile,
                            At all the vain frivolity and sin
                            Which those who know me not (yet me revile)—
                            My would-be judges—cast my actions in;
                            But else their malice hath nor sting nor smart—
                            For I appeal from them, Beloved, to thine own heart!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET VI.
                        
                            WHERE the red wine-cup floweth, there art thou!
                            Where luxury curtains out the evening sky;—
                            Triumphant Mirth sits flush'd upon thy brow,
                            And ready laughter lurks within thine eye.
                            Where the long day declineth, lone I sit,
                            In idle thought, my listless hands entwined,
                            And, faintly smiling at remember'd wit,
                            Act the scene over to my musing mind.
                            In my lone dreams I hear thy eloquent voice,
                            I see the pleased attention of the throng,
                            And bid my spirit in thy joy rejoice,
                            Lest in love's selshness I do thee wrong.
                            Ah! midst that proud and mirthful company
                            Send'st thou  no wandering thought to love and me?
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET VII.
                        
                            LIKE an enfranchised bird, who wildly springs,
                            With a keen sparkle in his glancing eye
                            And a strong effort in his quivering wings,
                            Up to the blue vault of the happy sky,—
                            So my enamour'd heart, so long thine own,
                            At length from Love's imprisonment set free.
                            Goes forth into the open world alone,
                            Glad and exulting in its liberty:
                            But like that helpless bird, (confined so long,
                            His weary wings have lost all power to soar,)
                            Who soon forgets to trill his joyous song,
                            And, feebly fluttering, sinks to earth once more,—
                            So, from its former bonds released in vain,
                            My heart still feels the weight of that remember'd chain.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET VIII.
                        TO MY BOOKS.
                        
                            SILENT companions of the lonely hour,
                            Friends, who can never alter or forsake,
                            Who for inconstant roving have no power,
                            And all neglect, perforce, must calmly take,—
                            Let me return to YOU; this turmoil ending
                            Which worldly cares have in my spirit wrought,
                            And, o'er your old familiar pages bending,
                            Refresh my mind with many a tranquil thought:
                            Till, haply meeting there, from time to time,
                            Fancies, the audible echo of my own,
                            'Twill be like hearing in a foreign clime
                            My native language spoke in friendly tome,
                            And with a sort of welcome I shall dwell
                            On these, my unripe musings, told so well.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET IX.
                        TO THE COUNTESS HELÉNE ZAVADOWSKY.
                        
                            WHEN our young Queen put on her rightful crown
                            In Gothic Westminster's long-hallow'd walls,
                            The eye upon no lovelier sight look'd down
                            Than thou, fair Russian! Memory still recalls
                            The soft light of thy sapphire-colour'd eyes,
                            The rich twine of thy simply-braided hair,
                            And the low murmur of the crowd's surprise
                            To see thee pass along so strangely fair.
                            Nor didst thou charm by looks and smiles alone,—
                            Thy “broken English” had its share of grace;
                            For something in thy accent and thy tone
                            So match'd the beauty of thy gentle face,
                            We seem'd to hear our old familiar words
                            Set to some foreign lute or harp's melodious chords!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET X.
                        TO TAGLIONI.
                        
                            SPIRIT of Grace, whose airy footsteps fall
                            So lightly! sure the looker-on must be
                            Most dull of fancy who doth not recall
                            Some sweet comparison to picture thee!
                            The white snow, drifing in its soundless showers,—
                            The young bird resting on a summer-bough,—
                            The south-wind bending down the opening flowers,—
                            The clear wave lifted with a gentle flow,—
                            Rippling and bright, advancing and retreating,
                            Curling around the rock its dancing spray,
                            Like a fair child whose kiss of gentle greeting
                            Woos a companion to make holiday,—
                            Such are the thoughts of beauty round me shed,
                            While pleased my eyes pursue thy light elastic tread.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XI.
                        THE MOSS-WALK AT MARKLY, SUSSEX.
                        (To S.D.)
                        
                            GREEN avenue, whose shadow dim and sweet
                            Pleasantly shelter'd me in days of yore,
                            Dear lost companion, whose slow-pacing feet
                            Then wander'd with me on that moss-paved floor,—
                            Still, like a natural temple, spring those trees,
                            Their column'd stems high-arching over-head?
                            Still dost THOU love, while sighs the murmuring
                                breeze,
                            At Summer eve that velvet path to tread?
                            Then, gentle friend, in whose unworldly eyes,
                            And on whose calm, serene, expressive brow,
                            The light of many a prayer reflected lies,
                            As thou with Heaven didst constant commune know,—
                            Though, in this world, divided we must be,
                            Kneel in that quiet spot, and pray to God for ME!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XII.
                        THE DISDAINED LOVER.
                        
                            I STAND beside the waves,—the mournful waves,—
                            Where thou didst stand in silence and in fear,
                            For thou wert train'd by custom's haughty slaves,
                            And love, from such as I, disdain'd to hear;
                            Yet, with the murmur of the echoing sea,
                            And the monotonous billows, rolling on,
                            Were mingled sounds of weeping,—for in thee
                            All nature was not harden'd into stone:
                            And from the shore there came a distant chime
                            From the old village-clock;—ah! since that day,
                            Like a dull passing-bell each stroke of time
                            Falls on my heart; and in the ocean spray
                            A voice of lamentation seems to dwell,
                            As in that bitter hour of agonised farewell!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XIII.
                        THE WEAVER.
                        
                            LITTLE they think, the giddy and the vain,
                            Wandering at pleasure 'neath the shady trees,
                            While the light glossy silk or rustling train
                            Shines in the sun or flutters in the breeze,
                            How the sick weaver plies the incessant loom,
                            Crossing in silence the perplexing thread,
                            Pent in the confines of one narrow room,
                            Where droops complainingly his cheerless head:—
                            Little they think with what dull anxious eyes,
                            Nor by what nerveless, thin, and trembling hands,
                            The devious mingling of those various dyes
                            Were wrought to answer Luxury's commands:
                            But the day cometh when the tired shall rest,—
                            Where weary Lazarus leans his head on Abraham's breast!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XIV.
                        
                            
                                
                                    “Ay ojueloo verdes
                                    Ay los mis ojuelos,
                                    Ay hagan los cielos
                                    Que de mi te actierde!”*
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            OH! crystal eyes, in which my image lay
                            While I was near, as in a fountain's wave;
                            Let it not in like manner pass away
                            When I am gone; for I am Love's true slave,
                            And in my eyes thine image dwells enshrined,
                            Like one who dazzled hath beheld the sun,
                            So that to other beauty I am blind,
                            And scarce distinguish what I gaze upon:
                            Let it be thus with thee! By all our vows,—
                            By the true token-ring upon thy hand,—
                            Let such remembrance as my worth allows
                            Between thee and each bright temptation stand,—
                            That I, in those clear orbs, on my return,
                            As in the wave's green depth, my shadow may discern.
                        
                        * See the
                            notes to a beautiful volume of poems by Bryant, where this fragment of a
                            Spanish ballad is given.
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XV.
                        TO MISS AUGUSTA COWELL.
                        [To whom I owe the popularity of some of my favourite
                            ballads.]
                        
                            WHEN thy light fingers touch th' obedient
                                chords,
                            Which, with a gentle murmur, low respond,
                            Waiting the measure of the coming words
                            From that sweet voice, so plaintive, sad, and fond,—
                            Say does some wingéd Ariel, hovering near,
                            Teach thee his island music note for note,
                            That thou may'st copy with an echo clear
                            Th' enchanted symphonies that round thee float?
                            Or do all Melodies, whilst thou art playing,
                            (Each with the offering of some chorded sound,)
                            On the low slanting sunbeam earthward straying,
                            Like meek subservient spirits wander round;
                            In Harmony's dim language asking thee
                            Which of them, for the hour, shall thy attendant be?
                        
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XVI.
                        PRINCESS MARIE OF WIRTEMBURG.
                        
                            WHITE Rose of Bourbon's branch, so early faded!
                            When thou wert carried to thy silent rest,
                            And every brow with heavy gloom was shaded,
                            And every heart with fond regret oppress'd,—
                            Sweet was the thought thy brother gave to him
                            Who, far away on Ocean's restless wave,
                            Could not behold those fair eyes closed and dim,
                            Nor see thee laid in thy untimely grave!
                            And, pitying him who yet thy loss must hear,—
                            Whose absent breast a later pang must feel,—
                            Murmur'd, with touching sadness, by thy bier,
                            “Adieu for me! Adieu for Joinville!”
                            Sweet was the thought, and tender was the heart
                            Which thus remember'd all who in its love had part.*
                        
                        * The
                            touching anecdote is told of the youthful Duc d'Aumale, that, when the
                            members of the royal family were bidding farewell to the sacred remains
                            of the Princess Marie (the Prince de Joinville being then absent with
                            his ship) he turned with a gush of sorrow, and bid adieu, not only for
                            himself, but in the name of his absent brother.
                        
                        
                            XVII.
                            Nor wert thou only by thy kindred wept,—
                            Young mother! gentle daughter! cherish'd wife!
                            Deep in her memory France hath fondly kept
                            The records of thy unassuming life:
                            Oft shall the statue heroine*
                                bring to mind,—
                            As pale it gleams beneath the light of day,
                            In all the thoughtful grace by thee design'd,—
                            The worth and talent which have pass'd away!
                            Oft shall the old, who see thy child pass by,
                            Smiling and glad, despite his orphan'd lot,
                            Look on him with a blessing and a sigh;
                            As one who suffers loss, yet feels it not,
                            But lifting up his innocent eyes in prayer,
                            Vaguely imagines Heaven,-foretaught that thou art THERE!
                            
                        
                        * The statue
                            of Joan of Arc, designed and executed by the Princess herself.
                    
                    
                        
                        SONNET XVIII.
                        ON HEARING OF THE DEATH OF THE COUNTESS OF
                            BURLINGTON.
                        [Inscribed, with deep and earnest sympathy, to her Mother,
                            The Countess of Carlisle.]
                        
                            SINCE in the pleasant time of opening flowers
                            That flow'r, Her life, was doom'd to fade away,—
                            Since Her dear loss hath shaded lovely hours,
                            And turn'd to mourning all the smiles of May,—
                            Henceforward when the warm soft breath of Spring
                            Bids cowslips star the meadows, thick and sweet;
                            When doves are in the green wood murmuring,
                            And children wander with delighted feet;
                            When, by their own rich beauty downward bent,
                            Soft Guelder-roses hang their tufts of snow,
                            And purple lilacs yield a fagrant scent,
                            And bright laburnum droops its yellow bough;—
                            Let that Spring-time be welcomed with a sigh,
                            For Her lamented Rake,—who was so young to die!
                        
                        
                        
                            XIX.
                            But since, in all that brief Life's narrow scope,
                            No day pass'd by without some gentle deed,
                            Let us not “mourn like them that have no hope,”
                            Though sharp the stroke,—and suddenly decreed;
                            For still, when Spring puts out her tender leaves,
                            And Nature's beauty seems to bud in vain,
                            (Since then the yearning spirit doubly grieves
                            With fresh remembrance of unconquer'd pain,)
                            Returns the precious memory of all
                            The grace and goodness of that creature fair,
                            Whom it pleased God in early days to call
                            From this dim world of trouble, toil, and care,—
                            And seldom is such bless'd conviction given
                            That She we mourn on Earth is now a Saint in Heaven!
                        
                    
                    London: Printed by W. CLOWES andi SONS, Stamford Street.
                        
                
            
        
    
