
     ----CITATION----
        Schreiner, Olive (1855-1920). Stories, Dreams and Allegories. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 198 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (November 6, 1996).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7150
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    STORIES, DREAMS and ALLEGORIES
                
                By OLIVE SCHREINER
                
                    T. FISCHER UNWIN LTD 
                    LONDON: 
                    ADELPHI TERRACE 
                
            
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                This book contains all of Olive Schreiner’s yet unprinted or uncollected
                    imaginative writings, except at least one novel to appear later, which it is
                    proposed to bring forward. They appear unaltered, except in a few minor respects
                    like punctuation, as I found them among her papers.
                The date and place of writing, affixed by herself, will be found in many of these
                    writings. Regarding the others, I am able to add a few notes. “Who Knocks at the
                    Door?” the latest in date, was published in Fortnightly Review in
                    November 1917. “The Buddhist Priest’s Wife” was written at Matjesfontein in 1891
                    and the following year. “By the Banks of a Full River” probably refers to the
                    “great rains” of 1873, in which year she travelled by coach from Kimberly to
                    Cape Town, but it seems to have been written much later. “The Wax Doll” and
                    “Master Towser,” obviously stories for children, were both written when she was
                    a girl; the latter, no doubt revised, was printed in 1881 in the New
                        College Magazine (in which also “Dream Life and Real Life” was first
                    printed), her brother being at that time Head Master of New College, Eastbourne;
                    “The Wax Doll” is the most carefully written and preserved of all these manuscripts, but I cannot recall that she
                    ever mentioned it.
                I desire heartily to thank Mr. Havelock Ellis, my wife’s friend and my own, for
                    his kind and valuable help in making this selection.
                
                    S.C. CRONWRIGHT?SCHREINER
                    Cape Town, South Africa, October 1922.
                
            
            
        
        
        
            
                
                    
                    STORIES
                    
                        Eighteen?ninety?nine
                        
                        EIGHTEEN-NINETY-NINE
                        
                            “Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened unless it
                                die.”
                        
                        
                            I
                            IT was a warm night: the stars shone down through the thick
                                soft air of the Northern Transvaal into the dark earth, where a
                                little daub?and?wattle house of two rooms lay among the long, grassy
                                slopes.
                            A light shone through the small window of the house, though it was
                                past midnight. Presently the upper half of the door opened and then
                                the lower, and the tall figure of a woman stepped out into the
                                darkness. She closed the door behind her and walked towards the back
                                of the house where a large round hut stood; beside it lay a pile of
                                stumps and branches quite visible when once the eyes grew accustomed
                                to the darkness. The woman stooped and broke off twigs till she had
                                her apron full, and then returned slowly, and went into the
                                house.
                            The room to which she returned was a small, bare room, with brown
                                earthen walls and a mud floor; a naked deal table stood in the
                                centre, and a few dark wooden
                                chairs, home?made, with seats of undressed leather, stood round the
                                walls. In the corner opposite the door was an open fireplace, and on
                                the earthen hearth stood an iron three?foot, on which stood a large
                                black kettle, under which coals were smouldering, though the night
                                was hot and close. Against the wall on the left side of the room
                                hung a gun?rack with three guns upon it, and below it a large
                                hunting?watch hung from two nails by its silver chain.
                            In the corner by the fireplace was a little table with a coffee?pot
                                upon it and a dish containing cups and saucers covered with water,
                                and above it were a few shelves with crockery and a large Bible; but
                                the dim light of the tallow candle which burnt on the table, with
                                its wick of twisted rag, hardly made the corners visible. Beside the
                                table sat a young woman, her head resting on her folded arms, the
                                light of the tallow candle falling full on her head of pale flaxen
                                hair, a little tumbled, and drawn behind into a large knot. The arms
                                crossed on the table, from which the cotton sleeves had fallen back,
                                were the full, rounded arms of one very young.
                            The older woman, who had just entered, walked to the fireplace, and
                                kneeling down before it took from her apron the twigs and sticks she
                                had gathered and heaped them under the kettle till a blaze sprang up
                                which illumined the whole room. Then she rose up and sat down on a
                                chair before the fire, but facing
                                the table, with her hands crossed on her brown apron.
                            She was a woman of fifty, spare and broad?shouldered, with black
                                hair, already slightly streaked with grey; from below high, arched
                                eyebrows, and a high forehead, full dark eyes looked keenly, and a
                                sharply cut aquiline nose gave strength to the face; but the mouth
                                below was somewhat sensitive, and not over? full. She crossed and
                                recrossed her knotted hands on her brown apron.
                            The woman at the table moaned and moved her head from side to
                                side.
                            “What time is it?” she asked.
                            The older woman crossed the room to where the hunting?watch hung on
                                the wall.
                            It showed a quarter?past one, she said, and went back to her seat
                                before the fire, and sat watching the figure beside the table, the
                                firelight bathing her strong upright form and sharp aquiline
                                profile.
                            Nearly fifty years before her parents had left the Cape Colony, and
                                had set out on the long trek north?ward, and she, a young child, had
                                been brought with them. She had no remembrance of the colonial home.
                                Her first dim memories were of travelling in an ox?wagon; of dark
                                nights when a fire was lighted in the open air, and people sat round
                                it on the ground, and some faces seemed to stand out more than
                                others in her memory which she thought must be those of her father and mother and of an old
                                grandmother; she could remember lying awake in the back of the wagon
                                while it was moving on, and the stars were shining down on her; and
                                she had a vague memory of great wide plains with buck on them, which
                                she thought must have been in the Free State. But the first thing
                                which sprang out sharp and clear from the past was a day when she
                                and another child, a little boy cousin of her own age, were playing
                                among the bushes on the bank of a stream; she remembered how,
                                suddenly, as they looked through the bushes, they saw black men leap
                                out, and mount the ox?wagon outspanned under the trees; she
                                remembered how they shouted and dragged people along, and stabbed
                                them; she remembered how the blood gushed, and how they, the two
                                young children among the bushes, lay flat on their stomachs and did
                                not move or breathe, with that strange self?preserving instinct
                                found in the young of animals or men who grow up in the open.
                            She remembered how black smoke came out at the back of the wagon and
                                then red tongues of flame through the top; and even that some of the
                                branches of the tree under which the wagon stood caught fire. She
                                remembered later, when the black men had gone, and it was dark, that
                                they were very hungry, and crept out to where the wagon had stood,
                                and that they looked about on the ground for any scraps of food they
                                might pick up, and that when they could not find any they cried. She remembered
                                nothing clearly after that till some men with large beards and large
                                hats rode up on horseback: it might have been next day or the day
                                after. She remembered how they jumped off their horses and took them
                                up in their arms, and how they cried; but that they, the children,
                                did not cry, they only asked for food. She remembered how one man
                                took a bit of thick, cold roaster?cake out of his pocket, and gave
                                it to her, and how nice it tasted. And she remembered that the men
                                took them up before them on their horses, and that one man tied her
                                close to him with a large red handkerchief.
                            In the years that came she learnt to know that that which she
                                remembered so clearly was the great and terrible day when, at
                                Weenen, and in the country round, hundreds of women and children and
                                youths and old men fell before the Zulus, and the assegais of
                                Dingaan’s braves drank blood.
                            She learnt that on that day all of her house and name, from the
                                grandmother to the baby in arms, fell, and that she only and the boy
                                cousin, who had hidden with her among the bushes, were left of all
                                her kin in that Northern world. She learnt, too, that the man who
                                tied her to him with the red hand?kerchief took them back to his
                                wagon, and that he and his wife adopted them, and brought them up
                                among their own children.
                            
                            She remembered, though less clearly than the day of the fire, how a
                                few years later they trekked away from Natal, and went through great
                                mountain ranges, ranges in and near which lay those places the world
                                was to know later as Laings Nek, and Amajuba, and Ingogo;
                                Elands?laagte, Nicholson Nek, and Spion Kop. She remembered how at
                                last after many wanderings they settled down near the Witwaters
                                    Rand¹, where game was
                                plentiful and wild beasts were dangerous, but there were no natives,
                                and they were far from the English rule.
                            There the two children grew up among the children of those who had
                                adopted them, and were kindly treated by them as though they were
                                their own; it yet was but natural that these two of the same name
                                and blood should grow up with a peculiar tenderness for each other.
                                And so it came to pass that when they were both eighteen years old
                                they asked consent of the old people, who gave it gladly, that they
                                should marry. For a time the young couple lived on in the house with
                                the old, but after three years they gathered together all their few
                                goods and in their wagon, with their guns and ammunition and a few
                                sheep and cattle, they moved away northwards to found their own
                                home.
                            For a time they travelled here and travelled there, ¹“Witwaters Rand”—“White water’s ridge,” now known as the Rand,
                                    where Johannesburg and the great mines are situated. but at last they settled on a spot
                                where game was plentiful and the soil good, and there among the low
                                undulating slopes, near the bank of a dry sloot, the young man built
                                at last, with his own hands, a little house of two rooms.
                            On the long slope across the sloot before the house, he ploughed a
                                piece of land and enclosed it, and he built kraals for his stock and
                                so struck root in the land and wandered no more. Those were brave,
                                glad, free days to the young couple. They lived largely on the game
                                which the gun brought down, antelope and wildebeest that wandered
                                even past the doors at night; and now and again a lion was killed:
                                one no farther than the door of the round hut behind the house where
                                the meat and the milk were stored, and two were killed at the
                                kraals. Sometimes, too, traders came with their wagons and in
                                exchange for skins and fine horns sold sugar and coffee and print
                                and tan?cord, and such things as the little household had need of.
                                The lands yielded richly to them, in maize, and pumpkins, and
                                sweet?cane, and melons; and they had nothing to wish for. Then in
                                time three little sons were born to them, who grew as strong and
                                vigorous in the free life of the open veld as the young lions in the
                                long grass and scrub near the river four miles away. Those were
                                joyous, free years for the man and woman, in which disease, and
                                carking care, and anxiety played no part.
                            
                            Then came a day when their eldest son was ten years old, and the
                                father went out a?hunting with his Kaffir servants: in the evening
                                they brought him home with a wound eight inches long in his side
                                where a lioness had torn him; they brought back her skin also, as he
                                had shot her at last in the hand?to?throat struggle. He lingered for
                                three days and then died. His wife buried him on the low slope to
                                the left of the house; she and her Kaffir servants alone made the
                                grave and put him in it, for there were no white men near. Then she
                                and her sons lived on there; a new root driven deep into the soil
                                and binding them to it through the grave on the hill?side. She hung
                                her husband’s large hunting?watch up on the wall, and put three of
                                his guns over it on the rack, and the gun he had in his hand when he
                                met his death she took down and polished up every day; but one gun
                                she always kept loaded at the head of her bed in the inner room. She
                                counted the stock every night and saw that the Kaffirs ploughed the
                                lands, and she saw to the planting and watering of them herself.
                            Often as the years passed men of the country?side, and even from far
                                off, heard of the young handsome widow who lived alone with her
                                children and saw to her own stock and lands; and they came
                                a?courting. But many of them were afraid to say anything when once
                                they had come, and those who had spoken to her, when once she had
                                answered them, never came again.
                                About this time too the country?side began to fill in; and people
                                came and settled as near as eight and ten miles away; and as people
                                increased the game began to vanish, and with the game the lions, so
                                that the one her husband killed was almost the last ever seen there.
                                But there was still game enough for food, and when her eldest son
                                was twelve years old, and she gave him his father’s smallest gun to
                                go out hunting with, he returned home almost every day with meat
                                enough for the household tied behind his saddle. And as time passed
                                she came also to be known through the country?side as a “wise
                                woman.” People came to her to ask advice about their illnesses, or
                                to ask her to dress old wounds that would not heal; and when they
                                questioned her whether she thought the rains would be early, or the
                                game plentiful that year, she was nearly always right. So they
                                called her a “wise woman” because neither she nor they knew any word
                                in that up?country speech of theirs for the thing called “genius.”
                                So all things went well till the eldest son was eighteen, and the
                                dark beard was beginning to sprout on his face, and his mother began
                                to think that soon there might be a daughter in the house; for on
                                Saturday evenings, when his work was done, he put on his best
                                clothes and rode off to the next farm eight miles away, where was a
                                young daughter. His mother always saw that he had a freshly ironed
                                shirt waiting for him on his bed,
                                when he came home from the kraals on Saturday nights, and she made
                                plans as to how they would build on two rooms for the new daughter.
                                At this time he was training young horses to have them ready to sell
                                when the traders came round: he was a fine rider and it was always
                                his work. One afternoon he mounted a young horse before the door and
                                it bucked and threw him. He had often fallen before, but this time
                                his neck was broken. He lay dead with his head two feet from his
                                mother’s doorstep. They took up his tall, strong body and the next
                                day the neighbours came from the next farm and they buried him
                                beside his father, on the hill?side, and another root was struck
                                into the soil. Then the three who were left in the little farm?house
                                lived and worked on as before, for a year and more.
                            Then a small native war broke out, and the young burghers of the
                                district were called out to help. The second son was very young, but
                                he was the best shot in the district, so he went away with the
                                others. Three months after the men came back, but among the few who
                                did not return was her son. On a hot sunny afternoon, walking
                                through a mealie field which they thought was deserted and where the
                                dried yellow stalks stood thick, an assegai thrown from an unseen
                                hand found him, and he fell there. His comrades took him and buried
                                him under a large thorn tree, and scraped the earth smooth over him,
                                that his grave might not be found
                                by others. So he was not laid on the rise to the left of the house
                                with his kindred, but his mother’s heart went often to that thorn
                                tree in the far north. And now again there were only two in the
                                little mud?house; as there had been years before when the young man
                                and wife first settled there. She and her young lad were always
                                together night and day, and did an that they aid together, as though
                                they were mother and daughter. He was a fair lad, tall and gentle as
                                his father had been before him, not huge and dark as his two elder
                                brothers; but he seemed to ripen towards manhood early. When he was
                                only sixteen the thick white down was already gathering heavy on his
                                upper lip; his mother watched him narrowly, and had many thoughts in
                                her heart. One evening as they sat twisting wicks for the candles
                                together, she said to him, “You will be eighteen on your next
                                birthday, my son, that was your father’s age when he married me.” He
                                said, “Yes,” and they spoke no more then. But later in the evening
                                when they sat before the door she said to him: “We are very lonely
                                here. I often long to hear the feet of a little child about the
                                house, and to see one with your father’s blood in it play before the
                                door as you and your brothers played. Have you ever thought that you
                                are the last of your father’s name and blood left here in the north;
                                that if you died there would be none left?” He said he had thought
                                of it. Then she told him she
                                thought it would be well if he went away, to the part of the country
                                where the people lived who had brought her up: several of the sons
                                and daughters who had grown up with her had now grown up children.
                                He might go down and from among them seek out a young girl whom he
                                liked and who liked him; and if he found her, bring her back as a
                                wife. The lad thought very well of his mother’s plan. And when three
                                months were passed, and the ploughing season was over, he rode away
                                one day, on the best blackhorse they had, his Kaffir boy riding
                                behind him on another, and his mother stood at the gable watching
                                them ride away. For three months she heard nothing of him, for
                                trains were not in those days, and letters came rarely and by
                                chance, and neither he nor she could read or write. One afternoon
                                she stood at the gable end as she always stood when her work was
                                done, looking out along the road that came over the rise, and she
                                saw a large tent?wagon coming along it, and her son walking beside
                                it. She walked to meet it. When she had greeted her son and climbed
                                into the wagon she found there a girl of fifteen with pale flaxen
                                hair and large blue eyes whom he had brought home as his wife. Her
                                father had given her the wagon and oxen as her wedding portion. The
                                older woman’s heart wrapt itself about the girl as though she had
                                been the daughter she had dreamed to bear of her own body, and had
                                never borne.
                            
                            The three lived joyfully at the little house as though they were one
                                person. The young wife had been accustomed to live in a larger
                                house, and down south, where they had things they had not here. She
                                had been to school, and learned to read and write, and she could
                                even talk a little English; but she longed for none of the things
                                which she had had; the little brown house was home enough for
                                her.
                            After a year a child came, but, whether it were that the mother was
                                too young, it only opened its eyes for an hour on the world and
                                closed them again. The young mother wept bitterly, but her husband
                                folded his arms about her, and the mother comforted both. “You are
                                young, my children, but we shall yet hear the sound of children’s
                                voices in the house,” she said; and after a little while the young
                                mother was well again and things went on peacefully as before in the
                                little home.
                            But in the land things were not going on peacefully. That was the
                                time that the flag to escape from which the people had left their
                                old homes in the Colony, and had again left Natal when it followed
                                them there, and had chosen to face the spear of the savage, and the
                                conflict with wild beasts, and death by hunger and thirst in the
                                wilderness rather than live under, had by force and fraud unfurled
                                itself over them again. For the moment a great sullen silence
                                brooded over the land. The people, slow of thought, slow of speech, determined in action, and
                                unforgetting; sat still and waited. It was like the silence that
                                rests over the land before an up?country thunderstorm breaks.
                            Then words came, “They have not even given us the free government
                                they promised”—then acts—the people rose. Even in that remote
                                country?side the men began to mount their horses, and with their
                                guns ride away to help. In the little mud?house the young wife wept
                                much when he said that he too was going. But when his mother helped
                                him pack his saddle?bags she helped too; and on the day when the men
                                from the next farm went, he rode away also with his gun by his
                                side.
                            No direct news of the one they had sent away came to the waiting
                                women at the farm?house; then came fleet reports of the victories of
                                Ingogo and Amajuba. Then came an afternoon after he had been gone
                                two months. They had both been to the gable end to look out at the
                                road, as they did continually amid their work, and they had just
                                come in to drink their afternoon coffee when the Kaffir maid ran in
                                to say she saw someone coming along the road who looked like her
                                master. The women ran out. It was the white horse on which he had
                                ridden away, but they almost doubted if it were he. He rode bending
                                on his saddle, with his chin on his breast and his arm hanging at
                                his side. At first they thought he had been wounded, but when they had helped
                                him from his horse and brought him into the house they found it was
                                only a deadly fever which was upon him. He had crept home to them by
                                small stages. Hardly had he any spirit left to tell them of Ingogo,
                                Laings Nek, and Amajuba. For fourteen days he grew worse and on the
                                fifteenth day he died. And the two women buried him where the rest
                                of his kin lay on the hill?side.
                            And so it came to pass that on that warm star?light night the two
                                women were alone in the little mud?house with the stillness of the
                                veld about them; even their Kaffir servants asleep in their huts
                                beyond the kraals; and the very sheep lying silent in the starlight.
                                They two were alone in the little house, but they knew that before
                                morning they would not be alone, they were awaiting the coming of
                                the dead man’s child.
                            The young woman with her head on the table groaned. “If only my
                                husband were here still,” she wailed. The old woman rose and stood
                                beside her, passing her hard, work?worn hand gently over her
                                shoulder as if she were a little child. At last she induced her to
                                go and lie down in the inner room. When she had grown quieter and
                                seemed to have fallen into a light sleep the old woman came to the
                                front room again. It was almost two o’clock and the fire had burned
                                low under the large kettle. She scraped the coals together and went out of the front
                                door to fetch more wood, and closed the door behind her. The night
                                air struck cool and fresh upon her face after the close air of the
                                house, the stars seemed to be growing lighter as the night advanced,
                                they shot down their light as from a million polished steel points.
                                She walked to the back of the house where, beyond the round hut that
                                served as a store?room, the wood?pile lay. She bent down gathering
                                sticks and chips till her apron was full, then slowly she raised
                                herself and stood still. She looked upwards. It was a wonderful
                                night. The white band of the Milky Way crossed the sky overhead, and
                                from every side stars threw down their light, sharp as barbed
                                spears, from the velvety blue?black of the sky. The woman raised her
                                hand to her forehead as if pushing the hair farther off it, and
                                stood motionless, looking up. After a long time she dropped her hand
                                and began walking slowly towards the house. Yet once or twice on the
                                way she paused and stood looking up. When she went into the house
                                the woman in the inner room was again moving and moaning. She laid
                                the sticks down before the fire and went into the next room. She
                                bent down over the bed where the younger woman lay, and put her hand
                                upon her. “My daughter,” she said slowly, “be comforted. A wonderful
                                thing has happened to me. As I stood out in the starlight it was as
                                though a voice came down to me and
                                spoke. The child which will be born of you to?night will be a
                                man?child and he will live to do great things for his land and for
                                his people.”
                            Before morning there was the sound of a little wail in the mud?house:
                                and the child who was to do great things for his land and for his
                                people was born.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Six years passed; and all was as it had been at the little house
                                among the slopes. Only a new piece of land had been ploughed up and
                                added to the land before the house, so that the ploughed land now
                                almost reached to the ridge.
                            The young mother had grown stouter, and lost her pink and white; she
                                had become a working?woman, but she still had the large knot of
                                flaxen hair behind her head and the large wondering eyes. She had
                                many suitors in those six years, but she sent them all away. She
                                said the old woman looked after the farm as well as any man might,
                                and her son would be grown up by and by. The grandmother’s hair was
                                a little more streaked with grey, but it was as thick as ever, and
                                her shoulders as upright; only some of her front teeth had fallen
                                out, which made her lips close more softly.
                            The great change was that wherever the women went there was the
                                flaxen?haired child to walk beside them holding on to their skirts
                                or clasping their hands.
                            
                            The neighbours said they were ruining the child: they let his hair
                                grow long, like a girl’s, because it curled; and they never let him
                                wear velschoens like other children but always shop boots; and his
                                mother sat up at night to iron his pinafores as if the next day were
                                always a Sunday.
                            But the women cared nothing for what was said; to them he was not as
                                any other child. He asked them strange questions they could not
                                answer, and he never troubled them by wishing to go and play with
                                the little Kaffirs as other children trouble. When neighbours came
                                over and brought their children with them he ran away and hid in the
                                sloot to play by himself till they were gone. No, he was not like
                                other children!
                            When the women went to lie down on hot days after dinner sometimes,
                                he would say that he did not want to sleep; but he would not run
                                about and make a noise like other children—he would go and sit
                                outside in the shade of the house, on the front door?step, quite
                                still, with his little hands resting on his knees, and stare far
                                away at the ploughed lands on the slope, or the shadows nearer; the
                                women would open the bedroom window, and peep out to look at him as
                                he sat there.
                            The child loved his mother and followed her about to the milk house,
                                and to the kraals; but he loved his grandmother best.
                            
                            She told him stories.
                            When she went to the lands to see how the Kaffirs were ploughing he
                                would run at her side holding her dress; when they had gone a short
                                way he would tug gently at it and say, “Grandmother, tell me
                                things!”
                            And long before day broke, when it was yet quite dark, he would often
                                creep from the bed where he slept with his mother into his
                                grandmother’s bed in the corner; he would put his arms round her
                                neck and stroke her face till she woke, and then whisper softly,
                                “Tell me stories!” and she would tell them to him in a low voice not
                                to wake the mother, till the cock crowed and it was time to get up
                                and light the candle and the fire.
                            But what he liked best of all were the hot, still summer nights, when
                                the women put their chairs before the door because it was too warm
                                to go to sleep; and he would sit on the stool at his grandmother’s
                                feet and lean his head against her knees, and she would tell him on
                                and on of the things he liked to hear; and he would watch the stars
                                as they slowly set along the ridge, or the moonlight, casting
                                bright?edged shadows from the gable as she talked. Often after the
                                mother had got sleepy and gone in to bed the two sat there
                                together.
                            The stories she told him were always true stories of the things she
                                had seen or of things she had heard. Sometimes they were stories of
                                her own childhood: of the day when
                                she and his grandfather hid among the bushes, and saw the wagon
                                burnt; sometimes they were of the long trek from Natal to the
                                Transvaal; sometimes of the things which happened to her and his
                                grandfather when first they came to that spot among the ridges, of
                                how there was no house there nor lands, only two bare grassy slopes
                                when they outspanned their wagon there the first night; she told of
                                a lion she once found when she opened the door in the morning,
                                sitting, with paws crossed, upon the threshold, and how the
                                grandfather jumped out of bed and reopened the door two inches, and
                                shot it through the opening; the skin was kept in the round
                                storehouse still, very old and mangy.
                            Sometimes she told him of the two uncles who were dead, and of his
                                own father, and of all they had been and done. But sometimes she
                                told him of things much farther off: of the old Colony where she had
                                been born, but which she could not remember, and of the things which
                                happened there in the old days. She told him of how the British had
                                taken the Cape over, and of how the English had hanged their men at
                                the “Slachters Nek” for resisting the English Government, and of how
                                the friends and relations had been made to stand round to see them
                                hanged whether they would or no, and of how the scaffold broke down
                                as they were being hanged, and the people looking on cried aloud,
                                “It is the finger of God! They are
                                saved!” but how the British hanged them up again. She told him of
                                the great trek in which her parents had taken part to escape from
                                under the British flag; of the great battles with Moselikatse; and
                                of the murder of Retief and his men by Dingaan, and of Dingaan’s
                                Day. She told him how the British Government followed them into
                                Natal, and of how they trekked north and east to escape from it
                                again; and she told him of the later things, of the fight at Laings
                                Nek, and Ingogo, and Amajuba, where his father had been. Always she
                                told the same story in exactly the same words over and over again,
                                till the child knew them all by heart, and would ask for this and
                                then that.
                            The story he loved best, and asked for more often than all the
                                others, made his grandmother wonder, because it did not seem to her
                                the story a child would best like; it was not a story of
                                lion?hunting, or wars, or adventures. Continually when she asked
                                what she should tell him, he said, “About the mountains!”
                            It was the story of how the Boer women in Natal when the English
                                Commissioner came to annex their country, collected to meet him and
                                pointing toward the Drakens Berg Mountains said, “We go across those
                                mountains to freedom or to death!”
                            More than once, when she was telling him the story, she saw him
                                stretch out his little arm and raise his hand, as though he were
                                speaking.
                            One evening as he and his mother were coming home from the milking kraals, and it was
                                getting dark, and he was very tired, having romped about shouting
                                among the young calves and kids all the evening, he held her hand
                                tightly.
                            “Mother,” he said suddenly, “when I am grown up, I am going to
                                Natal.”
                            “Why, my child!” she asked him; “there are none of our family living
                                there now.”
                            He waited a little, then said, very slowly, “I am going to go and try
                                to get our land back!”
                            His mother started; if there were one thing she was more firmly
                                resolved on in her own mind than any other it was that he should
                                never go to the wars. She began to talk quickly of the old white cow
                                who had kicked the pail over as she was milked, and when she got to
                                the house she did not even mention to the grandmother what had
                                happened; it seemed better to forget.
                            One night in the rainy season when it was damp and chilly they sat
                                round the large fireplace in the front room.
                            Outside the rain was pouring in torrents and you could hear the water
                                rushing in the great dry sloot before the door. His grandmother, to
                                amuse him, had sprung some dried menlies in the great black pot and
                                sprinkled them with sugar, and now he sat on the stoof at her feet
                                with a large lump of the sticky sweetmeat in his hand, watching the
                                fire. His grandmother from above
                                him was watching it also, and his mother in her elbow?chair on the
                                other side of the fire had her eyes half closed and was nodding
                                already with the warmth of the room and her long day’s work. The
                                child sat so quiet, the hand with the lump of sweetmeat resting on
                                his knee, that his grandmother thought he had gone to sleep too.
                                Suddenly he said without looking up, “Grandmother?”
                            “Yes.”
                            He waited rather a long time, then said slowly, “Grandmother, did God
                                make the English too?”
                            She also waited for a while, then she said, “Yes, my child; He made
                                all things.”
                            They were silent again, and there was no sound but of the rain
                                falling and the fire cracking and the sloot rushing outside. Then he
                                threw his head backwards on to his grandmother’s knee and looking up
                                into her face, said, “But, grandmother, why did He make them?”
                            Then she too was silent for a long time. “My child,” at last she
                                said, “we cannot judge the ways of the Almighty. He does that which
                                seems good in His own eyes.”
                            The child sat up and looked back at the fire. Slowly he tapped his
                                knee with the lump of sweetmeat once or twice; then he began to
                                munch it; and soon the mother started wide awake and said it was
                                time for all to go to bed.
                            
                            The next morning his grandmother sat on the front doorstep cutting
                                beans in an iron basin; he sat beside her on the step pretending to
                                cut too, with a short, broken knife. Presently he left off and
                                rested his hands on his knees, looking away at the hedge beyond,
                                with his small forehead knit tight between the eyes.
                            “Grandmother,” he said suddenly, in a small, almost shrill voice, “do
                                the English want all the lands of all the
                                people?”
                            The handle of his grandmother’s knife as she cut clinked against the
                                iron side of the basin. “All they can get,” she said.
                            After a while he made a little movement almost like a sigh, and took
                                up his little knife again and went on cutting.
                            Some time after that, 
                                    when a
                                    whe an
                                 trader came by, his grandmother bought him a spelling?book
                                and a slate and pencils, and his mother began to teach him to read
                                and write. When she had taught him for a year he knew all she did.
                                Sometimes when she was setting him a copy and left a letter out in a
                                word, he would quietly take the pencil when she set it down and put
                                the letter in, not with any idea of correcting her, but simply
                                because it must be there.
                            Often at night when the child had gone to bed early, tired out with
                                his long day’s play, and the two women were left in the front room
                                with the tallow candle burning on
                                the table between them, then they talked of his future.
                            Ever since he had been born everything they had earned had been put
                                away in the wagon chest under the grandmother’s bed. When the
                                traders with their wagons came round the women bought nothing except
                                a few groceries and clothes for the child; even before they bought a
                                yard of cotton print for a new apron they talked long and solemnly
                                as to whether the old one might not be made to do by repatching; and
                                they mixed much more dry pumpkin and corn with their coffee than
                                before he was born. It was to earn more money that the large new
                                piece of land had been added to the lands before the house.
                            They were going to have him educated. First he was to be taught all
                                they could at home, then to be sent away to a great school in the
                                old Colony, and then he was to go over the sea to Europe and come
                                back an advocate or a doctor or a parson. The grandmother had made a
                                long journey to the next town, to find out from the minister just
                                how much it would cost to do it all.
                            In the evenings when they sat talking it over the mother generally
                                inclined to his becoming a parson. She never told the grandmother
                                why, but the real reason was because parsons do not go to the wars.
                                The grandmother generally favoured his becoming an advocate, because
                                he might become a judge. Some?
                                times they sat discussing these matters till the candle almost burnt
                                out.
                            “Perhaps, one day,” the mother would at last say, “he may yet become
                                President!”
                            Then the grandmother would slowly refold her hands across her apron
                                and say softly, “Who knows?—who knows?”
                            Often they would get the box out from under the bed (looking
                                carefully across to the corner to see he was fast asleep) and would
                                count out all the money, though each knew to a farthing how much was
                                there; then they would make it into little heaps, so much for this,
                                so much for that, and then they would count on their fingers how
                                many good seasons it would take to make the rest, and how old he
                                would be.
                            When he was eight and had learnt all his mother could teach him, they
                                sent him to school every day on an adjoining farm six miles off,
                                where the people had a schoolmaster. Every day he rode over on the
                                great white horse his father went to the wars with; his mother was
                                afraid to let him ride alone at first, but his grandmother said he
                                must learn to do everything alone. At four o’clock when he came back
                                one or other of the women was always looking out to see the little
                                figure on the tall horse coming over the ridge.
                            When he was eleven they gave him his father’s smallest gun; and one day not long after
                                he came back with his first small buck. His mother had the skin
                                dressed and bound with red, and she laid it as a mat under the
                                table, and even the horns she did not throw away, and saved them in
                                the round house, because it was his first.
                            When he was fourteen the schoolmaster said he could teach him no
                                more; that he ought to go to some larger school where they taught
                                Latin and other difficult things; they had not yet money enough and
                                he was not quite old enough to go to the old Colony, so they sent
                                him first to the High?veld, where his mother’s relations lived and
                                where there were good schools, where they taught the difficult
                                things; he could live with his mother’s relations and come back once
                                a year for the holidays.
                            They were great times when he came.
                            His mother made him koekies¹
                                and sasarties² and nice things
                                every day; and he used to sit on the stoof at her feet and let her
                                play with his hair like when he was quite small. With his
                                grandmother he talked. He tried to explain to her all he was
                                learning, and he read the English newspapers to her (she could
                                neither read in English nor Dutch), translating them. Most of all
                                she liked his Atlas. They would sometimes sit over it for half an
                                hour in the evening tracing ¹Koekies: little cakes.
                                ²Sasarties: meat prepared
                                    in a certain way. the
                                different lands and talking of them. On the warm nights he used
                                still to sit outside on the stool at her feet with his head against
                                her knee, and they used to discuss things that were happening in
                                other lands and in South Africa; and sometimes they sat there quite
                                still together.
                            It was now he who had the most stories to tell; he had seen
                                Krugersdorp, and Johannesburg, and Pretoria; he knew the world; he
                                was at Krugersdorp when Dr. Jameson made his raid. Sometimes he sat
                                for an hour, telling her of things, and she sat quietly
                                listening.
                            When he was seventeen, nearly eighteen, there was money enough in the
                                box to pay for his going to the Colony and then to Europe; and he
                                came home to spend a few months with them before he went.
                            He was very handsome now; not tall, and very slight, but with fair
                                hair that curled close to his head, and white hands like a town’s
                                man. All the girls in the country?side were in love with him. They
                                all wished he would come and see them. But he seldom rode from home
                                except to go to the next farm where he had been at school. There
                                lived little Aletta, who was the daughter of the woman his uncle had
                                loved before he went to the Kaffir war and got killed. She was only
                                fifteen years old, but they had always been great friends. She
                                netted him a purse of green silk. He said he would take it with him
                                to Europe, and would show it her
                                when he came back and was an advocate; and he gave her a book with
                                her name written in it, which she was to show to him.
                            These were the days when the land was full of talk; it was said the
                                English were landing troops in South Africa, and wanted to have war.
                                Often the neighbours from the nearest farms would come to talk about
                                it (there were more farms now, the country was filling in, and the
                                nearest railway station was only a day’s journey off), and they
                                discussed matters. Some said they thought there would be war; others
                                again laughed, and said it would be only Jameson and his white flag
                                again. But the grandmother shook her head, and if they asked her,
                                “Why,” she said, “it will not be the war of a week, nor of a month;
                                if it comes it will be the war of years,” but she would say nothing
                                more.
                            Yet sometimes when she and her grandson were walking along together
                                in the lands she would talk.
                            Once she said: “It is as if a great heavy cloud hung just above my
                                head, as though I wished to press it back with my hands and could
                                not. It will be a great war—a great war. Perhaps the English
                                Government will take the land for a time, but they will not keep it.
                                The gold they have fought for will divide them, till they slay one
                                another over it.”
                            Another day she said: “This land will be a great land one day with one people from the sea
                                to the north—but we shall not live to see it.”
                            He said to her: “But how can that be when we are all of different
                                races?”
                            She said: “The land will make us one. Were not our fathers of more
                                than one race?”
                            Another day, when she and he were sitting by the table after dinner,
                                she pointed to a sheet of exercise paper, on which he had been
                                working out a problem and which was covered with algebraical
                                symbols, and said, “In fifteen years’ time the Government of England
                                will not have one piece of land in all South Africa as large as that
                                sheet of paper.”
                            One night when the milking had been late and she and he were walking
                                down together from the kraals in the starlight she said to him: “If
                                this war comes let no man go to it lightly, thinking he will surely
                                return home, nor let him go expecting victory on the next day. It
                                will come at last, but not at first.” “Sometimes,” she said, “I wake
                                at night and it is as though the whole house were filled with
                                smoke—and I have to get up and go outside to breathe. It is as
                                though I saw my whole land blackened and desolate. But when I look
                                up it is as though a voice cried out to me, ‘Have no fear!’”
                            They were getting his things ready for him to go away after
                                Christmas. His mother was making him shirts and his grandmother was
                                having a kaross of jackals’ skins
                                made that he might take it with him to Europe where it was so cold.
                                But his mother noticed that whenever the grandmother was in the room
                                with him and he was not looking at her, her eyes were always
                                curiously fixed on him as though they were questioning something.
                                The hair was growing white and a little thin over her temples now;
                                but her eyes were as bright as ever, and she could do a day’s work
                                with any man.
                            One day when the youth was at the kraals helping the Kaffir boys to
                                mend a wall, and the mother was kneading bread in the front room,
                                and the grandmother washing up the breakfast things, the son of the
                                Field?Cornet came riding over from his father’s farm, which was
                                about twelve miles off. He stopped at the kraal and Jan and he stood
                                talking for some time, then they walked down to the farm?house, the
                                Kaffir boy leading the horse behind them. Jan stopped at the round
                                store, but the Field?Cornet’s son went to the front door. The
                                grandmother asked him in, and handed him some coffee, and the
                                mother, her hands still in the dough, asked him how?things were
                                going at his father’s farm, and if his mother’s young turkeys had
                                come out well, and she asked if he had met Jan at the kraals. He
                                answered the questions slowly, and sipped his coffee. Then he put
                                the cup down on the table; and said suddenly in the same measured
                                voice, staring at the wall in front
                                of him, that war had broken out, and his father had sent him round
                                to call out all fighting burghers.
                            The mother took her hands out of the dough and stood upright beside
                                the trough as though paralysed. Then she cried in a high, hard
                                voice, unlike her own, “Yes, but Jan cannot go! He is hardly
                                eighteen! He’s got to go and be educated in other lands! You can’t
                                take the only son of a widow!”
                            “Aunt” said the young man slowly, “no one will make him go.”
                            The grandmother stood resting the knuckles of both hands on the
                                table, her eyes fixed on the young man. “He shall decide himself,”
                                she said.
                            The mother wiped her hands from the dough and rushed past them and
                                out at the door; the grandmother followed slowly.
                            They found him in the shade at the back of the house, sitting on a
                                stump; he was cleaning the belt of his new Mauser which lay across
                                his knees.
                            “Jan,” his mother cried, grasping his shoulder, “you are not going
                                away! You can’t go! You must stay. You can go by Delagoa Bay if
                                there is fighting on the other side! There is plenty of money!”
                            He looked softly up into her face with his blue eyes. “We have all to
                                be at the Field Cornet’s at nine o’clock to?morrow morning,” he
                                said. She wept aloud and argued.
                            His grandmother turned slowly without speaking, and went back into the house. When she
                                had given the Field Cornet’s son another cup of coffee, and shaken
                                hands with him, she went into the bedroom and opened the box in
                                which her grandson’s clothes were kept, to see which things he
                                should take with him. After a time the mother came back too. He had
                                kissed her and talked to her until she too had at last said it was
                                right he should go.
                            All day they were busy. His mother baked him biscuits to take in his
                                bag, and his grandmother made a belt of two strips of leather; she
                                sewed them together herself and put a few sovereigns between the
                                stitchings. She said some of his comrades might need the money if he
                                did not.
                            The next morning early he was ready. There were two saddle?bags tied
                                to his saddle and before it was strapped the kaross his grandmother
                                had made; she said it would be useful when he had to sleep on damp
                                ground. When he had greeted them, he rode away towards the rise: and
                                the women stood at the gable of the house to watch him.
                            When he had gone a little way he turned in his saddle, and they could
                                see he was smiling; he took off his hat and waved it in the air; the
                                early morning sunshine made his hair as yellow as the tassels that
                                hang from the head of ripening mealies. His mother covered her face
                                with the sides of her kappie and wept aloud; but the grandmother
                                shaded her eyes with both her hands
                                and stood watching him till the figure passed out of sight over the
                                ridge; and when it was gone and the mother returned to the house
                                crying, she still stood watching the line against the sky.
                            The two women were very quiet during the next days, they worked hard,
                                and seldom spoke. After eight days there came a long letter from him
                                (there was now a post once a week from the station to the Field
                                Cornet’s). He said he was well and in very good spirits. He had been
                                to Krugersdorp, and Johannesburg, and Pretoria; all the family
                                living there were well and sent greetings. He had joined a corps
                                that was leaving for the front the next day. He sent also a long
                                message to Aletta, asking them to tell her he was sorry to go away
                                without saying good?bye; and he told his mother how good the
                                biscuits and biltong were she had put into his saddle?bag; and he
                                sent her a piece of “vier?kleur” ribbon in the letter, to wear on
                                her breast.
                            The women talked a great deal for a day or two after this letter
                                came. Eight days after there was a short note from him, written in
                                pencil in the train on his way to the front. He said all was going
                                well, and if he did not write soon they were not to be anxious; he
                                would write as often as he could.
                            For some days the women discussed that note too.
                            Then came two weeks without a letter, the two women became very silent. Every day they
                                sent the Kaffir boy over to the Field Cornet’s, even on the days
                                when there was no post, to hear if there was any news.
                            Many reports were flying about the country?side. Some said that an
                                English armoured train had been taken on the western border; that
                                there had been fighting at Albertina, and in Natal. But nothing
                                seemed quite certain.
                            Another week passed.... Then the two women became very quiet.
                            The grandmother, when she saw her daughter?in?law left the food
                                untouched on her plate, said there was no need to be anxious; men at
                                the front could not always find paper and pencils to write with and
                                might be far from any post office. Yet night after night she herself
                                would rise from her bed saying she felt the house close, and go and
                                walk up and down outside.
                            Then one day suddenly all their servants left them except one Kaffir
                                and his wife, whom they had had for years, and the servants from the
                                farms about went also, which was a sign there had been news of much
                                fighting; for the Kaffirs hear things long before the white man
                                knows them.
                            Three days after, as the women were clearing off the breakfast
                                things, the youngest son of the Field?Cornet, who was only fifteen
                                and had not gone to the war with
                                the others, rode up. He hitched his horse to the post, and came
                                towards the door. The mother stepped forward to meet him and shook
                                hands in the doorway.
                            “I suppose you have come for the carrot seed I promised your mother?
                                I was not able to send it, as our servants ran away,” she said, as
                                she shook his hand. “There isn’t a letter from Jan, is there?” The
                                lad said no, there was no letter from him, and shook hands with the
                                grandmother. He stood by the table instead of sitting down.
                            The mother turned to the fireplace to get coals to put under the
                                coffee to rewarm it; but the grandmother stood leaning forward with
                                her eyes fixed on him from across the table. He felt uneasily in his
                                breast pocket.
                            “Is there no news?” the mother said without looking round, as she
                                bent over the fire.
                            “Yes, there is news, Aunt.”
                            She rose quickly and turned towards him, putting down the brazier on
                                the table. He took a letter out of his breast pocket. “Aunt, my
                                father said I must bring this to you. It came inside one to him and
                                they asked him to send one of us over with it.”
                            The mother took the letter; she held it, examining the address.
                            “It looks to me like the writing of Sister Annie’s Paul,” she said.
                                “Perhaps there is news of Jan in
                                it”—she turned to them with a half?nervous smile—“they were always
                                such friends.”
                            “All is as God wills, Aunt,” the young man said, looking down fixedly
                                at the top of his riding?whip.
                            But the grandmother leaned forward motionless, watching her
                                daughter?in?law as she opened the letter.
                            She began to read to herself, her lips moving slowly as she
                                deciphered it word by word.
                            Then a piercing cry rang through the roof of the little
                                mud?farm?house.
                            “He is dead! My boy is dead!”
                            She flung the letter on the table and ran out at the front door.
                            Far out across the quiet ploughed lands and over the veld to where
                                the kraals lay the cry rang. The Kaffir woman who sat outside her
                                hut beyond the kraals nursing her baby heard it and came down with
                                her child across her hip to see what was the matter. At the side of
                                the round house she stood motionless and open?mouthed, watching the
                                woman, who paced up and down behind the house with her apron thrown
                                over her head and her hands folded above it, crying aloud.
                            In the front room the grandmother, who had not spoken since he came,
                                took up the letter and put it in the lad’s hands. “Read,” she
                                whispered.
                            And slowly the lad spelled it out.
                            
                            
                                ‘MY DEAR AUNT,
                                ‘I hope this letter finds you well. The Commandant has asked me
                                    to write it.
                                ‘We had a great fight four days ago, and Jan is dead. The
                                    Commandant says I must tell you how it happened. Aunt, there
                                    were five of us first in a position on that koppie, but two got
                                    killed, and then there were only three of us—Jan, and I, and
                                    Uncle Peter’s Frikkie. Aunt, the khakies¹ were coming on all round
                                    just like locusts, and the bullets were coming just like hail.
                                    It was bare on that side of the koppie where we were, but we had
                                    plenty of cartridges. We three took up a position where there
                                    were some small stones and we fought, Aunt; we had to. One
                                    bullet took off the top of my ear, and Jan got two bullets, one
                                    through the flesh in the left leg and one through his arm, but
                                    he could still fire his gun. Then we three meant to go to the
                                    top of the koppie, but a bullet took Jan right through his
                                    chest. We knew he couldn’t go any farther. The khakies were
                                    right at the foot of the koppie just coming up. He told us to
                                    lay him down, Aunt. We said we would stay by him, but he said we
                                    must go. I put my jacket under his head and Frikkie put his over
                                    his feet. We threw his gun far away from him that they might see
                                    how it was with him. He said he hadn’t much pain, ¹Khakies:
                                        soldiers. Aunt. He
                                    was full of blood from his arm, but there wasn’t much from his
                                    chest, only a little out of the corners of his mouth. He said we
                                    must make haste or the khakies would catch us; he said he wasn’t
                                    afraid to be left there.
                                ‘Aunt, when we got to the top, it was all full of khakies like
                                    the sea on the other side, all among the koppies and on our
                                    koppie too. We were surrounded, Aunt; the last I saw of Frikkie
                                    he was sitting on a stone with the blood running down his face,
                                    but he got under a rock and hid there; some of our men found him
                                    next morning and brought him to camp. Aunt, there was a khakie’s
                                    horse standing just below where I was, with no one on it. I
                                    jumped on and rode. The bullets went this way and the bullets
                                    went that, but I rode! Aunt, the khakies were sometimes as near
                                    me as that tent?pole, only the Grace of God saved me. It was
                                    dark in the night when I got back to where our people were,
                                    because I had to go round all the koppies to get away from the
                                    khakies.
                                ‘Aunt, the next day we went to look for him. We found him where
                                    we left him; but he was turned over on to his face; they had
                                    taken all his things, his belt and his watch, and the pugaree
                                    from his hat, even his boots. The little green silk purse he
                                    used to carry we found on the ground by him, but nothing in it.
                                    I will send it back to you whenever I get an opportunity.
                                
                                ‘Aunt, when we turned him over on his back there were four
                                    bayonet stabs in his body. The doctor says it was only the first
                                    three while he was alive; the last one was through his heart and
                                    killed him at once.
                                ‘We gave him Christian burial, Aunt; we took him to the camp.
                                ‘The Commandant was there, and all of the family who are with the
                                    Commando were there, and they all said they hoped God would
                                    comfort you.’
                            
                            The old woman leaned forward and grasped the boy’s arm. “Read it over
                                again,” she said, “from where they found him.” He turned back and
                                re?read slowly. She gazed at the page as though she were reading
                                also. Then, suddenly, she slipped out at the front door.
                            At the back of the house she found her daughter?in?law still walking
                                up and down, and the Kaffir woman with a red handkerchief bound
                                round her head and the child sitting across her hip, sucking from
                                her long, pendulous breast, looking on.
                            The old woman walked up to her daughter?in?law and grasped her firmly
                                by the arm.
                            “He’s dead! You know, my boy’s dead!” she cried, drawing the apron
                                down with her right hand and disclosing her swollen and bleared
                                face. “Oh, his beautiful hair—Oh, his beautiful hair!”
                            
                            The old woman held her arm tighter with both hands; the younger
                                opened her half?closed eyes, and looked into the keen, clear eyes
                                fixed on hers, and stood arrested.
                            The old woman drew her face closer to hers. “You ... do ... not ...
                                know ... what ... has ... happened!” she spoke slowly, her tongue
                                striking her front gum, the jaw moving stiffly, as though partly
                                paralysed. She loosed her left hand and held up the curved work?worn
                                fingers before her daughter?in?law’s face. “Was it not told me ...
                                the night he was born ... here ... at this spot ... that he would do
                                great things ... great things ... for his land and his people?” She
                                bent forward till her lips almost touched the other’s. “Three ...
                                bullet ... wounds ... and four ... bayonet ... stabs!” She raised
                                her left hand high in the air. “Three ... bullet ... wounds ... and
                                four ... bayonet ... stabs! ... Is it given to many to die so for
                                their land and their people!”
                            The younger woman gazed into her eyes, her own growing larger and
                                larger. She let the old woman lead her by the arm in silence into
                                the house.
                            The Field?Cornet’s son was gone, feeling there was nothing more to be
                                done; and the Kaffir woman went back with her baby to her hut beyond
                                the kraals. All day the house was very silent. The Kaffir woman
                                wondered that no smoke rose from the farm?house chimney, and that she was not called to
                                churn, or wash the pots. At three o’clock she went down to the
                                house. As she passed the grated window of the round out?house she
                                saw the buckets of milk still standing unsifted¹ on the floor as they had been
                                set down at breakfast time, and under the great soap?pot beside the
                                wood pile the fire had died out. She went round to the front of the
                                house and saw the door and window shutters still closed, as though
                                her mistresses were still sleeping. So she rebuilt the fire under
                                the soap?pot and went back to her hut.
                            It was four o’clock when the grandmother came out from the dark inner
                                room where she and her daughter?in?law had been lying down; she
                                opened the top of the front door, and lit the fire with twigs, and
                                set the large black kettle over it. When it boiled she made coffee,
                                and poured out two cups and set them on the table with a plate of
                                biscuits, and then called her daughter?in?law from the inner
                                room.
                            The two women sat down one on each side of the table, with their
                                coffee cups before them, and the biscuits between them, but for a
                                time they said nothing, but sat silent, looking out through the open
                                door at the shadow of the house and the afternoon sunshine beyond
                                it. At last the older woman motioned that the younger should drink
                                her coffee. She took a little, and then folding her arms on the
                                    ¹
                                    Unsifted: unstrained.
                                table rested her head on them, and sat motionless as if asleep.
                            The older woman broke up a biscuit into her own cup, and stirred it
                                round and round; and then, without tasting, sat gazing out into the
                                afternoon’s sunshine till it grew cold beside her.
                            It was five, and the heat was quickly dying; the glorious golden
                                colouring of the later afternoon was creeping over everything when
                                she rose from her chair. She moved to the door and took from behind
                                it two large white calico bags hanging there, and from nails on the
                                wall she took down two large brown cotton kappies. She walked round
                                the table and laid her hand gently on her daughter?in?law’s arm. The
                                younger woman raised her head slowly and looked up into her
                                mother?in?law’s face; and then, suddenly, she knew that her
                                mother?in?law was an old, old, woman. The little shrivelled face
                                that looked down at her was hardly larger than a child’s, the
                                eyelids were half closed and the lips worked at the corners and the
                                bones cut out through the skin in the temples.
                            “I am going out to sow—the ground will be getting too dry to?morrow;
                                will you come with me?” she said gently.
                            The younger woman made a movement with her hand, as though she said
                                “What is the use?” and redropped her hand on the table.
                            
                            “It may go on for long, our burghers must have food,” the old woman
                                said gently.
                            The younger woman looked into her face, then she rose slowly and
                                taking one of the brown kappies from her hand, put it on, and hung
                                one of the bags over her left arm; the old woman did the same and
                                together they passed out of the door. As the older woman stepped
                                down the younger caught her and saved her from falling.
                            “Take my arm, mother,” she said.
                            But the old woman drew her shoulders up. “I only stumbled a little!”
                                she said quickly. “That step has been always too high”; but before
                                she reached the plank over the sloot the shoulders had drooped
                                again, and the neck fallen forward.
                            The mould in the lands was black and soft; it lay in long ridges, as
                                it had been ploughed up a week before, but the last night’s rain had
                                softened it and made it moist and ready for putting in the seed.
                            The bags which the women carried on their arms were full of the seed
                                of pumpkins and mealies. They began to walk up the lands, keeping
                                parallel with the low hedge of dried bushes that ran up along the
                                side of the sloot almost up to the top of the ridge. At every few
                                paces they stopped and bent down to press into the earth, now one
                                and then the other kind of seed from their bags. Slowly they walked
                                up and down till they reached the top of the land almost on the horizon line; and then they
                                turned, and walked down, sowing as they went. When they had reached
                                the bottom of the land before the farm?house it was almost sunset,
                                and their bags were nearly empty; but they turned to go up once
                                more. The light of the setting sun cast long, gaunt shadows from
                                their figures across the ploughed land, over the low hedge and the
                                sloot, into the bare veld beyond; shadows that grew longer and
                                longer as they passed slowly on pressing in the seeds ... The seeds!
                                ... that were to lie in the dank, dark, earth, and rot there,
                                seemingly, to die, till their outer covering had split and fallen
                                from them ... and then, when the rains had fallen, and the sun had
                                shone, to come up above the earth again, and high in the clear air
                                to lift their feathery plumes and hang out their pointed leaves and
                                silken tassels! To cover the ground with a mantle of green and gold
                                through which sunlight quivered, over which the insects hung by
                                thousands, carrying yellow pollen on their legs and wings and making
                                the air alive with their hum and stir, while grain and fruit ripened
                                surely ... for the next season’s harvest!
                            When the sun had set, the two women with their empty bags turned and
                                walked silently home in the dark to the farm?house.
                        
                        
                        
                            NINETEEN HUNDRED AND ONE
                            Near one of the camps in the Northern Transvaal are the graves of two
                                women. The older one died first, on the twenty?third of the month,
                                from hunger and want; the younger woman tended her with ceaseless
                                care and devotion till the end. A week later when the British
                                Superintendent came round to inspect the tents, she was found lying
                                on her blanket on the mud?floor dead, with the rations of bread and
                                meat she had got four days before untouched on a box beside her.
                                Whether she died of disease, or from inability to eat the food, no
                                one could say. Some who had seen her said she hardly seemed to care
                                to live after the old woman died; they buried them side by side.
                            There is no stone and no name upon either grave to say who lies there
                                ... our unknown ... our unnamed ... our forgotten dead.
                        
                        
                            IN THE YEAR NINETEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR
                            If you look for the little farm?house among the ridges you will not
                                find it there to?day.
                            The English soldiers burnt it down. You can only see where the
                                farm?house once stood, because the stramonia and weeds grow high and
                                very strong there; and where the ploughed lands were you can only
                                    tell, because the veld never
                                grows quite the same on land that has once been ploughed. Only a
                                brown patch among the long grass on the ridge shows where the kraals
                                and huts once were.
                            In a country house in the north of England the owner has upon his
                                wall an old flint?lock gun. He takes it down to show his friends. It
                                is a small thing he picked up in the war in South Africa, he says.
                                It must be at least eighty years old and is very valuable. He shows
                                how curiously it is constructed; he says it must have been kept in
                                such perfect repair by continual polishing for the steel shines as
                                if it were silver. He does not tell that he took it from the wall of
                                the little mud house before he burnt it down.
                            It was the grandfather’s gun, which the women had kept polished on
                                the wall.
                            In a London drawing?room the descendant of a long line of titled
                                forefathers entertains her guests. It is a fair?room, and all that
                                money can buy to make life soft and beautiful is there.
                            On the carpet stands a little dark wooden stoof. When one of her
                                guests notices it, she says it is a small curiosity which her son
                                brought home to her from South Africa when he was out in the war
                                there; and how good it was of him to think of her when he was away
                                in the back country. And when they ask what it is, she says it is a
                                thing Boer women have as a footstool and to keep their feet warm;
                                and she shows the hole at the side
                                where they put the coals in, and the little holes at the top where
                                the heat comes out.
                            And the other woman puts her foot out and rests it on the stool just
                                to try how it feels, and drawls “How f?u?n?n?y!”
                            It is grandmother’s stoof, that the child used to sit on.
                            The wagon chest was found and broken open just before the thatch
                                caught fire, by three private soldiers, and they divided the money
                                between them; one spent his share in drink, another had his stolen
                                from him, but the third sent his home to England to a girl in the
                                East End of London. With part of it she bought a gold brooch and
                                ear?rings, and the rest she saved to buy a silk wedding?dress when
                                he came home.
                            A syndicate of Jews in Johannesburg and London have bought the farm.
                                They purchased it from the English Government, because they think to
                                find gold on it. They have purchased it and paid for it ... but they
                                do not possess it.
                            Only the men who lie in their quiet graves upon the hill?side, who
                                lived on it, and loved it, possess it; and the piles of stones above
                                them, from among the long waving grasses, keep watch over the
                                land.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Buddhist Priest’s Wife
                        
                        THE BUDDHIST PRIEST’S WIFE
                        COVER her up! How still it lies! You can see the outline under
                            the white. You would think she was asleep. Let the sunshine come in; it
                            loved it so. She that had travelled so far, in so many lands, and done
                            so much and seen so much, how she must like rest now! Did she ever love
                            anything absolutely, this woman whom so many men loved, and so many
                            women; who gave so much sympathy and never asked for anything in return!
                            did she ever need a love she could not have? Was she never obliged to
                            unclasp her fingers from anything to which they clung? Was she really so
                            strong as she looked? Did she never wake up in the night crying for that
                            which she could not have? Were thought and travel enough for her? Did
                            she go about for long days with a weight that crushed her to earth?
                            Cover her up! I do not think she would have liked us to look at her. In
                            one way she was alone all her life; she would have liked to be alone
                            now!... Life must have been very
                            beautiful to her, or she would not look so young now. Cover her up! Let
                            us go!
                        Many years ago in a London room, up long flights of stairs, a fire burnt
                            up in a grate. It showed the marks on the walls where pictures had been
                            taken down, and the little blue flowers in the wall?paper and the blue
                            felt carpet on the floor, and a woman sat by the fire in a chair at one
                            side.
                        Presently the door opened, and the old woman came in who took care of the
                            entrance hall downstairs.
                        “Do you not want anything to?night?” she said.
                        “No, I am only waiting for a visitor; when they have been, I shall
                            go.”
                        “Have you got all your things taken away already?”
                        “Yes, only these I am leaving.”
                        The old woman went down again, but presently came up with a cup of tea in
                            her hand.
                        “You must drink that; it’s good for one. Nothing helps one like tea when
                            one’s been packing all day.”
                        The young woman at the fire did not thank her, but she ran her hand over
                            the old woman’s from the wrist to the fingers.
                        “I’ll say good?bye to you when I go out.”
                        The woman poked the fire, put the last coals on, and went.
                        When she had gone the young one did not drink the tea, but drew her
                            little silver cigarette case from her
                            pocket and lighted a cigarette. For a while she sat smoking by the fire;
                            then she stood up and walked the room.
                        When she had paced for a while she sat down again beside the fire. She
                            threw the end of her cigarette away into the fire, and then began to
                            walk again with her hands behind her. Then she went back to her seat and
                            lit another cigarette, and paced again. Presently she sat down, and
                            looked into the fire; she pressed the palms of her hands together, and
                            then sat quietly staring into it.
                        Then there was, a sound of feet on the stairs and someone knocked at the
                            door.
                        She rose and threw the end into the fire and said without moving, “Come
                            in.”
                        The door opened and a man stood there in evening dress. He had a
                            great?coat on, open in front.
                        “May I come in? I couldn’t get rid of this downstairs; I didn’t see where
                            to leave it!” He took his coat off. “How are you? This is a real bird’s
                            nest!”
                        She motioned to a chair. 
                        “I hope you did not mind my asking you to come?”
                        “Oh no, I am delighted. I only found your note at my club twenty minutes
                            ago.”
                        He sat down on a chair before the fire.
                        “So you really are going to India? How delightful! But what are you to do
                            there? I think it was Grey told me six
                            weeks ago you were going, but regarded it as one of those mythical
                            stories which don’t deserve credence. Yet I’m sure I don’t know! Why,
                            nothing would surprise me.”
                        He looked at her in a half?amused, half?interested way.
                        “What a long time it is since we met! Six months, eight?”
                        “Seven,” she said.
                        “I really thought you were trying to avoid me. What have you been doing
                            with yourself all this time?”
                        “Oh, been busy. Won’t you have a cigarette?”
                        She held out the little case to him.
                        “Won’t you take one yourself? I know you object to smoking with men, but
                            you can make an exception in my case!”
                        “Thank you.” She lit her own and passed him the matches.
                        “But really what have you been doing with yourself all this time? You’ve
                            entirely disappeared from civilised life. When I was down at the
                            Grahams’ in the spring, they said you were coming down there, and then
                            at the last moment cried off. We were all quite disappointed. What is
                            taking you to India now? Going to preach the doctrine of social and
                            intellectual equality to the Hindu women and incite them to revolt?
                            Marry some old Buddhist Priest, build a little cottage on the top of the
                            Himalayas and live there, discuss
                            philosophy and meditate? I believe that’s what you’d like. I really
                            shouldn’t wonder if I heard you’d done it!”
                        She laughed and took out her cigarette case.
                        She smoked slowly.
                        “I’ve been here a long time, four years, and I want change. I was glad to
                            see how well you succeeded in that election,” she said. “You were much
                            interested in it, were you not?”
                        “Oh, yes. We had a stiff fight. It tells in my favour, you know, though
                            it was not exactly a personal matter. But it was a great worry.”
                        “Don’t you think,” she said, “you were wrong in sending that letter to
                            the papers? It would have strengthened your position to have remained
                            silent.”
                        “Yes, perhaps so; I think so now, but I did it under advice. However,
                            we’ve won, so it’s all right.” He leaned back in the chair.
                        “Are you pretty fit?”
                        “Oh, yes; pretty well; bored, you know. One doesn’t know what all this
                            working and striving is for sometimes.”
                        “Where are you going for your holiday this year?”
                        “Oh, Scotland, I suppose; I always do; the old quarters.”
                        “Why don’t you go to Norway? It would be more change for you and rest you
                            more. Did you get a book on sport in Norway?”
                        
                        “Did you send it me? How kind of you! I read it with much interest. I was
                            almost inclined to start off there and then. I suppose it is the kind of
                                vis inertiæ that creeps over one
                            as one grows older that sends one back to the old place. A change would
                            be much better.”
                        “There’s a list at the end of the book” she said, “of exactly the things
                            one needs to take. I thought it would save trouble; you could just give
                            it to your man, and let him get them all. Have you still got him?”
                        “Oh, yes. He’s as faithful to me as a dog. I think nothing would induce
                            him to leave me. He won’t allow me to go out hunting since I sprained my
                            foot last autumn. I have to do it surreptitiously. He thinks I can’t
                            keep my seat with a sprained ankle; but he’s a very good fellow; takes
                            care of me like a mother.” He smoked quietly with the firelight glowing
                            on his black coat. “But what are you going to India for? Do you know
                            anyone there?”
                        “No,” she said. “I think it will be so splendid. I’ve always been a great
                            deal interested in the East. It’s a complex, interesting life.”
                        He turned and looked at her.
                        “Going to seek for more experience, you’ll say, I suppose. I never knew a
                            woman throw herself away as you do; a woman with your brilliant parts
                            and attractions, to let the whole of life slip through your hands, and make nothing of it. You ought to
                            be the most successful woman in London. Oh, yes; I know what you are
                            going to say: ‘You don’t care.’ That’s just it; you don’t. You are
                            always going to get experience, going to get everything, and you never
                            do. You are always going to write when you know enough, and you are
                            never satisfied that you do. You ought to be making your two thousand a
                            year, but you don’t care. That’s just it! Living, burying yourself here
                            with a lot of old frumps. You will never do anything. You could have
                            everything and you let it slip.”
                        “Oh, my life is very full,” she said. “There are only two things that are
                            absolute realities, love and knowledge, and you can’t escape them.”
                        She had thrown her cigarette end away and was looking into the fire,
                            smiling.
                        “I’ve let these rooms to a woman friend of mine.” She glanced round the
                            room, smiling. “She doesn’t know I’m going to leave these things here
                            for her. She’ll like them because they were mine. The world’s very
                            beautiful, I think—delicious.”
                        “Oh, yes. But what do you do with it? What do you make of it? You ought
                            to settle down and marry like other women, not go wandering about the
                            world to India and China and Italy, and God knows where. You are simply
                            making a mess of your life. You’re always surrounding yourself with all
                                sorts of extraordinary people. If I
                            hear any man or woman is a great friend of yours, I always say: ‘What’s
                            the matter? Lost his money? Lost his character? Got an incurable
                            disease?’ I believe the only way in which anyone becomes interesting to
                            you is by having some complaint of mind or body. I believe you worship
                            rags. To come and shut yourself up in a place like this away from
                            everybody and everything! It’s a mistake; it’s idiotic, you know.”
                        “I’m very happy,” she said. “You see,” she said, leaning forwards towards
                            the fire with her hands on her knees, “what matters is that something
                            should need you. It isn’t a question of love. What’s the use of being
                            near a thing if other people could serve it as well as you can. If they
                            could serve it better, it’s pure selfishness. It’s the need of one thing
                            for another that makes the organic bond of union. You love mountains and
                            horses, but they don’t need you; so what’s the use of saying anything
                            about it! I suppose the most absolutely delicious thing in life is to
                            feel a thing needs you, and to give at the moment it needs. Things that
                            don’t need you, you must love from a distance.”
                        “Oh, but a woman like you ought to marry, ought to have children. You go
                            squandering yourself on every old beggar or forlorn female or escaped
                            criminal you meet; it may be very nice for them, but it’s a mistake from
                            your point of view.”
                        
                        He touched the ash gently with the tip of his little finger and let it
                            fall.
                        “I intend to marry. It’s a curious thing,” he said, resuming his pose
                            with an elbow on one knee and his head bent forward on one side, so that
                            she saw the brown hair with its close curls a little tinged with grey at
                            the sides, “that when a man reaches a certain age he wants to marry. He
                            doesn’t fall in love; it’s not that he definitely plans anything; but he
                            has a feeling that he ought to have a home and a wife and children. I
                            suppose it is the same kind of feeling that makes a bird build nests at
                            certain times of the year. It’s not love; it’s something else. When I
                            was a young man I used to despise men for getting married; wondered what
                            they did it for; they had everything to lose and nothing to gain. But
                            when a man gets to be six?and?thirty his feeling changes. It’s not love,
                            passion, he wants; it’s a home; it’s a wife and children. He may have a
                            house and servants; it isn’t the same thing. I should have thought a
                            woman would have felt it too.”
                        She was quiet for a minute, holding a cigarette between her fingers; then
                            she said slowly:
                        “Yes, at times a woman has a curious longing to have a child, especially
                            when she gets near to thirty or over it. It’s something distinct from
                            love for any definite person. But it’s a thing one has to get over. For
                            a woman, marriage is much more serious than for a man. She might pass her life without
                            meeting a man whom she could possibly love, and, if she met him, it
                            might not be right or possible. Marriage has become very complex now it
                            has become so largely intellectual. Won’t you have another?”
                        She held out the case to him. “You can light it from mine.” She bent
                            forward for him to light it.
                        “You are a man who ought to marry. You’ve no absorbing mental work with
                            which the woman would interfere; it would complete you.” She sat back,
                            smoking serenely.
                        “Yes,” he said, “but life is too busy; I never find time to look for one,
                            and I haven’t a fancy for the pink?and?white prettiness so common and
                            that some men like so. I need something else. If I am to have a wife I
                            shall have to go to America to look for one.”
                        “Yes, an American would suit you best.”
                        “Yes,” he said, “I don’t want a woman to look after; she must be
                            self?sustaining and she mustn’t bore you. You know what I mean. Life is
                            too full of cares to have a helpless child added to them.”
                        “Yes,” she said, standing up and leaning with her elbow against the
                            fireplace. “The kind of woman you want would be young and strong; she
                            need not be excessively beautiful, but she must be at? tractive; she must have energy, but not too
                            strongly marked an individuality; she must be largely neutral; she need
                            not give you too passionate or too deep a devotion, but she must second
                            you in a thoroughly rational manner. She must have the same aims and
                            tastes that you have. No woman has the right to marry a man if she has
                            to bend herself out of shape for him. She might wish to, but she could
                            never be to him with all her passionate endeavour what the other woman
                            could be to him without trying. Character will dominate over all and
                            will come out at last.”
                        She looked down into the fire.
                        “When you marry you mustn’t marry a woman who flatters you too much. It
                            is always a sign of falseness somewhere. If a woman absolutely loves you
                            as herself, she will criticise and understand you as herself. Two people
                            who are to live through life together must be able to look into each
                            other’s eyes and speak the truth. That helps one through life. You would
                            find many such women in America,” she said: “women who would help you to
                            succeed, who would not drag you down.”
                        “Yes, that’s my idea. But how am I to obtain the ideal woman?”
                        “Go and look for her. Go to America instead of Scotland this year. It is
                            perfectly right. A man has a right to look for what he needs. With a
                            woman it is different. That’s one of
                            the radical differences between men and women.”
                        She looked downwards into the fire.
                        “It’s a law of her nature and of sex relationship.’ There’s nothing
                            arbitrary or conventional about it any more than there is in her having
                            to bear her child while the male does not. Intellectually we may both be
                            alike. I suppose if fifty men and fifty women had to solve a
                            mathematical problem, they would all do it in the same way; the more
                            abstract and intellectual, the more alike we are. The nearer you
                            approach to the personal and sexual, the more different we are. If I
                            were to represent men’s and women’s natures,” she said, “by a diagram, I
                            would take two circular discs; the right side of each I should paint
                            bright red; then I would shade the red away till in a spot on the left
                            edge it became blue in the one and green in the other. That spot
                            represents sex, and the nearer you come to it, the more the two discs
                            differ in colour. Well then, if you turn them so that the red sides
                            touch, they seem to be exactly alike, but if you turn them so that the
                            green and blue paint form their point of contact, they will seem to be
                            entirely unlike. That’s why you notice the brutal, sensual men
                            invariably believe women are entirely different from men, another
                            species of creature; and very cultured, intellectual men sometimes
                            believe we are exactly alike. You see, sex love in its substance may be the same in both of us; in the
                            form of its expression it must differ. It is not man’s fault; it is
                            nature’s. If a man loves a woman, he has a right to try to make her love
                            him because he can do it openly, directly, without bending. There need
                            be no subtlety, no indirectness. With a woman it’s not so; she can take
                            no love that is not laid openly, simply, at her feet. Nature ordains
                            that she should never show what she feels; the woman who had told a man
                            she loved him would have put between them a barrier once and for ever
                            that could not be crossed; and if she subtly drew him towards her, using
                            the woman’s means—silence, finesse, the dropped handkerchief, the
                            surprise visit, the gentle assertion she had not thought to see him when
                            she had come a long way to meet him, then she would be damned; she would
                            hold the love, but she would have desecrated it by subtlety; it would
                            have no value. Therefore she must always go with her arms folded
                            sexually; only the love which lays itself down at her feet and implores
                            of her to accept it is love she can ever rightly take up. That is the
                            true difference between a man and a woman. You may seek for love because
                            you can do it openly; we cannot because we must do it subtly. A woman
                            should always walk with her arms folded. Of course friendship is
                            different. You are on a perfect equality with man then; you can ask him
                            to come and see you as I asked you. That’s the beauty of the intellect and intellectual life to a
                            woman, that she drops her shackles a little; and that is why she shrinks
                            from sex so. If she were dying perhaps, or doing something equal to
                            death, she might .... Death means so much more to a woman than a man;
                            when you knew you were dying, to look round on the world and feel the
                            bond of sex that has broken and crushed you all your life gone, nothing
                            but the human left, no woman any more, to meet everything on perfectly
                            even ground. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t go to America and look
                            for a wife perfectly deliberately. You will have to tell no lies. Look
                            till you find a woman that you absolutely love, that you have not the
                            smallest doubt suits you apart from love, and then ask her to marry you.
                            You must have children; the life of an old childless man is very
                            sad.”
                        “Yes, I should like to have children. I often feel now, what is it all
                            for, this work, this striving, and’no one to leave it to? It’s a blank,
                            suppose I succeed ...?”
                        “Suppose you get your title?”
                        “Yes; what is it all worth to me if I’ve no one to leave it to? That’s my
                            feeling. It’s really very strange to be sitting and talking like this to
                            you. But you are so different from other women. If all women were like
                            you, all your theories of the equality of men and women would work.
                            You’re the only woman with whom I never realise that she is a
                            woman.”
                        
                        “Yes,” she said.
                        She stood looking down into the fire.
                        “How long will you stay in India?”
                        “Oh, I’m not coming back.”
                        “Not coming back! That’s impossible. You will be breaking the hearts of
                            half the people here if you don’t. I never knew a woman who had such
                            power of entrapping men’s hearts as you have in spite of that philosophy
                            of yours. I don’t know,” he smiled, “that I should not have fallen into
                            the snare myself—three years ago I almost thought I should—if you hadn’t
                            always attacked me so incontinently and persistently on all and every
                            point and on each and every occasion. A man doesn’t like pain. A
                            succession of slaps damps him. But it doesn’t seem to have that effect
                            on other men .... There was that fellow down in the country when I was
                            there last year, perfectly ridiculous. You know his name...” He moved
                            his fingers to try and remember it—“big, yellow moustache, a major, gone
                            to the east coast of Africa now; the ladies unearthed it that he was
                            always carrying about a photograph of yours in his pocket; and he used
                            to take out little scraps of things you printed and show them to people
                            mysteriously. He almost had a duel with a man one night after dinner
                            because he mentioned you; he seemed to think there was something
                            incongruous between your name and—”
                        
                        “I do not like to talk of any man who has loved me,” she said. “However
                            small and poor his nature may be, he has given me his best. There is
                            nothing ridiculous in love. I think a woman should feel that all the
                            love men have given her which she has not been able to return is a kind
                            of crown set up above her which she is always trying to grow tall enough
                            to wear. I can’t bear to think that all the love that has been given me
                            has been wasted on something unworthy of it. Men have been very
                            beautiful and greatly honoured me. I am grateful to them. If a man tells
                            you he loves you,” she said, looking into the fire, “with his breast
                            uncovered before you for you to strike him if you will, the least you
                            can do is to put out your hand and cover it up from other people’s eyes.
                            If I were a deer,” she said, “and a stag got hurt following me, even
                            though I could not have him for a companion, I would stand still and
                            scrape the sand with my foot over the place where his blood had fallen;
                            the rest of the herd should never know he had been hurt there following
                            me. I would cover the blood up, if I were a deer,” she said, and then
                            she was silent.
                        Presently she sat down in her chair and said, with her hand before her:
                            “Yet, you know, I have not the ordinary feeling about love. I think the
                            one who is loved confers the benefit on the one who loves, it’s been so
                            great and beautiful that it should be loved. I think the man should be grateful to the
                            woman or the woman to the man whom they have been able to love, whether
                            they have been loved back or whether circumstances have divided them or
                            not.” She stroked her knee softly with her hand.
                        “Well, really, I must go now.” He pulled out his watch. “It’s so
                            fascinating sitting here talking that I could stay all night, but I’ve
                            still two engagements.” He rose; she rose also and stood before him
                            looking up at him for a moment.
                        “How well you look! I think you have found the secret of perpetual youth.
                            You don’t look a day older than when I first saw you just four years
                            ago. You always look as if you were on fire and being burnt up, but you
                            never are, you know.”
                        He looked down at her with a kind of amused face as one does at an
                            interesting child or a big Newfoundland dog.
                        “When shall we see you back?”
                        “Oh, not at all!”
                        “Not at all! Oh, we must have you back; you belong here, you know. You’ll
                            get tired of your Buddhist and come back to us.”
                        “You didn’t mind my asking you to come and say good?bye?” she said in a
                            childish manner unlike her determinateness when she discussed anything
                            impersonal. “I wanted to say good?bye to everyone. If one hasn’t said
                            good?bye one feels restless and feels
                            one would have to come back. If one has said goodbye to all one’s
                            friends, then one knows it is all ended.”
                        “Oh, this isn’t a final farewell! You must come in ten years’ time and
                            we’ll compare notes—you about your Buddhist Priest, I about my fair
                            ideal American; and we’ll see who succeeded best.”
                        She laughed.
                        “I shall always see your movements chronicled in the newspapers, so we
                            shall not be quite sundered; and you will hear of me perhaps.”
                        “Yes, I hope you will be very successful.”
                        She was looking at him, with her eyes wide open, from head to foot. He
                            turned to the chair where his coat hung.
                        “Can’t I help you put it on?”
                        “Oh, no, thank you.”
                        He put it on.
                        “Button the throat,” she said, “the room is warm.”
                        He turned to her in his great?coat and with his gloves. They were
                            standing near the door.
                        “Well, good?bye. I hope you will have a very pleasant time.”
                        He stood looking down upon her, wrapped in his great?coat.
                        She put up one hand a little in the air. “I want to ask you something,”
                            she said quickly.
                        
                        “Well, what is it?”
                        “Will you please kiss me?”
                        For a moment he looked down at her, then he bent over her.
                        In after years he could never tell certainly, but he always thought she
                            put up her hand and rested it on the crown of his head, with a curious
                            soft caress, something like a mother’s touch when her child is asleep
                            and she does not want to wake it. Then he looked round, and she was
                            gone. The door had closed noiselessly. For a moment he stood motionless,
                            then he walked to the fireplace and looked down into the fender at a
                            little cigarette end lying there, then he walked quickly back to the
                            door and opened it. The stairs were in darkness and silence. He rang the
                            bell violently. The old woman came up. He asked her where the lady was.
                            She said she had gone out, she had a cab waiting. He asked when she
                            would be back. The old woman said, “Not at all”; she had left. He asked
                            where she had gone. The woman said she did not know; she had left orders
                            that all her letters should be kept for six or eight months till she
                            wrote and sent her address. He asked whether she had no idea where he
                            might find her. The woman said no. He walked up to a space in the wall
                            where a picture had hung and stood staring at it as though the picture
                            were still hanging there. He drew his mouth as though he were emitting a
                            long whistle, but no sound came. He
                            gave the old woman ten shillings and went downstairs.
                        That was eight years ago.
                        How beautiful life must have been to it that it looks so young still!
                    
                    
                    
                        On the Banks of a Full River
                        
                        ON THE BANKS OF A FULL RIVER
                        IT was in the year 18—, the year of the great rains.
                        I, a young girl of sixteen, was going home from the South where I had
                            been at school.
                        We travelled in a Cobb & Co.’s coach, nine passengers inside and
                            four out; and all day and night it rained. We did in two days the
                            journey we should have done in one; and when they changed horses they
                            gave us no time to sleep. Night and day we travelled. On the evening of
                            the ninth day we stopped on the banks of a full river. The greasy,
                            coffee?coloured water flowed level with the banks, and the heads of
                            half?drowned willow trees showed themselves on either side. We should
                            not be able to cross that night, it might be not for days.
                        We looked out through the pouring rain. Beside us was a little mud house,
                            the only habitation within thirty miles. It was square, with a divided
                            door and one small window. The man to whom it belonged came out to meet
                            us; he lived there alone and sold liquor to the passers?by. It was
                            arranged between him and the driver we should stay there for the
                                night. We alighted from the coach
                            and streamed into the house; we found it consisted of one small room. I
                            and the woman who was my only female travelling companion stood before
                            the fire drying our clothes which had got damp in the passage from the
                            coach to the house; the men stood round the table drinking bad brandy
                            and whisky in cups and glasses, while the driver went out to see to his
                            horses. There was nothing to be had to eat but some stale biscuits from
                            a tin and some leathery roaster?cake. Some one brought up the one chair
                            the room contained and an empty soap box, and the woman and I sat down
                            before the fire. By and by the driver came in, and the night darkened
                            down quickly. The men still stood smoking and drinking round the table.
                            The rain was falling less heavily. After a while the men conferred
                            together and they decided, with that gentleness which rough men
                            travelling alone with women always show, that they should all find
                            shelter in the coach and the hut be left to us alone. The owner put the
                            large stump of an uprooted willow tree upon the fire and in half an hour
                            the men stumbled out; we could hear them swearing and grumbling in the
                            rain on the way to the coach; and for an hour we caught broken peals of
                            ribald laughter or obscene songs through the sound of the falling rain;
                            then gradually all became quiet.
                        The room in which they left us had a bare mud floor on which was only a white sheepskin
                            that lay before the fire; on the brown mud wall there was a rack with
                            two guns and a pistol, and in the centre of the room stood the table
                            with empty bottles and glasses, and in the corner was a stretcher with
                            one band broken and a thin mattress and three dirty blankets. There was
                            no place in which one might lie down. The firelight flickered over the
                            walls; the three inches of tallow candle they had left in a black bottle
                            on the table had burnt itself out.
                        I grew tired of sitting on the soap box and slipped down and crouched on
                            the white sheepskin before the fire. The woman sat in the chair on the
                            right, her head so far back that the firelight did not shine on it. One
                            could hardly tell whether she was awake or asleep.
                        She was a tall, slight woman dressed in black, and might have been any
                            age between thirty and forty?five. She had been very kind to me all the
                            way; in the night when, without my knowing it, I grew sleepy and my head
                            dropped, she laid it on her shoulder and I woke with it there in the
                            morning. When it was cold she made me put on her great fur cloak, such
                            as women from England have, and we talked of the scenery we passed
                            through and of books, and we were friends, though neither of us had
                            asked any question or knew anything of the other.
                        The rain still fell heavily, and far off one could hear the rush of the river. I stared into the
                            fire till the blaze from the glowing coals almost scorched my
                            eyelashes.
                        Suddenly I turned to my companion.
                        “Life is very wicked; it is very unjust,” I said.
                        I raised myself on my knees.
                        She looked down at me and leaned forward. She had seemed almost asleep.
                            She did not speak.
                        “It is very cruel; it is very unjust!” I said. “It is no use trying! Some
                            people have everything and some people have nothing; and things are not
                            as they should be!”
                        She put out her hand and I felt it on my head for a moment. Then she drew
                            it back.
                        I was young, and I was suffering my first surprise at my first shattered
                            ideal.
                        The woman raised herself and looked down at me. I laid my clenched fists
                            upon my knees.
                        “I have found no balancing interrelation between the material and mental
                            world,” she said. “If you go with love in your heart to fetch a cup of
                            water for your friend, there is no relation between the intensity of the
                            love and the cup’s fracture; if that is what you mean by justice in
                            life, then there is none. But, in the emotional and intellectual
                            spheres, human nature has a deep power of working out compensations;
                            what is taken from us on the one hand works itself back to us on the
                            other. There is nothing mysterious in
                            this, just as there is nothing mysterious in one scale of a balance
                            going down and another up when you move matter from one to the other,
                            though it might seem so to a little baby. There are times, thinking over
                            life,” she said, “I have almost seemed to see the terms in which this
                            balancing process might be stated so as to be clearly grasped
                            intellectually. I think it is there.”
                        I sat looking into the fire. My heart was very bitter. I had had my first
                            ideal shattered, my great plan for what was beautiful broken. I was
                            beating my wings against the bars of the inevitable in life as young
                            things do, battering the wings but not hurting the bars.
                        “Yes, but you do not know,” I said. And after a while I told her my
                            story. It was a long story, and seemed to me then the only one in the
                            world. There is no need I should repeat it fully:
                        Three years before I had gone to school on a farm in the South; it was a
                            mixed school where boys and girls were taught together. There was one
                            boy three years older than I. He and I were always at the head of the
                            school. He worked hard at first to get up to me because he could not
                            bear a girl should stand higher; but afterwards we became great
                            friends.
                        (Note by S.C.C.S.—There is evidently a page or so missing here; the
                            narrative would introduce the other girl and begin the delineation of
                            her character in her attitude towards the lad; the delineation is, however, clear enough in the passages
                            immediately following. Apparently they had been having, were having,
                            school holidays when the tale continues.)
                        ... taught him to make flutes of reeds; sometimes she sat in the fork of
                            the apple trees and he lay below and she threw down fruit to him;
                            sometimes she brought her books to him and asked him questions, and she
                            said he was so wonderful when he could explain; and the one thing he had
                            never needed was praise. Then the holidays came to an end. We had
                            brought much work to do that he might pass the last examination; but,
                            when I came to look for him, he was walking laughing with her, and I hid
                            the books under my arm. The last day of the holidays she came to me and
                            said he was not going back to school. Her father had offered him £20 a
                            month to oversee the wine farming. They could have got anyone else for
                            five, she said, but her father had done it because she asked him. “All
                            this is mine,” she said. “There is no one else to inherit it; my father
                            lets me do what I like with it and I want him to have it.” I talked with
                            him once. He seemed a little sorry, but he could not refuse £20. I did
                            not go back to school for the next quarter; I came straight home; I was
                            on my journey up. I sat beside the fire and told the story.
                        “You see,” I said, when I had finished it, “he is lost, his beautiful
                            possibilities are dead; she will drag
                            him down, down. It would have been better if she had killed him!” And I
                            laid my clenched hands on my knees. It would have been easy for me to
                            have killed myself, I so hated that girl as I stood there.
                        The woman said: “Are you quite just? Are you sure it is she who has
                            dragged him down?”
                        “I hate her, oh, I hate her so!” I said. “I would have forgiven her if
                            she had killed him, but not for this.”
                        (Note by S.C.C.S.—A gap occurs here.)
                        “... study more. You see,” I said, “I don’t mind that he hates me, but I
                            mind that he will never do anything more; he will marry and settle down.
                            She has killed him. It is as if she were a soft greasy snake, and she
                            had crept over him, and put her tooth into his body and the poison has
                            crept in and in and he is dead, he is asleep for ever.”
                        She said: “Can other people ever poison us?”
                        I said: “They can! But I could wake him. That is the terrible thing. If I
                            could tell him what she was, if I could have had one half?hour’s talk
                            with him (and he had sought it), I could make him fling her off as a man
                            flings off a toad when he wakes and sees it sitting on him. That’s the
                            terrible thing! That’s why I’ve asked my friends to get me home at once
                            because I dare not stay there. If once I were to talk against her to him, then my soul would
                            be lost, as hers is now. You see I can’t,” I said. “I must go away where
                            I can never see him any more and leave him to her!”
                        I looked up, but the woman was sitting motionless on the chair and the
                            firelight was dancing on the guns in the rack.
                        “You see,” I said, “people say she is a clever woman; she is strong; they
                            say she can have every?thing; it’s the poor, weak, gentle, little women
                            that need looking after, that must be taken care of. It’s a lie; it’s we
                            that are weak! If the snake once thinks it wrong to use its poison fangs
                            and begins to develop feet, and makes a noise with them as it comes on,
                            is it stronger? It’s higher, of course, higher! What is that
                                higher? It is weakness. Is there anything so strong as
                            the snake when it creeps on noiselessly with its fangs and its silent
                            glide? The horse, the elephant, the lion, are nothing to it. Take this
                            from it and what has it left? It has not the speed, the claws, the thick
                            skin of the others! A snake without its poison bag, who gives notice
                            when it is coming,” I laughed,—“every creature can put his foot on its
                            head and crush out its poor unused poison bag that it has never used. It
                            will never be a lion or an elephant for all its feet. A woman with
                            intellect and strength and the ideal of acting strictly by other
                            women—haugh! She is dirt beneath everyone’s feet. There is nothing so weak on the earth. She will never
                            be a man! Life gave women subtlety and lying and meanness and flattery
                            that they might defend themselves. They have all things if they will use
                            their tools.”
                        We were silent for a moment; then she said: “Do you think any strong,
                            intellectual woman ever really wanted to be a weak one? Is it not better
                            to have half?developed hands and feet, and be trodden on? Does it matter
                            so much what one has as what one is?”
                        And she said after a time: “Does one really ever gain anything by
                            subtlety? Is it not seeming?”
                        I said: “Oh, it is such a terrible thing to be a woman. You can do
                            nothing for those you love. You must wait, crush out, kill, in yourself.
                            The old passive women who took indirect means, they are happy.”
                        She said: “Do you think so?”
                        Then she said after a time: “I knew two women in England; one was older,
                            and the younger lived with her; she was her cousin. The younger was what
                            the world calls a strong, intellectual woman; she painted. The other was
                            what the world calls a gentle, womanly woman; she had married, when she
                            was young, a rich man, and had three children. She had a very beautiful
                            home, and she always pictured herself to herself as the central image in
                            it, the most beautiful of all. The younger woman knew an artist who
                            worked at the same studio; she loved him as only people can love who love the work and the
                            objects of others, not only their persons. Every day she went to his
                            studio and criticised his work; when he was satisfied, she was not; she
                            wanted something better; she had a greater dream for his future than she
                            ever told him. They were very near to each other. She never spoke of
                            love to him: what need is there to talk of love to a man, when he knows
                            his work is more to you than your own; and you love your own?”
                        “And then?” I said.
                        “After two years he came to the house where she lived with her older
                            cousin. At first the woman took little notice of him; then she used to
                            have glasses of jelly ready for him when he came, and let him lie on the
                            sofa in her great room in the garden. He took her to his studio: she
                            stood still a long time before one picture, and said, ‘Oh, please don’t
                            speak to me; it makes me feel like a beautiful summer’s day to look at
                            it’; and the young woman had told him to burn it; it was unworthy of
                            him. She said she wanted her picture painted with her little baby, and
                            he painted her as a madonna with her child in her arms with their cheeks
                            touching. I do not think he cared for her then. He simply painted her.
                            She gave the picture to her husband, and asked the young man to come to
                            her house oftener.”
                        “And then?”
                        “Then one day she talked of him to the younger woman. I do not say she told the younger
                            woman she loved him; that would have been wrong in a married woman; but
                            she knew the nature of the younger woman; she spoke so that she implied
                            that she liked him. When she wanted to go for a drive she did not say to
                            the younger woman, ‘You stay at home. I want to go this afternoon.’ She
                            said, ‘You go, dear, I don’t mind staying at all; I’m sure you’ll enjoy
                            it more than I do’; and then the younger woman stayed. And that night it
                            was moonlight and the younger woman was walking in agony on a terrace
                            that ran beside the house. It was terrible another woman should love the
                            man she loved; in a moment all the lovely beauty was gone ...”
                        I said, “I hate that woman!”
                        ... “and then the older woman and the man came out and stood under a
                            great tree to hear the nightingales sing, and she talked of the younger
                            woman, and the young man said, ‘Yes, she is too restlessly energetic,’
                            and so they talked. The elder knew that the younger was there, and the
                            younger knew she knew it. Then she went into the house. You see her love
                            was broken. She thought what was best to be done. You can’t cope with
                            such women, you can’t touch them, you must leave them. The day you touch
                            them you sink to their level; you don’t only lose your love, you degrade
                            it: it was white as far as she was concerned. So she thought the thing
                                out; and that night she packed her
                            things; the next day she left. She did not say good?bye to the man. She
                            came out to Africa; for many years she lived here. After a while, seven
                            or eight years, she married a man who was dying of consumption and took
                            care of his two children when he was dead. She had a happy life. It was
                            nice to take care of the children. She had plenty to do.”
                        The woman sat still.
                        “And the other woman?” I asked.
                        “She lived on in her beautiful house with her husband and children and
                            was very happy. The young artist never understood why his friend left;
                            he came often to the house; and lay on the great sofa, and the woman
                            gave him jelly and soups to strengthen him for his work. He never worked
                            much, but he always came to see her; they were very intimate friends
                            till her husband died,”
                        (Note by S.C.C.S.—The page numbered 16 by Olive ends here; what follows
                            is on page numbered 18.)
                        “... Need you envy a man for holding dust in his hand? What is the use of
                            possessing a man if you hold him and possess him through flattery? Is a
                            man worth having who desires it?”
                        I said, “Yes, but she had what she desired. When her husband died she
                            could have him always with her; the last little restraint was gone; she
                            could wait on him and help him. That is
                            what we women want when we love a man.”
                        She sat still, twirling the ...
                        
                            (Note by S.C.C.S.—Here ends page 18. What follows is on page numbered 20
                            by Olive.)
                        I said, “What?”
                        She said, “Pity her, she married him.”
                        We sat still in the firelight.
                        I said at last: “Did those two women ever meet again?”
                        She said: “Yes, once, after years. The elder woman came out to South
                            Africa and they met once.”
                        I sat looking into the fire.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Wax Doll and the Stepmother
                        
                        THE WAX DOLL AND THE STEPMOTHER
                        ROLLY was a small boy five years old who wore knickerbockers. He
                            had great brown eyes and curls that hung over his forehead; but Nina,
                            his sister, who was a year older, had yellow hair and a white face. She
                            was so thin that when Rolly tried hard he could lift her off the
                            ground.
                        They had no mother, but their Papa was kind to them, and one day when he
                            came from town he brought a beautiful wax doll for Nina. She had many
                            dolls, but none like this one. Its hair was real; you could curl and
                            comb it as much as you pleased; it had real eyelashes, and fingers and
                            toes of wax, and the best of all was it had little teeth. You could see
                            them always, for its mouth was never shut.
                        Nurse Bromage, who looked after the children, said it was quite too good
                            to play with, and put the doll away on the top shelf. Nina cried; she
                            loved the doll so much, with its little teeth. But Nurse Bromage did not
                            care; for, you see, she was a cross old thing and didn’t mind if other
                            people weren’t happy, if only she was.
                            But sometimes she went to visit her cousin in the country, and then
                            Jennie the housemaid used to let them play with it as much as they
                            pleased. One day when they were playing with her one of the tucks in the
                            doll’s flannel petticoat got loosened. Nina kissed her and Rolly told
                            her they didn’t mean to do it; and so they thought it was all right.
                        A little time after that Nurse Bromage told them that when their Papa
                            came home the next day he was going to bring them a new Mamma. The
                            children clapped their hands when they heard that.
                        “Then we will have a Mamma too!” they said, “like the other
                            children!”
                        “Yes,” said Nina. “Perhaps she will come and kiss us when we are in bed,
                            like the pretty lady kisses the little girl in the picture in Papa’s
                            bedroom!”
                        But Nurse Bromage knit up her forehead and shook her head.
                        “All the house will belong to your new Mamma,” she said, “and all the
                            things in it. She will not like you at all, because if it were not for
                            you she would get all your Papa’s things when he dies; but now you will
                            have to get some.”
                        Then Nina and Rolly were quite unhappy. They went and sat on a little box
                            behind the door where they always sat when Nurse Bromage scolded
                            them.
                        
                        “We’ll tell the new Mamma that we don’t want any of Papa’s things,” said
                            Nina. “Won’t we, Rolly?”
                        “We’ll tell her just as soon as she comes,” said Rolly. “But perhaps she
                            looks like Nurse Bromage!”
                        “Oh dear!” said Nina, and hung her head. Her neck was so thin that when
                            she hung it, it always seemed as though it might break off.
                        The next day when the carriage came the servants and the two children
                            went into the great hall to meet their Papa and the lady. Nina had on a
                            white dress with a blue sash; and Rolly had a black velvet suit with
                            three pockets, one in the jacket and two in the trousers.
                        “I think she’ll think I’m quite a big boy, when she sees me in this,”
                            said Rolly.
                        When the carriage stopped their Papa helped out the lady. She was very
                            beautiful; tall, with red cheeks, and lips like cherries, and black hair
                            shining like a crow’s wing. She had on a silk dress with a black
                            rustling train, and that made her grander still. She was very beautiful,
                            but she had not a happy face. No one had ever taught her that it was not
                            money and fine houses and fine clothes that could make a person happy;
                            and so her heart felt all over as though it were pricked by little pins.
                            So the hearts of all people feel, when they want more than they have got
                            and are not full of love.
                        
                        “She isn’t like Nurse Bromage. She’s just like your best wax?doll,” Rolly
                            whispered; but Nina was so afraid she did not lift her face.
                        When their new Mamma came into the hall, “These are my little children,”
                            the Papa said. But she did not look at them; she only bent down and
                            touched Rolly’s forehead with her lips. Nina she did not kiss at
                            all.
                        “Rolly, I can’t tell her she can have all Papa’s things! Oh! I am so
                            afraid of her,” said Nina, when they went up the long stairs holding
                            each other’s hands.
                        “I’m not frightened,” said Rolly, “I’m a
                                man and you are only a woman, you know. But I don’t
                            like her. Why didn’t she kiss you?”
                        “Oh, Rolly, I love her!” said Nina, with tears in her eyes.
                        That evening Nurse Bromage brought them to sit in the parlour for a
                            little while. Their Papa gave them some nuts to crack, but the beautiful
                            lady never spoke to them; she sat with her screen before the fire.
                        
                        “You see, Nina,” said Rolly, when they were lying in their little beds in
                            the dark, “it is quite true; she does hate us. And I don’t love her; not
                            a bit. I’d like to take my big drum and beat it at her bedroom door when
                            she’s asleep!”
                         “Oh, you mustn’t say so, Rolly!” said Nina.
                        But Rolly didn’t care, and soon went to sleep and so did she. But the
                            cough soon woke her up again, and she lay alone in the dark, and a
                            beautiful thought came to her. She wished it would be morning soon that
                            she might tell Rolly. She folded her little hands together, and pressed
                            the palms. For all that she couldn’t tell him when the morning came, for
                            Nurse Bromage was by, and no one could say anything nice while
                                she was there. After breakfast she taught them their
                            letters. When Nina called B, D, she whipped her hands with a little rod
                            tied with a red string; but she didn’t whip Rolly because he was her
                            favourite.
                        By and by, when it was afternoon, Nurse Bromage went to sleep on the
                            sofa. Then Nina called Rolly behind the door.
                        “What is it?” said Rolly, coming close and lifting his ear.
                        “You know my wax doll, Rolly; my best wax doll?” said Nina.
                        “Yes,” said Rolly.
                        “I want to give it to her, Rolly. Do you think she’ll like it?”
                        “Who?”
                        “Our new Mamma.”
                        “Oh, yes!” said Rolly, “of course she will. I don’t believe she ever saw
                            one like it in her life before!”
                        
                        “And you’ll take it to her, Rolly? You are not afraid, are you?”
                        “I should think not,” said Rolly, sticking his hands into his
                            knickerbocker pockets, and swelling himself out. “I’ll take it.”
                        “Let us go and fetch it before Nurse wakes,” said Nina. But Rolly paused,
                            shaking his head and looking very sagacious.
                        “She’ll find out and she’ll whip you, Nina!”
                        “It doesn’t matter,” said Nina, a little sorrowfully. “You know she will
                            whatever I do.”
                        So they went to the next room. Rolly pulled the chair, and Nina put the
                            footstool on; and he climbed up, while she held fast. When he had got
                            the doll he came down quickly; and they took a beautiful piece of white
                            paper with a silver edge, that came with the china tea?service, to wrap
                            it in.
                        “Isn’t she lovely?” said Nina, as she laid it in the paper and smoothed
                            out the little soft curls.
                        “She just is!” said Rolly. “Aren’t you sorry to give her away?”
                        “No,” said Nina; but when she looked at the little teeth her lip
                            trembled. She gave it to Rolly to hold while she went for a piece of
                            string. They neither of them knew how to tie a bow; but Rolly said he
                            didn’t think it mattered, because their new Mamma could untie a knot by
                            herself, he guessed.
                        “You must tell her I’m sorry the one tuck is out,” said Nina, “and I would have mended it only I
                            don’t know how to work.”
                        Rolly put the doll under his arm, and Nina went with him to the door of
                            the long passage.
                        “You are not afraid, are you?”
                        “Oh, no!” said Rolly; but his heart beat so that the doll against his
                            breast went up and down, up and down.
                        He walked up the long passage to the door of the new Mamma’s bedroom. He
                            gave a little knock with his forefinger, but no one answered. He thought
                            there could be no one inside, so gave a very brave one with his
                            fist.
                        The new Mamma said, “Who is there?”
                        “I,” said Rolly; and he pushed open the door, and walked in.
                        It was almost dinner?time, and there were going to be visitors that
                            evening. The lady was sitting before the glass dressing. She had on a
                            black velvet dress, and the sleeves were wide open to show her arms, as
                            white as the snow, and covered with bracelets.
                        Rolly walked in and stood before her looking at her.
                        “What do you want?” she asked.
                        He was such a wee boy when he stood so close beside her, and she was a
                            grand, beautiful woman.
                        “I’ve brought this for you,” said Rolly, “and you may keep it for your
                            own. It’s Nina sends it to you.”
                        
                        He put the parcel down in her lap, and folded his hands behind him.
                        “And who is Nina?” asked the lady.
                        “Why, Nina is Nina, to be sure! My sister,” said Rolly. “And
                            she says you mustn’t mind the one tuck being out, because she would have
                            mended it if she could.”
                        The lady unrolled the parcel and looked at the doll.
                        “You see,” he said, picking up the doll’s dress and showing the
                            petticoat, “that’s the tuck; but it’s all that’s the matter with her.
                            Isn’t it lovely?” said Rolly, sticking his hands in his pockets and
                            watching to see what effect it would have upon her.
                        “You didn’t notice the teeth, I suppose, did you?” said Rolly, eyeing her
                            critically. “It’s real teeth, and the hair too. You can put oil on if
                            you like.”
                        “Who told Nina to send it?” asked the lady.
                        “Why, no one,” said Rolly; “she thought of it last night when she was in
                            bed.”
                        “What made her want to send it to me?”
                        “Well,” said Rolly, drawing confidentially nearer, “you mustn’t tell, of
                            course; but Nina, she said if she gave it you, perhaps you’d kiss her,
                            like the lady in the picture kisses the little girl, you know, when
                            she’s in bed.”
                        The lady looked down at the doll. “Go and tell Nina, that I say ‘thank
                            you.’”
                        
                        “It’s a beautiful doll,” said Rolly, fearing she had not enough admired
                            it, “and the boots are red. Good?bye!”
                        When he got to the door he looked back. “I’ll tell her you don’t mind
                            about the petticoat, eh?”
                        “Yes,” said the lady, so Rolly went.
                        That evening the children sat on their hassocks before the fire. Nurse
                            Bromage had taken the light out and gone downstairs to get some of the
                            nice things that were over from the big people’s dinner; so they drew
                            their little hassocks as close together as they could and sat looking at
                            the fire.
                        “She said ‘thank you,’” said Rolly; “she must have liked it!”
                        “Oh no, I think she’s angry,” said Nina.
                        Rolly could see two large tears on her face, so he rubbed her cheeks with
                            his coat sleeve. It was rather rough, but it did her good.
                        “I don’t believe she could be so bad as not to like your doll,” he said;
                            and they sat still looking at the fire.
                        Then the door opened softly.
                        “There she comes!” said Rolly, looking round—“I knew she would.”
                        But the little girl sat quite huddled up with fear, and quite cold. The
                            lady came in; you could see in the firelight how beautiful she was, with
                            her diamonds sparkling, and her velvet dress and her black hair.
                        
                        “This is Nina!” said Rolly. “Here she sits!”
                        The lady did not speak. She brought the rocking?chair from the corner and
                            put it before the fire and sat down.
                        “Come!” she said; and she lifted the little girl up with her strong white
                            hands and sat her on her knee. She held the thin little face fast and
                            kissed the mouth six times, very softly.
                        “My dear little daughter,” she said, and laid the head down on her
                            breast.
                        Rolly, on his hassock before the fire, stroked his little knees for
                            gladness, and his round eyes were just as bright as the coals.
                        The new Mamma called him to come and stand at her side. She put her arm
                            quite tight round him.
                        “You are just like the wax doll, and much prettier too,” he said, looking
                            up at her. “Nina and I, we like you very much. But I didn’t like you
                            first.”
                        “Why not?”
                        “Because—a—because—a—because—you didn’t kiss her. But I like you now,” he
                            said, edging suddenly nearer to her, and taking hold of her face with
                            one hand to turn it to him. “And you know, New Mamma, we didn’t want
                                any of Papa’s things. You can have them all.
                                I’ll take care of Nina,” he added, drawing himself up;
                            “I’m nearly a big man already. I can climb into bed right from the
                            ground by myself, and button my clothes too!”
                        
                        “You dear little boy!” said the lady, and she kissed him on his eyes, and
                            on his forehead, and on the brown curls that hung down.
                        Then Rolly put his head down on her shoulder, and rubbed his curls softly
                            against her neck.
                        “It’s so nice and happy; just like a birthday! Isn’t it, Nina?” he
                            said.
                        But Nina only pressed the lady’s waist with all her little strength.
                        “And you won’t let Nurse Bromage s?col?d Nina for giving you her doll;
                            will you, my New Mamma?” said Rolly. “Poor Nina, you know!”
                        “No one shall hurt her now,” said the lady, “she is my little
                            daughter.”
                        “Yes; and I’ll be your big son too, if you like!” said Rolly, looking up,
                            “and take care of you!”
                        “So you shall, my darling.”
                        “Yes,” said Rolly, very much excited, “and—I—I’ll always get you—canary
                            seed—for your bird—and—I—I’ll build you a house of shells—and—and—”
                        “You shall do it all for me, just to?morrow,” said the lady. “Where are
                            your little beds? I shall carry Nina, and you shall show me. I want to
                            undress you both.”
                        “Will you kiss us when we have our nightgowns on?”
                        “Yes.”
                        Rolly put his mouth close to her ear.
                        
                        “Will you lie with us a little while?”
                        “Yes.”
                        “Close?”
                        “Yes.”
                        “Oh! it’s just like a birthday,” said Rolly—“only it’s much nicer!”
                    
                    
                    
                        The Adventures of Master Towser
                        
                        THE ADVENTURES OF MASTER TOWSER
                        
                            I—HIS SORROW
                            SMALL TOWSER sat with his tail in a puddle of mud. The
                                puddle was small, but so was his tail. His nose was turned down to
                                the paving?stones; there were two drops running down towards the tip
                                of it, but they weren’t raindrops, though the afternoon was sad and
                                cloudy enough—they came from his eyes. Presently, out of the swell
                                gate of the house over the way came a most respectable?looking dog,
                                of a very comfortable appearance, and as big as eight Towsers, for
                                he was a mastiff.
                            “Why don’t you take your tail out of the puddle?” asked the
                                comfortable?looking dog.
                            Towser gave it a feeble little splutter in the mud: he didn’t know
                                why he let it hang there, except that he was miserable.
                            “Starve you over at your house?” inquired the comfortable dog.
                            “No,” said Towser, “there are dishes of bones and nice little bits of
                                fat in the kitchen.”
                            “Other dogs bite you?”
                            “No.” Towser shook his head.
                            
                            “Have to sleep out in the cold?”
                            “No, I’ve got a house,” said Towser.
                            “You’re a nice gentlemanly?looking little dog; you oughtn’t to be
                                unhappy. What’s the matter?” asked the comfortable?looking dog.
                            “I’m not any good,” said Towser.
                            The big dog didn’t comprehend.
                            “I want someone to love me,” said Towser; “I want to help somebody; I
                                want to be of use.”
                            “Love!” said the big dog. “Did you ever smell it?”
                            “No,” said Towser.
                            “Or see anybody eat it?”
                            “No.”
                            “Or sleep on it?”
                            “No.”
                            “Then what use is it?” said the big dog; and he went away.
                            Shortly after that Towser got up off the stone, and took his little
                                tail out of the mud. He shook his little ears and let the two drops
                                run off his nose.
                            “I’ll go and seek for someone that needs me,” said Towser; and so he
                                started on his travels.
                        
                        
                            II—HIS SEARCH
                            “I must look as pleasant as I can,” said Towser, as he went down the
                                street; and he perked up his little ears. He really was a pretty
                                terrier, with long silky hair.
                                Presently he saw a boy walking on the pavement. He was ragged, he
                                looked as if he hadn’t had any dinner or breakfast either. Towser’s
                                heart ached for him. He looked very lonely.
                            “I’m sure he would like a nice little dog like me to be a companion
                                to him,” said Towser. “Yes, he wants me; I won’t trouble him for
                                food, because everyone gives me something when I go to the back
                                doors, because of my big eyes.”
                            So Towser began dancing a little dance of affection, shaking his ears
                                and looking from under them with his round eyes. This proceeding was
                                meant to say, “I want to love you.”
                            “Doggy, Doggy, Doggy!” said the little solitary boy, standing still
                                and holding out his fingers; “Doggy, Doggy, Doggy.”
                            So Towser came close up, just curling into a ball with excitement. He
                                didn’t know whether he should lick the little boy’s hands first or
                                his feet.
                            “There!” said the little boy. He gave Towser a powerful kick on the
                                tip of his black nose.
                            When he looked back, Towser was standing quite still, with a great
                                singing in his ears. Then the little lonely boy laughed.
                            When the singing had left off, Towser trotted away down the street.
                                He wasn’t so ready to caper now. He saw several little lonely boys
                                as he passed, but he didn’t think they wanted him.
                            
                            At last he got to the outskirts of the town. There was a bonny little
                                house with roses and creepers all round. He went to the back door
                                and put his fore?feet on the step, and looked in to see if there was
                                anybody wanted him. A lady lay on a sofa in one corner; she had not
                                walked for ten years, and her eyes were heavy with pain.
                            “Dear little creature, where do you come from?” she said.
                            Towser made a motion with his fore?feet, to explain that he would
                                come in if he were invited.
                            The lady said, “Come in,” and he sat down on the rug before her and
                                the lady felt his ears.
                            “Beautiful ears,” she said, “come!”
                            Towser jumped up on to the sofa beside her.
                            “I never saw such large eyes,” said the lady. “Dear little dog, if I
                                can I shall keep you for my own,” and she made a place for him on
                                her chest.
                            He lay with his paw close to her chin, and looked as loving as he
                                could. Presently he licked her chin, and she said he had a soft
                                little tongue. When her lunch came she fed him with brandy and egg
                                out of a spoon. He didn’t like it, it burnt his throat, but he drank
                                it.
                            “She wants me awfully, I can just see that,” said Towser, “and I’ll
                                stay with her as long as I live.”
                            The lady had him taken to her bedroom that night, and a nice little
                                rug laid for him across the foot of her bed. In the night, when she woke to cough, he walked up to
                                her face and licked it, and she covered him with the blankets till
                                there was just the tip of his black nose sticking out.
                            “The big, comfortable dog said love was nothing, but it’s something,”
                                said Towser, “and it’s nice ”; and he put his little muzzle against
                                her cheek. Next day he danced before her, and tried to catch his
                                tail when she looked sad.
                            “Oh, I’m a dear, nice, happy little dog; she does love me so. She
                                couldn’t live without me; I’m such a comfort to her,” said Towser.
                                He wished he’d been six months younger, then he’d have six months
                                more to live.
                            So weeks passed.
                            One afternoon a lady came in.
                            “I’ve brought Nola home,” she said, “so much better for her change to
                                the sea?side; here she is.” And the lady put down on the floor the
                                most snow?white terrier (Towser was brown), all soft with curls, and
                                with little sleepy eyes.
                            “She looks better,” said the lady—“dear Nola.”
                            Nola climbed quietly up on the sofa and curled herself up in a little
                                nest and shut her eyes.
                            Towser stood looking on. He thought he would jump on the sofa,
                                too.
                            “Down, Towser, down!” said the lady.
                            Then Towser went and got behind the crimson curtain, with only his nose and two
                                bright eyes peeping out. At last tea?time came, and there was a dish
                                of milk put down on the floor. Nola got off the sofa and went to
                                drink some; Towser came out, and put his little black muzzle in too.
                                As soon as the curly white one saw it, she lifted her pink nose, and
                                got quietly back on the sofa.
                            “Nola won’t drink with Towser,” said the lady; “take him to the
                                kitchen and give him a nice basin of milk with plenty of cream on
                                it.”
                            Then Nola got off the sofa again; but Towser wouldn’t go to the
                                kitchen. He got behind the curtain and looked out with his great
                                saucers of eyes.
                            “It’ll be bed?time soon, and I am sure she is wanting me badly to
                                lick her chin. I’m sure she is wishing it was bed?time,” said
                                Towser.
                            “Make a comfortable bed for Towser in the kitchen, and be sure it’s
                                nice and soft,” said the lady.
                            Towser wouldn’t get into the bed; he sat on the stone looking at the
                                fire. He wondered if a coal had got into his heart. He felt so
                                wicked.
                            “I wonder what is the matter with Towser,” said the lady the next
                                day; “he used to be such a nice little dog, always so lively.”
                            Then Towser got up, and began dancing about after his tail, and then
                                he got on the sofa, and began playing with the lady’s fingers and
                                rings. Then the white curly one
                                opened her eyes slowly and got oil the sofa.
                            “Nola, Nola, come here! Down, Towser, down!” said the lady.
                            Then Towser went out in the garden and sat in the gravelled path
                                looking up at the sun. I don’t know how he felt.
                            “Towser’s such a nice little dog” said the lady one day; “quite the
                                nicest little dog I’ve ever seen. I wish I could get someone to take
                                him away; some?one who would be kind to him.”
                            Now Towser, didn’t wait to be given away to a very kind person. I
                                fancy he had a pain at his heart. He put his tail close between his
                                hind legs, and went out at the back door.
                        
                        
                            III—HIS REWARD
                            Towser sat alone in a wood. He leaned his head on a stone at his
                                side. He was thinking; you could see that by his big, round
                                eyes.
                            “I made somebody happy, that’s a great comfort,” said he (for all
                                that there were tears running down his nose). “I must be happy; I
                                must think I once made somebody happy ”—here his little chest
                                swelled out immensely. “It doesn’t matter if you’re not loved if
                                only you’ve made somebody happy. Yes, I won’t want to be loved any
                                more, I’ll just try to help
                                people, and then I’ll be happy too. You mustn’t want to be loved;
                                just to be good.”
                            So he took his head off the stone and went trotting away through the
                                wood. Presently he saw a country boy before him carrying a flitch of
                                bacon; not long after from the bushes at the path?side burst a
                                gipsy?looking fellow.
                            After a minute, the rough fellow said to the boy, “Give me your
                                bacon.”
                            Said the boy, “No.”
                            The man said, “I can make you; there is nobody near.”
                            He took hold of the bacon; the boy began to struggle. He knelt upon
                                the boy. Then every hair upon Towser’s little body stood on end, and
                                his tail was stiffened out. He forgot he was Towser, he forgot he
                                wanted to be loved, he forgot everything, and flew at the trousers
                                of the gipsy man. Then the gipsy man thought there was someone
                                coming, ran away, and left the boy and the bacon.
                            Towser stood in the middle of the path barking furiously. He was in
                                great excitement.
                            Slowly the country fellow got up; his face was purple with rage. He
                                cut a little stick from the bush growing by; it wasn’t thicker than
                                his finger; Towser’s backbone was not thicker either.
                            “So, you stand here barking at me, do you?” said the country fellow.
                                “Why don’t you go after your
                                master? You want to bite me! do you? do you? do you?”
                            Towser thought his little backbone would be broken, and when the
                                stick hit his little skull it was terribly sore. The country fellow
                                held him fast with one hand; he was so small he wasn’t much to hold,
                                and beat him on his little fore?feet, and in his eye; then he took
                                up his bacon, and walked away.
                            Towser went into the brushwood close by, and sat down on his tail and
                                lifted his nose to the sky. The one eye was shut up, but the other
                                was wide open, and the water running out of it.
                            If he ever went home and became a comfortable, respectable dog, I
                                don’t know; the last I saw of him he was sitting there in that
                                wood.
                        
                        
                            Eastbourne, March 1882.
                        
                    
                        
                
            
            
                
                    
                    
                    DREAMS AND ALLEGORIES
                    
                    
                        A SOUL’S JOURNEY—TWO VISIONS
                        
                            
                                “There is no light in earth or heaven,
                                But the cold white light of stars.”
                            
                        
                        A SOUL was born down in the deep and dark where all souls are,
                            in a cavern under the earth. And it crept along the floor, and it saw a
                            glow?worm and it went after it. And when it got to the door of the cave
                            it put out its hand to take it; and the glow?worm crept into a little
                            hole in the ground; and the soul sat down in the dark, at the door of
                            the cavern, and cried.
                        And after a while it looked up, and over its head in the darkness it saw
                            a light moving; and it got up and walked after it. And the light went
                            on, and on, and on, and at last the soul caught it. And it sat down on
                            the ground, and parted its finger and thumb to see what it had got. And
                            there was a little damp matter on its finger?tips; because it was a
                            firefly, and it had crushed it.
                        And the soul sat on the ground, and screamed and flung itself on the
                            ground, and all was dark, and the soul was young. And after a while it
                            looked up, and, in the dark on the heights above, it saw a light that
                            burnt bright and clear. It began to climb. This light did not move. When the soul came
                            to it, it found a house of pure gold, with windows of crystal, and
                            through them the fierce, iridescent light burst; for the house was full
                            of fire. And the soul walked round and round it. And it said, “This is
                            light; this is warmth. How dark it all is elsewhere!” And it went round
                            the house tyrol?leer?ing; tyrol?leer?ing; tyrol?leer?ing! And it went
                            round the house and it sang. And it said, “Oh, I wish the door would
                            open, that I might go in!” And at last it went to the door and knocked
                            softly: and the door opened and it went in. And the door was shut behind
                            it. And the fire burnt inside.
                        And afterwards the soul came out of that house of fire, with its arms
                            above its head. And it went and lay down in the dark. And there was an
                            odour as of burnt flesh: but the soul was quiet.
                        And at last the soul looked up. And above it on the height it saw a light
                            burning, still, without flickering. And the soul stood up and began to
                            climb. And it got to the top of the height at last and it came to the
                            light. And the light was a tallow candle in a tin lamp and behind it was
                            a reflector and on the lamp was written “Fame.” And the soul looked at
                            the lamp. And it went a long way off; and sat upon a rock, with its
                            elbows on its knees. And after a while it looked up, and it saw a light
                            burning on the height above its head. Then again it rose up and climbed. And when it had got to the top
                            of the hill, the last range, it found the light burning. It was a great
                            fire of logs, laid across and across; and on the logs was written
                            “Friendship.” And the steady blaze went up straight to heaven. It did
                            not flicker or turn; it sent out a steady warmth. And the soul said,
                            “This is truth! This is reality! For this I climbed!” And it held out
                            its hand to the blaze. And over its head were the stars shining, but it
                            looked at the firelight. And it went to sleep there by the fire. And at
                            last the soul woke up. And the fire had gone out. And the soul groped
                            among the ashes with its hands. And there was one tiny coal left; and it
                            clung to its forefinger, and it ate the flesh away, till it had eaten to
                            the bone. And the soul laid its hand in its breast, and it lay down on
                            the ground by the ashes.
                        And the soul said, “There is now no light more. I have reached the last
                            height. There is now no light to strive for!”
                        And it lay still with its face on the ground.
                        And after a while the soul looked up. And over its head were the stars,
                            they that neither rise nor set: that shine not for the individual, but
                            for the whole; they looked down on it.
                        And the soul rose to its feet.
                        It knew why it had climbed.
                    
                    
                    
                        GOD’S GIFTS TO MEN
                        THE angels stood before God’s throne to take down his gifts to
                            men.
                        One said, “What shall I take to the little child?”
                        God said, “A long cloudless day in which there shall be no rain, to play
                            in.”
                        And one said, “What shall I take to the woman?”
                        And God said, “The touch of a little child upon her breast.”
                        And one said, “For the man?”
                        God said, “He has all things, let him enjoy.”
                        “And what shall I take for the poet?”
                        And there was silence for a little while.
                        And God said, “For the poet, a long sleep in which there shall be no
                            dream, and to which there shall be no waking: his eyes are heavy.”
                        And the angels went down.
                        
                            Alassio, Riviera, Italy.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THEY HEARD . . .
                        THE Poet and the Thinker sought for truth.
                        God bent and held a hand to either.
                        To the poet he put out his hand from a cloudless vault of blue; the Poet
                            saw it, and climbed.
                        To the Thinker God stretched his hand from the heart of a mighty cloud;
                            the man looked up and saw it move: he mounted.
                        On far?off mountain sides they laboured, looking upwards.
                        Then he who looked into the blue, cried: “Brother, you are wrong! What
                            lies above you is but dark cloud; reach it—you will find it cold mist.
                            In it you will wander for ever. Over me in the blue sky is that which
                            calls me; I rise to it!”
                        The Thinker answered: “Fellow, you are dazed. The sun has shone too long
                            upon your head. What lies above you is an empty vault of blue. Enter it,
                            you will find it empty space; you will grasp—air! Over me in that dark
                            storm cloud lives that which calls me: when the lightning flashes and
                            the thunder rolls and the cloud is riven, I see illuminated that which
                            beckons. I mount to it.”
                        
                        The Poet cried—“Fool!”
                        The Thinker—“Blind!”
                        They both mounted.
                        At last, when they were very tired, they reached their mountain
                            summits.
                        God bent, and took his Poet in his left hand, and his Thinker in his
                            right, and laid them in his breast. When they awoke, they were side by
                            side upon the heart of God. One whispered, “By the left hand, I!”; the
                            other, “By the right!” ... and they heard the truth beat.
                        
                            Mentone, Riviera.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        LIFE’S GIFTS
                        LIFE came to me, and she gave me a flower; and I wore it in my
                            breast.
                        Life came to me, and she gave me a jewel; and I set it in a diadem and
                            wore it in my hair.
                        Life came to me, and she gave me a draught of water when I was thirsty
                            unto death; and I drank it up.
                        Life came to me, and shot a ray of light on me; and I did not try to
                            catch it. I cried, “Shine on! Thou art not to be held within the hand.
                            Thy mission is to go forward. Shine on!”
                        
                            London, 1887.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE FLOWER AND THE SPIRIT
                        A FLOWER grew by the roadside.
                        A spirit passed.
                        It said: “Beautiful white flower, let me take you in my hands and carry
                            you home. I will take you up with all the soil about you, and carry you
                            safe.”
                        And the flower said: “No. Your hands will disturb me. Your hot breath
                            will curl my leaves. I grow here by the roadside in my beauty, and all
                            look at me. Go; your hot hands will curl my roots.”
                        So the spirit went.
                        And many days after it passed that way: and it was winter now, and all
                            the ground was bare and white with frost. And the flower stood alone in
                            the cold: and it said: “Oh, spirit, take me up, carry me home in your
                            warm hands. I am freezing to death.”
                        And the spirit said: “No, my hands are full with other flowers. It cannot
                            be now. See, this is all I can do ”—and it bent over the flower and
                                wept into its frozen cup burning
                            tears; and for a moment they melted it.
                        Then the spirit went its way, and the flower stood alone in the cold.
                        
                            Alassio, Italy, April 2, 1887.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE RIVER OF LIFE
                        A SOUL stood on the bank of the River of Life, and it had to
                            cross it.
                        And first it found a reed, and it tried to cross with it. But the reed
                            ran into its hand at the top in fine splinters and bent when it leaned
                            on it. Then the soul found a staff and it tried to cross with it: and
                            the sharp end ran into the ground, and the soul tried to draw it, but it
                            could not; and it stood in the water by its staff.
                        Then it got out and found a broad thick log, and it said, “With this I
                            will cross.” And it went down into the water. But the log was too
                            buoyant, it floated, and almost drew the soul from its feet.
                        And the soul stood on the bank and cried: “Oh, River of Life! How am I to
                            cross; I have tried all rods and they have failed me!”
                        And the River answered, “Cross me alone.”
                        And the soul went down into the water, and it crossed.
                        
                            Amsteg, Thursday Night, May 1887.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE BROWN FLOWER
                        THE angel who guards the gates of the Kingdom of Heaven left
                            them open one evening by chance, and a man wandered in.
                        As he looked at the silvery light a holy one came up to him.
                        “What are you doing here, friend?” it asked. “You have no pass from the
                            Angel of Death; you must go out again.”
                        And the man answered: “Oh, I am willing to go. I do not wish to stay
                            here” (for the woman he loved was below and his heaven was there). “But
                            let me only gather a few of these flowers of heaven to place on the
                            heart of one I love.”
                        And the angel said, “Gather them.” For it knew he was in the rapture of
                            first love, and the Angels of God look down with pitying eyes when they
                            see soul fiercely knit to soul.
                        And the man gathered from their beds crimson, silver, and golden Flowers
                            of Heaven; Rapturous?joy, Hope?in?the?future, Sweet?touch?of?hands,
                            Union?in?daily?life; these he took and turned to go.
                        
                        But the angel called him back.
                        “You have left the best of all,” she said. “See that small brown flower
                            growing close to the root of the tree; take that. For the flowers you
                            have got, they are only immortal in heaven; on the earth they fade.”
                        So he gathered the brown flower, and went.
                        And it came to pass after thirty years that Death went to visit a lonely
                            woman who was at the end of her journey. And Death, Death the
                            all?seeing, before whom all things are laid bare, looked into the lonely
                            woman’s bosom. Once there had been brilliant flowers laid there, by the
                            hand of a man: Rapturous?Joy—but that had been nipped by a cruel frost;
                            Sweet?union?in?daily?life—that she had given up to another; the
                            Sweet?touch?of?hands—it had dropped from her while she was still young;
                            Hope?in?the?future—it had faded and faded slowly away from her. But when
                            Death looked into her bosom, lying against the old shrivelled breast was
                            still one small brown flower, fresh and tender as on the day the man
                            laid it there, and the name of the flower was Trust.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE TWO PATHS
                        A SOUL met an angel and asked of him: “By which path shall I
                            reach heaven quickest—the path of knowledge or the path of love?” The
                            angel looked at him wonderingly and said: “Are not both paths one?”
                    
                    
                    
                        A DREAM OF PRAYER
                        I STOOD on the footstool of God’s throne, I, a saved soul, and I
                            saw the prayers that rose up to heaven go up before him.
                        And they floated up ever in new shapes and forms. And one prayed for the
                            life of her son, and the sufferer prayed for rest, and the wronged for
                            redress, and the poor for food, and the rich for happiness, and the
                            lonely for love, and the loved for faith. And amid them all I saw a
                            prayer go up that was only this: “Give me power to forgive,” and it
                            passed like a cloud of fire.
                        And years passed and I stood on the footstool of God’s throne again and
                            saw the prayers go up, and all were changed: he who prayed for love
                            prayed now for power, he who prayed for ease prayed now for strength,
                            she who had prayed for her son prayed now for his child; but I noted one
                            prayer that went up unchanged: “Give me power to forgive.”
                        Again years passed and I stood on the footstool of God’s throne once
                            more, and saw the prayers go up. Then among them all I noted one I knew;
                            it said only: “Give me power to forgive.”
                        
                        And years passed and I stood there again. And the prayers ascended, and
                            were all changed. And I heard a prayer faint and low, which said: “Teach
                            me to forgive.” And I said, “Surely this may be granted now,” for the
                            voice grew weak.
                        And God said: “It is answered; even now I have sent Death with the
                            message.”
                        
                            Gersau, Switzerland. May 20, 1887.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        WORKERS
                        IN a far?off world, God sent Two Spirits to work. The work he
                            set them to do was to tunnel through a mountain. And they stood side by
                            side and looked at it. And they began to work. They found that the place
                            they had to work in was too narrow; their wings got interlocked. They
                            saw they would never get through the mountain if they worked at it only
                            from that one place.
                        And one spirit said to the other, “You stay here; I will go and work from
                            the other side.”
                        And it flew away. And they worked on, each from his side of the mountain.
                            And after years in the dark, each one heard the sound of the other’s
                            axe, picking, and they knew they were getting near— that the other was
                            at work.
                        But before they got to the centre, these spirits’ sleep?time came; and
                            God sent other spirits to take their work and place.
                        But they had heard each other’s axes picking, in the dark; that was
                            enough for them.
                        
                            Alassio, Riviera, Italy. April 1887.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE CRY OF SOUTH AFRICA
                        GIVE back my dead!
                        They who by kop and fountain
                        First saw the light upon my rocky breast!
                        Give back my dead,
                        The sons who played upon me
                        When childhood’s dews still rested on their heads.
                        Give back my dead
                        Whom thou hast riven from me
                        By arms of men loud called from earth’s farthest bound
                        To wet my bosom with my children’s blood!
                        Give back my dead,
                        The dead who grew up on me!
                        
                            Wagenaar’s Kraal, Three Sisters. May 9,
                                1900.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        SEEDS A?GROWING
                        I SAT alone on the kopje side; at my feet were the purple
                            fig?blossoms, and the yellow dandelion flowers were closing for the
                            night. The sun was almost sinking; above him in the west the clouds were
                            beginning to form a band of gold. The cranes were already beginning to
                            fly homeward in long straight lines. I leaned my head against the rock
                            upon the kopje, and I think I slept.
                        Then it seemed that in the sky above me moved a great white figure, with
                            wings outstretched.
                        And I called, “Who and what are you, great white Spirit?”
                        And the Spirit answered, “I am the Spirit of Freedom!”
                        And I cried, “What do you do here, in this sad land, where no freedom
                            is?”
                        And he answered me, “I am watching my seeds a?sowing.”
                        And I said, “What is there a?sowing here? Our cornfields are
                            down?trodden; at day the flames from
                            burning farm?houses rise into the sky, and at night the stars look down
                            on homeless women and young children. Here the walls have ears; we look
                            round to see if no man is following us to listen to the very beating of
                            our hearts. What place is left for you here?”
                        And he said, “I have watched my seeds a?sowing. At the foot of every
                            scaffold which rises in town or village, on every spot in the barren
                            veld where men with hands tied and eyes blindfolded are led out to meet
                            death, as the ropes are drawn and the foreign bullets fly, I count the
                            blood drops a?falling; and I know that my seed is sown. I leave you now,
                            and for a while you shall know me no more; but the day will come when I
                            will return and gather in my harvest.”
                        And I cried, “Great Spirit, when shall that time be?”
                        But his wings were spread, and it seemed they covered all the sky as he
                            passed.
                        And I cried, “Spirit, beware, lest even in the sky they shoot up at you
                            and you be killed for ever in this strange sad land.”
                        But he cried as he fled from me, “I cannot die! ... Mors janua vitæ!”
                        And I started up. I saw no spirit, but the sun was sinking. The west was
                            gold and crimson. The last line of cranes with their heads stretched
                                forward and their wings outspread
                            were flying homeward. I heard their long, strange cry.
                        I glanced around me on the kopje, fearing one holding by English gold
                            might have followed me. But the kopje was silent. As I passed back into
                            the village, the barbed?wire gates were not yet closed; only the
                            dark?skinned guards scowled at me as I passed them with their rifles at
                            the gate, and armed white men jeered as I went by them; but not one of
                            them knew that I had been speaking with their great enemy on the
                            kopje!
                        
                            Hanover October 25, 1901.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE GREAT HEART OF ENGLAND
                        I HAVE had a dream; again and again it comes to me, till I fear
                            the night for its return.
                        I dream that in the war I have lost all my clothes. That they have shot
                            to pieces the old dress that I wore so long and love so. And I go to
                            have a new dress made, and I take the only stuff I can find, and the
                            skirt is of three colours, red, white, and blue, and the body is a strip
                            of green.
                        And when I have got it on I go down the street, dancing, dancing,
                            dancing. And the people stop me and they say, “Why have you got that
                            dress on?” And I say, “Do you not see it is the four colours? They shot
                            all my old dresses to pieces in the war, the old dresses that I loved
                            so. Now I could get nothing else but this.” And they say, “Why are you
                            dancing so?” And I say, “Because my heart, my heart, is broken.”
                        And all the time, as I dance, the tune that I dance to, and the words
                            that I sing, are the words of an old song I heard long ago when I was a
                            child: 
                                “They are hanging men and women now,
                                For the wearing of the Green.”
                            
                        
                        And then there is a sudden stop, there is a gleam of bayonets, and a
                            sound of guns firing; and then all is silence.
                        
                            “They are hanging men and women now,
                            For the wearing of the Green.”
                        
                        And I wake, and the cold drops are hanging on my forehead, and I cry
                            aloud in my anguish, “Who will save me from this nightmare? Can nothing
                            break it?”
                        And then I know that one thing only can break it: if I could hear the
                            beat of a great heart, the heart that has loved justice and hated
                            oppression, that has sought after righteousness rather than gold, 
                                “That strikes as soon for a trodden foe,
                                As it does for a soul?bound friend,”
                             —the great heart of England.
                        And in the dark I lean forward listening, that across six thousand miles
                            of sea I may perchance hear that heart beat.
                    
                    
                    
                        WHO KNOCKS AT THE DOOR?
                        I LAY upon my couch. Outside for days heavy snow had fallen, and
                            the long trails of the roses that grew over the balcony were weighted
                            with balls of frozen snow, and the wind blew them hither and thither.
                            They tapped upon the window panes and against the woodwork of the
                            balcony.
                        I had grown weary of looking at that dreary world outside; and I rose and
                            drew the curtains across the windows and lit the light at the head of my
                            couch, and lay down again to read the evening newspaper.
                        It was the old, old story, such as one read every night: Death and
                            destruction; “heavy losses of the enemy ”—always that; and then the long
                            straight list of names, which one followed holding oneself tight, lest
                            one among them should stab one to the very heart; then columns of hatred
                            and abuse; then statements which men in calm hours would never make, or
                            balanced men listen to; omissions and suppressions, till, amid it all,
                            the mind groped like a small animal under a pile of decaying mould
                            seeking to find the way to one ray of light; one judged what might be truth only by what was left
                            out, and the reality by what was denied. It was an old, old story; one
                            read it every day. There was nothing new in it.
                        I was going to drop the newspaper on to the floor, and try to turn my
                            thoughts to other matters, and then my eye caught sight of a paragraph,
                            in very small type, at the left?hand corner on the inside page. It was
                            printed in type so fine and the paragraph was so short that many reading
                            might not notice it, and if they did, might not trouble to decipher it.
                            Yet, it was something new; it seemed to have crept into the corner of
                            the paper by chance. Having read it once, one read it over, and then
                            again. It set one’s thoughts travelling far.
                        Holding the paper in my hands, I think I must have fallen fast asleep,
                            for I thought I found myself in a great forest. On every side the stems
                            of the trees towered up above me like the aisles of some vast cathedral,
                            and high above my head the wind struck their mighty branches together. I
                            wrapped my mantle tight about my head and struggled on in the darkness:
                            there was no path, and the dead branches cracked beneath my feet. It
                            seemed to be one of those primeval forests, such as sheltered the
                            forbears of our peoples—Suevi and Alamanni, Goth and Visigoth, Frank and
                            Saxon, Lombard and Burgundian, before we spread ourselves out over
                            Europe from the shores of the Atlantic
                            and the Bay of Biscay to Gothland, from the wet Tin Islands of the North
                            Sea to the blue waters of the Mediterranean; who followed Ruric into the
                            frozen steppes of the north, and Theodoric into Italy; and drank
                            Sicilian wines with our Northmen leaders under the slopes of Mount
                            Etna.
                        As I wandered in that impenetrable darkness, at last it seemed to me as
                            though, from far off, I saw a gleam of light, and it almost seemed to me
                            I heard distant sounds which were not those of the forest and the storm.
                            I struggled onward, and, at last, I came to a place where through the
                            darkness, under the over?arching trees, I could see looming a mighty
                            building; light streamed from its windows of many?coloured glass, and
                            from within came sounds of song and music, and loud laughter and shouts,
                            as of those who applaud and rejoice.
                        I crept close up to the building, and pressed my face against a pane in a
                            small window and looked in. It was a wonderful scene that met my eyes.
                            Within was a vast hall built of richly carved woods, and the pillars
                            that supported it were shaped in every lovely form, and sprang upwards
                            into the groined roof, from which hung thousands of glittering lights;
                            and along the walls golden torches were flaming; and beneath stood works
                            of art, and scattered about the Hall were large tables, covered with
                            glittering crystal and gold and silver vessels; and upon the tables were
                                loaded all of rich and rare of
                            viands and wines that the earth produces.
                        Around the tables sat men and women clad in gorgeous robes; some had
                            golden crowns on their heads and sceptres in their hands, and others
                            paid court to them; and the women wore jewels of gold set heavily with
                            precious stones, till they seemed weighted with them.
                        And I saw that from table to table they passed the rare viands and wines,
                            exchanging them with one another; and men and women sang and danced now
                            before this table and then before that, and the feasters showered gold
                            and jewels upon them; and I saw men take ornaments from their own
                            breasts and pass them on to men at other tables. And I noticed that
                            though there were differences between those who sat at the different
                            tables, yet they were all really of one garb and one appearance. And I
                            said to myself, “Surely this is some vast banqueting house, where a
                            great kindred are holding high festival together.” And I thought,
                            “Surely never since earth was earth has so much of richness, of rarity,
                            been gathered together in one spot.” And I marvelled when I thought of
                            the labour which had brought all these things together, where once only
                            the trees of the forest stood.
                        And then, as I looked, I noticed that all the men wore daggers fastened
                            at their sides: and as I watched, I
                            thought I saw that though their lips were smiling sometimes their brows
                            lowered; and I thought that some cast looks of envy as the viands passed
                            from table to table; and it even seemed to me some whispered behind
                            their hands as they glanced at one another: and though dance and song
                            and feasting went on, the feeling came to me that, perhaps, all was not
                            so well with that great company.
                        And then, I hardly seemed to know what happened, but at a table at the
                            far end some drew their daggers and a man and woman fell dead upon the
                            floor. Then from other tables others arose and stabbed at one another,
                            and flung one another to the earth; and more and more arose, till from
                            end to end of that great Hall blood flowed and men fell wounded and
                            dying to the ground. And the tables were overturned; and the rare viands
                            and the rich wines and glittering crystals and costly ornaments and rare
                            works of art fell scattered and broken on the ground. And I saw that, in
                            their mad rage, men seized broken fragments from the floor and hurled
                            them at one another, till the glass in every door and window was
                            shattered and the very walls were indented. And I saw women, who, with
                            wild, hoarse voices, called on the men to stab and kill yet more; and
                            some passed on to the men fragments to hurl at one another, though they
                            themselves fell often buried beneath the heaps of killed and
                            wounded.
                        
                        And I, looking on through the shattered window, wrung my hands and cried,
                            “Stop it! Stop it! Can you not see, you are destroying all?” But it
                            might have been two small leaves in the forest trees overhead clapping
                            themselves together, for any sound the feeble words made in that vast
                            tumult.
                        And in their madness I saw men drag down the great glittering lights that
                            hung from the centre of the Hall, and fling the fragments at one
                            another; and tear down the lighted torches that were fastened to the
                            walls, and strike one another with them. And as the lights fell down on
                            that seething mass that covered the floor, they set fire to the garments
                            of the fallen, and smoke began to rise. And outside the window where I
                            stood came the stench of burning human flesh.
                        And I was silent with horror; for surely never since man was man upon the
                            earth was there such a great and horrible destruction in any Hall where
                            a great human kindred were gathered together.
                        And then, as I stood gazing in, it almost seemed to me, though I could
                            not tell surely, that, from the far end of the Hall, where the great
                            shattered doorway stood, I heard—three, slow, clear, distinct knocks! I
                            listened; and then again I heard the sounds, and this time I knew I was
                            not mistaken—slow, clear, distinct! And as I looked across that fallen
                            mass of ruin, it seemed to me, I saw,
                            through a broken pane in the great shattered doorway at the far end, a
                            human face looking in! The smoke came in between it and me; but I know I
                            saw it.
                        And as I gazed, the flames began to creep up the walls of the Hall, and
                            up the carved pillars, towards the roof itself.
                        And I wrapped my mantle tight about my head, and turned away into the
                            darkness and the night. For my heart was wae for the
                            great desolation had seen—that men with their own hands should tear down
                            that which with so much toil they had reared, and should consume that
                            which with so much labour they had gathered, and that so much of the
                            rare and beautiful should be no more! I sorrowed me over that great,
                            brave company which had wrought so much. It might be, I knew well, that
                            those whose knock I had heard might enter in, and take possession of
                            that great Banquet House, and might even rebuild it in a nobler and
                            fairer form: might build it so wide that not only one kindred but all
                            kindreds might gather in it; and that the wine which they drank might
                            give no madness, and the weapons be no more found at the sides of those
                            who banqueted.
                        But for me, I was sore sorrowful over the destruction of that great
                            kindred, and I wept as I stumbled onwards in the dark.
                        And the trees of that primeval forest, as they knocked their vast branches together over my head,
                            cried: “Mad—MAD!—MAD!”
                        I woke: I was still lying stretched on the couch with the electric light
                            burning at my head: the paper I had held up in my hand had fallen down
                            on my breast. Outside the wild wind that had raged had grown silent, and
                            the rose branches no longer tapped on the woodwork. I listened to the
                            silence.
                        Then again I took up the evening paper and re?read the small paragraph at
                            the left?hand corner on the inside page. And one’s thoughts travelled
                            far into the future.
                        
                            London, 1917.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE WINGED BUTTERFLY
                        THE insects lived among the flowers. They were all soft, lovely
                            little creatures without wings.
                        By and by one little caterpillar began to have tiny lumps upon his
                            shoulders that grew out and out. “Ah,” said the others, “he is ugly,
                            see, he is deformed.” And the little caterpillar hid behind the leaves,
                            and the lumps grew more and more, and at last they came out lovely
                            little wings. Then he came back to his fellows, and they all said, “Oh,
                            lovely little brother. Oh, lovely brother.” And he shook little wings,
                            and he said, “It was for this I went away, for this to grow I was
                            deformed.” And he flew round. And he came to one that he loved and he
                            said, “Come, climb with me and let us go and sit on that flower.” And
                            his comrade said, “I cannot climb; it tires me; I have no wings like
                            you. Go alone.” And he said, “No, I will go with you.” And the other
                            said, “I am going here in this little hole in the earth.” And the
                            butterfly tried to fold his wings and creep in after him, but he could
                            not; and he almost tore his wings off in the door, but he could not.
                            Then he went away, and he said to another, “Come, let us be companions.”
                            And the other said, “Yes, I like your
                            wings, but you must walk by me; you must not use your wings and fly.”
                            And he said, “Yes, I will only wrap them down.” And they walked a little
                            way together. Then the other said, “You are going too fast; your wings
                            blow you on; do go slower.” And the butterfly held his little wings as
                            still as he could. And the other said, “They stick up so; couldn’t you
                            lay them against your side?” And he said “Yes.” But when he held them
                            against his side they ached so they nearly fell off. They ached, and
                            ached, and ached. And the other said: “What are you so slow for? I
                            thought one with wings would go faster than another. I thought you were
                            so beautiful when you were up in the air. You are very ugly now. What
                            are wings for? They only draggle in the mud.”
                        Then the little butterfly spread his wings and flew away, away, away; and
                            he kept far from the others and flew about by himself among the
                            flowers.
                        And then the others said, “See how happy he is flying about there among
                            the flowers, he’s so proud of his wings.”
                        And one day the little butterfly sat on a rose, and died there. And the
                            others thought it died of drinking too much honey. None of them knew
                            that it died of a broken heart.
                        
                            Harpenden, August 27, 1888.
                        
                    
                    Printed in Great Britain by Hazell, Watson & Viney, Ld., London
                    and Aylesbury.
                        
                
            
        
        
        
            
                
                    BOOKS BY OLIVE SCHREINER
                    THOUGHTS OF SOUTH AFRICA. 21s. net. Olive Schreiner was one
                        of the leading authorities on South Africa, its problems, races, charms, and
                        history. In this book she records an invaluable set of recollections and
                        pictures of a South Africa which has now vanished. She gives a most
                        interesting account of South Africa’s early days, the history of the
                        country, the Boers and the natives, and the narrative is illuminated and
                        inspired by her matchless gifts of style. It is a really valuable and
                        important contribution to the literature of South Africa, which will be read
                        both by the student of history and the general reader.
                    
                        WOMAN AND LABOUR. Cloth, 2s. 6d. net.
                        
                            
                                “A book which will be read and discussed for many years to
                                    come.”—
                                The Nation.
                            
                            
                                “The feelings which are behind the various women’s movements
                                    could not find clearer or more eloquent expression than they do
                                    in this remarkable book.”—
                                The Daily Mail.
                            
                            
                                “One may begin to doubt the cause of women’s rights when the
                                    opponents of sex equality produce an equally glowing, earnest,
                                    and prophetic book.”—
                                The Daily News.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    BOOKS FOR NATURE?LOVERS
                    POEMS ABOUT BIRDS: An Anthology. Edited by H. J. MASSINGHAM, Author
                            of “Some Birds of the Countryside.” With an Introduction by J. C.
                            Squire. 10s. 6d. net. Mr. H. J. Massingham, who shows an equal
                        love for literature and natural history and has written books on both
                        subjects, is now turning his attention to collecting an Anthology of
                        Bird?Poems, taking as his province the whole of English literature. The
                        editor’s experience as an anthologist—he has edited a volume in the Golden
                        Treasury Series—combined with his literary and scientific knowledge, makes
                        the task a peculiarly congenial and appropriate one for him.
                    WILD NATURE AND COUNTRY LIFE. By A WOODMAN. With an Introduction by
                            H. J. MASSINGHAM. 6s. net. Beginning hard out?of?door life when
                        quite a boy, the author had no opportunities of gaining knowledge at school
                        beyond the mere ability to read and write and perform the simplest sum in
                        arithmetic. When a lad of eight he was thrust out into the fields to earn a
                        little to help the home. Thus Nature became his tutor. He tells here how he
                        became a naturalist, about hedgerow life, about the haunts of the otter and
                        the nightingale, about walking through the woods, about daybreak and the
                        stillness of the night in the country, and many other kindred
                        matters.
                
                
                
                    THE MERMAID SERIES
                    
                        The Best Plays of the Old Dramatists, Literal Reproductions of the
                            Old Text.
                        Each with a Photogravure Frontispiece.
                        Boards, 3s. 6d. net; cloth, 5s. net; leather, 7s. 6d. net
                            each.
                        Among the Dramatists represented in the Mermaid Series
                            are:
                        Beaumont and Fletcher.
                        George Chapman.
                        William Congreve.
                        Thomas Dekker.
                        John Dryden.
                        George Farquhar.
                        John Ford.
                        Robert Greene.
                        Thomas Heywood.
                        Ben Jonson.
                        Christopher Marlowe.
                        Phillip Messinger.
                        Thomas Middleton.
                        Thomas Otway.
                        Thomas Shadwell.
                        James Shirley.
                        Richard Steele.
                        Sir John Vanburgh.
                        Webster and Tourneur.
                        William Wycherley.
                        Send for a full descriptive catalogue of the Mermaid
                            Series.
                    
                
                
                
                    BOOKS BY W. B. YEATS
                    
                        POEMS. Second Edition. With a Photogravure Frontispiece. Cloth, 10s.
                            6d. net.
                        “Love songs, fairy themes, moods of meditation, scenes of legendary
                            wonder ... is it possible that they should become so infinitely
                            thrilling, touching, haunting in their fresh treatment as though they
                            had never been, or poets had never turned to them? In this poet’s hands
                            they do so become. Mr. Yeats has given us a new thrill of delight, a new
                            experience of beauty.”—
                        Daily Chronicle.
                    
                    
                        THE COUNTESS CATHLEEN. Volume I of Dublin Plays. Paper Cover, 2s.
                            net.
                        “The story of the Countess Cathleen selling her soul for the starving
                            people is a legend of Christian Ireland .... Mr. Yeats has treated this
                            singular and interesting legend as only a true poet could. He has set it
                            in its own proper atmosphere, and endowed it with rich significance and
                            impressive actuality.”—
                        Saturday Review.
                    
                    
                        THE LAND OF HEART’S DESIRE. Volume II of Dublin Plays. Paper Cover,
                            2s. net.
                        “In ‘The Land of Heart’s Desire’ Mr. Yeats has repeated the proof he gave
                            in ‘Countess Cathleen’ of his discovery of a field of literature
                            perfectly adapted to his rare powers, and in which he is likely to
                            remain without a competitor.”—
                        Illustrated London News.
                    
                
                T. FISHER UNWIN, LTD., 1 ADELPHI TERRACE, LONDON, W.C.
            
        
    
