
     ----CITATION----
        Blind, Mathilde (1841-1896). The Ascent of Man. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 203 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (November 6, 1995).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7015
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    The Ascent of Man
                
                by Mathilde Blind
                
                    London
                    Chatto & Windus, 
                    Piccadilly
                
                1889
            
            
                Contents.
                
                    The Ascent of Man. 
                            Prelude—Wings 3
                        
                        
                            Part I.
                            Chaunts of Life 7
                            A Symbol 59
                            Time’s Shadow 60
                        
                        
                            Part II.
                            The Pilgrim Soul 63
                            Saving Love 80
                            Nirvana 81
                            Motherhood 82
                        
                        
                            Part III.
                            The Leading of Sorrow 85
                        
                    Poems of the Open Air. 
                            The Sower 113
                            A Spring Song 116
                            April Rain 117
                            
                            The Sleeping Beauty 119
                            Apple?Blossom 120
                            The Music?Lesson 122
                            The Teamster 124
                            A Highland Village 136
                            On A Forsaken Lark’s Nest 138
                            Reapers 140
                            Apple?Gathering 142
                            The Songs of Summer 145
                            Autumn Tints 146
                            Green Leaves and Sere 148
                            The Hunter’s Moon 149
                            The Passing Year 151
                            The Robin Redbreast 152
                            The Red Sunsets, 1883 154
                            The Red Sunsets, 1883 155
                            On the Lighthouse at Antibes 156
                            Cagnes 157
                            A Winter Landscape 158
                        
                    Love In Exile. 
                            Songs.
                            “Thou Walkest With Me” 161
                            “I Was Again Beside My Love” 162
                            “I Am Athirst, But Not For Wine” 164
                            “I Would I Were the Glow?Worm” 165
                            “Dost Thou Remember?” 167
                            “O Moon, Large Golden Summer Moon” 169
                            “Why Will You Haunt Me Unawares?” 171
                            “When You Wake From Troubled Slumbers” 173
                            
                            “In a Lonesome Burial?Place” 175
                            “On Life’s Long Round” 177
                            “Ah, Yesterday Was Dark and Drear” 178
                            “Yea, the Roses Are Still On Fire” 179
                            “We Met As Strangers” 180
                            “You Make the Sunshine Of My Heart” 182
                            “Dear, When I Look Into Your Eyes” 184
                            “Ah, If You Knew” 186
                            “Your Looks Have Touched My Soul” 187
                            “Oh, Brown Eyes With Long Black Lashes” 188
                            “Once On a Golden Day” 190
                            “What Magic Is There In Thy Mien?” 192
                            Heart’s?Ease 194
                            Untimely Love 195
                            The After?Glow 196
                            L’Envoi 197
                        
                
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                        
                        THE ASCENT OF MAN.
                        
                        
                            PRELUDE.
                            WINGS.
                            
                                ASCEND, oh my Soul, with the wings of the lark
                                    ascend!
                                Soaring away and away far into the blue.
                                Or with the shrill seagull to the breakers bend,
                                Or with the bee, where the grasses and field?flowers blend,
                                Drink out of golden cups of the honey?dew.
                            
                            
                                Ascend, oh my Soul, on the wings of the wind as it blows,
                                Striking wild organ?blasts from the forest trees,
                                Or on the zephyr bear love of the rose to the rose,
                                
                                Or with the hurricane sower cast seed as he goes
                                Limitless ploughing the leagues of the sibilant
                                    seas.
                            
                            
                                Ascend, oh my Soul, on the wings of the choral strain,
                                Invisible tier above tier upbuilding sublime;
                                Note as it scales after note in a rhythmical chain
                                Reaching from chaos and welter of struggle and pain,
                                Far into vistas empyreal receding from time.
                            
                            
                                Ascend! take wing on the thoughts of the Dead, my Soul,
                                Breathing in colour and stone, flashing through epic
                                    and song:
                                Thoughts that like avalanche snows gather force as they roll,
                                Mighty to fashion and knead the phenomenal throng
                                Of generations of men as they thunder along.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            Part I.
                            THE ASCENT OF MAN.
                            Part I.
                            
                            
                                As compressed within the bounded shell
                                Boundless Ocean seems to surge and swell,
                                Haunting echoes of an infinite whole
                                Moan and murmur through Man’s finite soul.
                            
                            
                            
                                CHAUNTS OF LIFE.
                                
                                    I.
                                    STRUCK out of dim fluctuant forces and shock of
                                        electrical vapour,
                                    Repelled and attracted the atoms flashed mingling in union
                                        primeval,
                                    And over the face of the waters far heaving in limitless
                                        twilight
                                    Auroral pulsations thrilled faintly, and, striking the blank
                                        heaving surface,
                                    The measureless speed of their motion now leaped into light
                                        on the waters.
                                    And lo, from the womb of the waters, upheaved in volcanic
                                        convulsion,
                                    
                                    Ribbed and ravaged and rent there rose bald peaks and the
                                        rocky
                                    Heights of confederate mountains compelling the fugitive
                                        vapours
                                    To take a form as they passed them and float as clouds
                                        through the azure.
                                    Mountains, the broad?bosomed mothers of torrents and rivers
                                        perennial, 
                                    Feeding the rivers and plains with patient persistence, till
                                        slowly,
                                    In the swift passage of æons recorded in stone by Time’s
                                        graver,
                                    There germ grey films of the lichen and mosses and palm?ferns
                                        gigantic,
                                    And jungle of tropical forest fantastical branches
                                        entwining,
                                    And limitless deserts of sand and wildernesses primeval.
                                
                                
                                
                                    II.
                                    
                                        Lo, moving o’er chaotic waters,
                                        Love dawned upon the seething waste,
                                        Transformed in ever new avatars
                                        It moved without or pause or haste:
                                        Like sap that moulds the leaves of May
                                        It wrought within the ductile clay.
                                    
                                    
                                        And vaguely in the pregnant deep,
                                        Clasped by the glowing arms of light
                                        From and eternity of sleep
                                        Within unfathomed gulfs of night
                                        A pulse stirred in the plastic slime
                                        Responsive to the rhythm of Time.
                                    
                                    
                                        Enkindled in the mystic dark
                                        Life built herself a myriad forms,
                                        And, flashing its electric spark
                                        Through films and cells and pulps and
                                            worms,
                                        
                                        Flew shuttlewise above, beneath,
                                        Weaving the web of life and death.
                                    
                                    
                                        And multiplying in the ocean,
                                        Amorphous, rude, colossal things
                                        Lolled on the ooze in lazy motion,
                                        Armed with grim jaws or uncouth wings;
                                        Helpless to lift their cumbering bulk
                                        They lurch like some dismasted hulk.
                                    
                                    
                                        And virgin forest, verdant plain,
                                        The briny sea, the balmy air,
                                        Each blade of grass and globe of rain,
                                        And glimmering cave and gloomy lair
                                        Began to swarm with beasts and birds,
                                        With floating fish and fleet?foot herds.
                                    
                                    
                                        The lust of life’s delirious fires
                                         Burned like a fever in their blood,
                                        Now pricked them on with fierce desires,
                                        Now drove them famishing for food,
                                        
                                        To seize coy females in the fray,
                                        Or hotly hunted for prey.
                                    
                                    
                                        And amorously urged them on
                                        In wood or wild to court their mate,
                                        Proudly displaying in the sun
                                        With antics strange and looks elate,
                                        The vigour of their mighty thews
                                        Or charm of million?coloured hues.
                                    
                                    
                                        There crouching ’mid the scarlet bloom,
                                        Voluptuously the leopard lies,
                                        And through the tropic forest gloom
                                        The flaming of his feline eyes
                                        Stirs with intoxicating stress
                                        The pulses of the leopardess.
                                    
                                    
                                        Or two swart bulls of self?same age
                                        Meet furiously with thunderous roar,
                                        And lash together, blind with rage,
                                        And clanging horns that fain would gore
                                        
                                        Their rival, and so win the prize
                                        Of those impassive female eyes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Or in the nuptial days of spring,
                                        When April kindles bush and brier,
                                        Like rainbows that have taken wing,
                                        Or palpitating gems of fire,
                                        Bright butterflies in one brief day
                                        Live but to love and pass away.
                                    
                                    
                                        And herds of horses scour the plains,
                                        The thickets scream with bird and beast
                                        The love of life burns in their veins,
                                        And from the mightiest to the least
                                        Each preys upon the other’s life
                                        In inextinguishable strife.
                                    
                                    
                                        War rages on the teeming earth;
                                        The hot and sanguinary fight
                                        Begins with each new creature’s birth:
                                        A dreadful war where might is right;
                                        
                                        Where still the strongest slay and win,
                                        Where weakness is the only sin.
                                    
                                    
                                        There is no truce to this drawn battle,
                                        Which ends but to begin again;
                                        The drip of blood, the hoarse death?rattle,
                                        The roar of rage, the shriek of pain,
                                        Are rife in fairest grove and dell,
                                        Turning earth’s flowery haunts to hell.
                                    
                                    
                                        A hell of hunger, hatred, lust,
                                        Which goads all creatures here below,
                                        Or blindworm wriggling in the dust,
                                        Or penguin in the Polar snow:
                                        A hell where there is none to save,
                                        Where life is life’s insatiate grave.
                                    
                                    
                                        And in the long portentous strife,
                                        Where types are tried even as by fire,
                                        Where life is whetted upon life
                                        And step by panting step mounts higher,
                                        
                                        Apes lifting hairy arms now stand
                                        And free the wonder?working hand.
                                    
                                    
                                        They raise a light aërial house
                                        On shafts of widely branching trees,
                                        Where, harboured warily, each spouse
                                        May feed her little ape in peace,
                                        Green cradled in his heaven?roofed bed,
                                        Leaves rustling lullabies o’erhead.
                                    
                                    
                                        And lo, ’mid reeking swarms of earth
                                        Grim struggling in the primal wood,
                                        A new strange creature hath its birth:
                                        Wild—stammering—nameless—shameless—nude;
                                        Spurred on by want, held in by fear,
                                        He hides his head in caverns drear.
                                    
                                    
                                        Most unprotected of earth’s kin,
                                        His fight for life that seems so vain
                                        
                                        Sharpens his senses, till within
                                        The twilight mazes of his brain,
                                        Like embryos within the womb,
                                        Thought pushes feelers through the gloom.
                                    
                                    
                                        And slowly in the fateful race
                                        It grows unconscious, till at length
                                        The helpless savage dares to face
                                        The cave?bear in his grisly strength;
                                        For stronger than its bulky thews
                                        He feels a force that grows with use.
                                    
                                    
                                        From age to dumb unnumbered age,
                                        By dim gradations long and slow,
                                        He reaches on from stage to stage,
                                        Through fear and famine, weal and woe
                                        And, compassed round with danger, still
                                        Prolongs his life by craft and skill.
                                    
                                    
                                        With cunning hand he shapes the flint,
                                        He carves the horn with strange device,
                                        
                                        He splits the rebel block by dint
                                        Of effort—till one day there flies 
                                        A spark of fire from out the stone:
                                        Fire which shall make the world his own.
                                    
                                
                                
                                
                                    III.
                                    And from the clash of warring Nature’s strife
                                    Man day by day wins his imperilled life;
                                    For goaded on by want, he hunts the roe,
                                    Chases the deer, and lays the wild boar low.
                                    In his rude boat made of the hollow trees
                                    He drifts adventurous on the unoared seas,
                                    And, as he tilts upon the rocking tide,
                                    Catches the glistening fish that flash and glide
                                    Innumerably through the waters wide.
                                    He’ll fire the bush whose flames shall help him fel
                                    The trunks to prop his roof, where he may dwell
                                    Beside the bubbling of a crystal well,
                                    Sheltered from drenching rains or noxious glare
                                    When the sun holds the zenith. Delving there,
                                    His cumbered wife, whose multifarious toil
                                    Seems never done, breaks the rich virgin soil,
                                    
                                    And in the ashes casts the casual seeds
                                    Of feathered grass and efflorescent weeds;
                                    When, as with thanks, the bounteous earth one morn
                                    Returns lush blades of life?sustaining corn.
                                    And while the woman digs and plants, and twines
                                    To precious use long reeds and pliant bines,
                                    He—having hit the brown bird on the wing,
                                    And slain the roe—returns at evening,
                                    And gives his spoil unto her, to prepare
                                    The succulent, wildwood scented, simmering fare,
                                    While with impatient sniffs and eager?eyed
                                    His bronze?limbed children gather to his side.
                                    And, when the feast is done, all take their ease,
                                    Lulled by the sing?song of the evening breeze
                                    And murmuring undertones of many?foliaged trees;
                                    While here and there through rifts of green the sky
                                    Casts its blue glance like an all?seeing eye.
                                    But though by stress of want and poignant need
                                    Man tames the wolf?sprung hound and rearing steed,
                                    Pens up the ram, and yokes the deep?horned ox,
                                    
                                    And through wide pastures shepherds woolly flocks;
                                    Though age by age, through discipline of toil,
                                    Man wring a richer harvest from the soil,
                                    And in the grim and still renewing fight
                                    Slays loathly worms and beasts of gruesome might
                                    By the close?knitted bondage of the clan,
                                    Which adding up the puny strength of man
                                    Makes thousands move with one electric thrill
                                    Of simultaneous, energetic will;
                                    Yet still behind the narrow borderland
                                    Where in security he seems to stand,
                                    His apprehensive life is compassed round
                                    By baffling mysteries he cannot sound,
                                    Where, big with terrors and calamities,
                                    The future like a foe in ambush lies:
                                    A muffled foe, that seems to watch and wait
                                    With the Medusa eyes of stony fate.—
                                    Great floods o’erwhelm and ruin his ripening grain,
                                    His boat is shattered by the hurricane,
                                    
                                    From the rent cloud the tameless lightning springs—
                                    Heaven’s flame?mouthed dragon with a roar of wings—
                                    And fires his hut and simple household things;
                                    Until before his horror?stricken eyes
                                    The stored?up produce of long labour lies,
                                    A heap of ashes smoking ’neath the skies.—
                                    Or now the pastures where his flocks did graze,
                                    Parched, withered, shrivelled by the imminent blaze
                                    Of the great ball of fire that glares above,
                                    Glow dry like iron heated in a stove;
                                    Turning upon themselves, the tortured sheep,
                                    With blackening tongues, drop heap on gasping heap,
                                    Their rotting flesh sickens the wind that moans
                                    And whistles poisoned through their chattering bones;
                                    While the thin shepherd, staring sick and gaunt,
                                    Will search the thorns for berries, or yet haunt
                                    
                                    The stony channels of some river?bed
                                    Where filtering fresh perchance a liquid thread
                                    Of water may run clear.—Now dark o’erhead,
                                    Thickening with storm, the wintry clouds will loom,
                                    And wrap the land in weeks of mournful gloom;
                                    Shrouding the sun and every lesser light
                                    Till earth with all her aging woods grows white,
                                    And hurrying streams stop fettered in their flight.
                                    Then famished beasts freeze by the frozen lakes,
                                    And thick as leaves dead birds bestrew the brakes;
                                    And, cowering blankly by the flickering flame,
                                    Man feels a presence without a form or name,
                                    When by the bodies of his speechless dead
                                    In barbarous woe he bows his stricken head.
                                    Then in the hunger of his piteous love
                                    He sends his thought, winged like a carrier dove—
                                    Through the unanswering silence void and vast,
                                    Whence from dim hollows blows an icy blast—
                                    To bring some sign, some little sign at last,
                                    
                                    From his lost chiefs—the beautiful, the brave—
                                    Vanished like bubbles on a breaking wave,
                                    Lost in the unfathomed darkness of the grave.
                                    When, lo, behold beside him in the night,—
                                    Softly beside him, like the noiseless light
                                    Of moonbeams moving o’er the glimmering floor
                                    That come unbidden through the bolted door,—
                                    The lonely sleeper sees the lost one stand
                                    Like one returned from some dim, distant land,
                                    Bending towards him with his outstretched hand.
                                    But when he fain would grasp it in his own,
                                    He melts into thin moonshine and is gone—
                                    A spirit now, who on the other shore
                                    Of death hunts happily evermore.—
                                    A Son of Life, but dogged, while he draws breath,
                                    By her inseparable shadow—death,
                                    Man, feeble Man, whom unknown Fates appal,
                                    With prayer and praise seeks to propitiate all
                                    The spirits, who, for good or evil plight,
                                    Bless him in victory or in sickness smite.
                                    
                                    Those are his Dead who, wrapped in grisly shrouds,
                                    Now ride phantasmal on the rushing clouds,
                                    Souls of departed chiefs whose livid forms
                                    He sees careering on the reinless storms,
                                    Wild, spectral huntsmen who tumultuously,
                                    With loud halloo and shrilly echoing cry,
                                    Follow the furious chase, with the whole pack
                                    Of shadowy hounds fierce yelping in the track
                                    Of wolves and bears as shadowy as the hosts
                                    Who lead once more as unsubstantial ghosts
                                    Their lives of old as restlessly they fly
                                    Across the wildernesses of the sky.
                                    When the wild hunt is done, shall they not rest
                                    Their heads upon some swan?white maiden’s breast,
                                    And quaff their honeyed mead with godlike zest
                                    In golden?gated Halls whence they may see
                                    The earth and marvellous secrets of the Sea
                                    Whereon the clouds will lie with grey wings furled,
                                    
                                    And in whose depths, voluminously curled,
                                    The serpent looms whose girth engirds the world?
                                    Far, far above now in supernal power
                                    Those spirits rule the sunshine and the shower!
                                    How shall he win their favour; yea, how move
                                    To pity the unpitying gods above,
                                    The Dæmon rulers of life’s fitful dream,
                                    Who sway men’s destinies, and still would seem
                                    To treat them lightly as a game of chance,
                                    The sport of whim and blindfold circumstance—
                                    The irresponsible, capricious gods,
                                    So quick to please or anger; who sharp rods
                                    Are storms and lightnings launched from cloven skies;
                                    Who feast upon the shuddering victim’s cries,
                                    The smell of blood, and human sacrifice.
                                    But ever as Man grows they grow with him;
                                    Terrific, cruel, gentle, bright, or dim,
                                    With eyes of dove?like mercy, hands of wrath,
                                    Procession?like, they hover o’er his path
                                    
                                    And, changing with the gazer, borrow light
                                    From their rapt devotee’s adoring sight.
                                    And Ormuzd, Ashtaroth, Osiris, Baal—
                                    Love spending gods and gods of blood and wail—
                                    Look down upon their suppliant from the skies
                                    With his own magnified, responsive eyes.
                                    For Man, from want and pressing hunger freed,
                                    Begins to feel another kind of need,
                                    And in his shaping brain and through his eyes
                                    Nature, awakening, sees her blue?arched skies;
                                    The Sun, his life?begetter, isled in space;
                                    The Moon, the Measurer of his span of days;
                                    The immemorial stars who pierce his night
                                    With inklings of things vast and infinite.
                                    All shows of heaven and earth that move and pass
                                    Take form within his brain as in a glass.
                                    The tidal thunder of the sea now roars
                                    And breaks symphonious on a hundred shores;
                                    The fitful flutings of the vagrant breeze
                                    Strike gusts of sound from virgin forest trees;
                                    
                                    White leaping waters of wild cataracts fall
                                    From crag and jag in lapses musical,
                                    And streams meandering amid daisied leas
                                    Throb with the pulses of tumultuous seas.
                                    From hills and valleys smoking mists arise,
                                    Steeped in pale gold and amethystine dyes.
                                    The land takes colour from him, and the flowers
                                    Laugh in his path like sun?dyed April showers.
                                    The moving clouds in calm or thunderstorm,
                                    All shows of things in colour, sound, or form
                                    Moulded mysteriously, are freshly wrought
                                    Within the fiery furnace of his thought.
                                
                                
                                
                                    IV.
                                    
                                        No longer Nature’s thrall,
                                        Man builds the city wall
                                        That shall withstand her league of levelling storms;
                                        He builds tremendous tombs
                                        Where, hid in hoarded glooms,
                                        His dead defy corruption with her worms:
                                        High towers he rears and bulks of glowing stone,
                                        Where the king rules upon a golden throne.
                                    
                                    
                                        Creature of hopes and fears,
                                        Of mirth and many tears,
                                        He makes himself a thousand costly altars,
                                        Whence smoke of sacrifice,
                                        Fragrant with myrrh and spice,
                                        Ascends to heaven as the flame leaps and falters;
                                        Where, like a king above the Cloud control,
                                        God sits enthroned and rules Man’s subject soul.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        Yet grievous here below
                                         And manifold Man’s woe;
                                        Though he can stay the flood and bind the waters,
                                        His hand he shall not stay
                                        That bids him sack and slay
                                        And turn the waving fields to fields of slaughters;
                                        And, as he reaps War’s harvest grim and gory,
                                        Commits a thousand crimes and calls it glory.
                                    
                                    
                                        Vast empires fall and rise,
                                        As when in sunset skies
                                        The monumental clouds lift flashing towers
                                        With turrets, spires, and bars
                                         Lit by confederate stars
                                        Till the bright rack dissolves in flying showers:
                                        Kingdoms on kingdoms have their fleeting day,
                                        Dazzle the conquered world, and pass away.
                                    
                                    
                                        In golden Morning lands
                                        The blazing crowns change hands,
                                        From mystic Ind to fleshly Babylon,
                                        
                                        Assyria, Palestine
                                        Armed with her book divine,
                                        Dread Persia whose fleet chariots charged and won
                                        Pale Continents where prostrate monarchs kneel
                                        Before the flash of her resistless steel.
                                    
                                    
                                        As one by one they start
                                        With proudly beating heart
                                        Fast in the furious, fierce?contested race,
                                        Where neck to neck they strain
                                        Deliriously to gain
                                        The winning post of power; the meed of praise;
                                        Some drop behind, fall, or are trampled down
                                        While the proud victor grasps the laurel crown.
                                    
                                    
                                        Not only great campaigns
                                        Shall glorify their reigns,
                                        But high?towered cities wondrous to behold,
                                        With gardens poised in air
                                        Like bowers of Eden fair,
                                        With brazen gates and shrines of beaten gold,
                                        
                                        And Palace courts whose constellated lights
                                        Shine on black slaves and cringing satellites.
                                    
                                    
                                        Eclipsing with her fate
                                        Each power and rival state
                                        With her unnumbered stretch of generations,
                                        A sand?surrounded isle
                                        Fed by the bounteous Nile,
                                        Egypt confronts Sahara—sphinx of nations;
                                        Taught by the floods that make or mar her shore,
                                        She scans the stars and hoards mysterious lore.
                                    
                                    
                                        Hers are imperial halls
                                        With strangely scriptured walls
                                        And long perspectives of memorial places,
                                        Where the hushed daylight glows
                                        On mute colossal rows
                                        Of clawed wild beasts featured with female faces,
                                        
                                        And realmless kings inane whose stony eyes
                                        Have watched the hour?glass of the centuries.
                                    
                                    
                                        There in the rainless sands
                                        The toil of captive hands,
                                        That aye must do as their taskmaster bids,
                                        Through years of dusty days
                                        Brick by slow brick shall raise
                                        The incarnate pride of kings—the Pyramids—
                                        Linked with some name synonymous with slaughter
                                        Time has effaced like a name writ in water.
                                    
                                    
                                        For ever with fateful shocks,
                                        Roar as of hurtling rocks,
                                        Start fresh embattled hosts with flags unfurled,
                                        To meet on battle?fields
                                        With clash of spears and shields,
                                        Widowing the world of men to win the world:
                                        The hissing air grows dark with iron rain,
                                        And groans the earth beneath her sheaves of slain.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        Triumphant o’er them all,
                                        See crowns and sceptres fall
                                        Before the arms of iron?soldered legions;
                                        As Capitolian Rome
                                        Across the salt sea foam
                                        Orders her Cæsars to remotest regions:
                                        From silver Spain and Albion’s clouded seas
                                        To the fair shrines and marble mines of Greece.
                                    
                                    
                                        Pallas unmatched in war,
                                        To her triumphal car
                                        Rome chains fallen despots and discrownèd queens
                                        With many a rampant beast,
                                        Birds from the gorgeous East,
                                        And wool?haired Nubians torn from tropic scenes;
                                        There huge barbarians from Druidic woods
                                        Tower ominous o’er the humming multitudes;
                                    
                                    
                                        For still untamed and free
                                        In loathed captivity,
                                        Their spirits bend not to the conqueror’s yoke,
                                        
                                        Though for a Roman sight
                                        They must in mimic fight
                                        Give wounds in play and deal Death’s mortal stroke,
                                        While round the arena rings the fierce applause
                                        Voluptuous, as their bubbling life?blood flows
                                    
                                    
                                        In streams of purple rain
                                        From hecatombs of slain
                                        Saluting Cæsar still with failing breath,
                                        But in their dying souls
                                        Undying hate, which rolls
                                        From land to land the avalanche of Death,
                                        That, gathering volume as it sweeps along,
                                        Pours down the Alps throng on unnumbered throng.
                                    
                                    
                                        From northern hills and plains
                                        Storm?lashed by driving rains,
                                        From moorland wastes and depths of desolate wood,
                                        
                                        From many an icebound shore,
                                        The human torrents pour,
                                        Horde following upon horde as flood on flood,
                                        Avengers of the slain they come, they come,
                                        And break in thunder on the walls of Rome.
                                    
                                    
                                        A trembling people waits
                                        As, surging through its gates,
                                        Break the fierce Goths with trumpet?blasts of doom;
                                        And many a glorious shrine
                                        Begins to flare and shine,
                                        And many a palace flames up through the gloom,
                                        Kindled like torches by relentless wrath
                                        To light the Spoiler on destruction’s path.
                                    
                                    
                                        Yea, with Rome’s ravished walls,
                                        The old world tottering falls
                                        And crumbles into ruin wide and vast;
                                        
                                        The Empire seems to rock
                                        As with an earthquake’s shock,
                                        And vassal provinces look on aghast;
                                        As realms are split and nation rent from nation,
                                        The globe seems drifting to annihilation.
                                    
                                
                                
                                
                                    V.
                                    
                                        “Peace on earth and good will unto Men!”
                                        Came the tidings borne o’er wide dominions;
                                        The glad tidings thrilled the world as
                                            when
                                        Spring comes fluttering on the west wind’s pinions,
                                        When her voice is heard
                                        Warbling though each bird,
                                        And a new?born hope
                                        Throbs through all things infinite in
                                            scope.
                                    
                                    
                                        “Peace on earth and good will!” came the
                                            word
                                        Of the Son of Man, the Man of Sorrow—
                                        But the peace turned to a flaming sword,
                                        Turned to woe and wailing on the morrow
                                        When with gibes and scorns,
                                        Crowned with barren thorns,
                                        Gashed and crucified,
                                        On the Cross the tortured Jesus died.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        And the world, once full of flower?hung
                                            shrines,
                                        Now forsakes old altars for the new,
                                        Zeus grows faint and Venus’ star declines
                                        As Jehovah glorifies the Jew,
                                        He whom—lit with awe—
                                        God?led Moses saw,
                                        Graving with firm hand
                                        In his people’s heart his Lord’s command.
                                    
                                    
                                        Holding Hells and Heavens in either hand
                                        Comes the priest and comes the wild?eyed prophet,
                                        Tells the people of some happier land,
                                        Terrifies them with a burning Tophet;
                                        Gives them creeds for bread
                                        And warm roof o’erhead,
                                        Gives for life’s delight
                                        Passports to the kingdom, spirit?bright.
                                    
                                    
                                        And the people groaning everywhere
                                        Hearken gladly to the wondrous story,
                                        
                                        How beyond this life of toil and care
                                        They shall lead a life of endless glory:
                                        Where beyond the dim
                                        Earth?mists Seraphim,
                                        Love?illumined, wait—
                                        Hierarchies of angels at heaven’s gate.
                                    
                                    
                                        Let them suffer while they live below,
                                        Bear in silence weariness and pain;
                                        For the heavier is their earthly woe,
                                        Verily the heavenlier is their gain
                                        In the mansions where
                                        Sorrow and despair,
                                        Yea, all moan shall cease
                                        With the moan of immemorial seas.
                                    
                                    
                                        And to save their threatened souls from
                                            sin,
                                        Save them from the world, the flesh, the devil,
                                        Men and Women break from bonds of kin
                                        And in cloistered cell draw bar on evil,
                                        
                                        Worship on their knees
                                        Sacred Images,
                                        And all Saints above,
                                        The Madonna, mystic Rose of love.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mystic Rose of Maiden Motherhood,
                                        Moon of Hearts immaculately mild,
                                        Beaming o’er the turbulent times and rude
                                        With the promise of her blessèd Child:
                                        Whom pale Monks adore,
                                        Pining evermore
                                        For the heaven of love
                                        Which their homesick lives are dying of.
                                    
                                    
                                        But the flame of mystical desires
                                        Turns to fury fiercer than a leopard’s,
                                        Holy fagots blaze with kindling fires
                                        As the priests, the people’s careful shepherds,
                                        In Heaven’s awful name,
                                        Set the pile on flame
                                        
                                        Where, for Conscience’ sake,
                                        Heretics burn chaunting at the stake.
                                    
                                    
                                        Subterranean secrets of the prison,
                                        Throbs of anguish in the crushing cell,
                                        Torture?chambers of the Inquisition
                                        Are the Church’s antidotes to Hell.
                                        Better rack them here,
                                        Mutilate and sear,
                                        Than their souls should go
                                        To the place of everlasting woe.
                                    
                                    
                                        And a lurid universal night,
                                        Lit by quenchless fires for unquenched sages,
                                        Thick with spectral broods that shun the
                                            light,
                                        Looms impervious o’er the stifled ages
                                        Where the blameless wise
                                        Fall a sacrifice,
                                        Fall as fell of old
                                        The unspotted firstlings of the fold.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        And the violent feud of clashing creeds
                                        Shatters empires and breaks realms asunder;
                                        Cities tremble, scepters shake like reeds
                                        At the swift bolts of the Papal thunder;
                                        Yea, the bravest quail,
                                        Cast from out the pale
                                        Of all Christendom
                                        By the dread anathemas of Rome.
                                    
                                    
                                        And like one misled by marish gleams
                                        When he hears the shrill cock’s note of warning,
                                        Europe, starting from its trance of
                                            dreams,
                                        Sees the first streak of the clear?eyed morning
                                        As it broadening stands
                                        Over ravaged lands
                                        Where mad nations are
                                        Locked in grip of fratricidal war.
                                    
                                    
                                        Castles burn upon the vine?clad knolls,
                                        Huts glow smouldering in the trampled meadows;
                                        
                                        And a hecatomb of martyred souls
                                        Fills a queenly town with wail of widows
                                        In those branded hours
                                        When red?guttering showers
                                        Splash by courts and stews
                                        To the Bells of Saint Bartholomew’s.
                                    
                                    
                                        Seed that’s sown upon the wanton wind
                                        Shall be harvested in whirlwind rages,
                                        For revenge and hate bring forth their
                                            kind,
                                        And black crime must ever be the wages
                                        Of a nation’s crime
                                        Time transmits to time,
                                        Till the score of years
                                        Is wiped out in floods of staunchless
                                            tears.
                                    
                                    
                                        Yea, the anguish in a people’s life
                                        May have eaten out its heart of pity,
                                        Bred in scenes of scarlet sin and strife,
                                        Heartless splendours of a haughty city;
                                        
                                        Dark with lowering fate,
                                        At the massive gate
                                        Of its kings it may
                                        Stand and knock with tragic hand one day.
                                    
                                    
                                        For the living tomb gives up its dead,
                                        Bastilles yawn, and chains are rent asunder,
                                        Little children now and hoary head,
                                        Man and maiden, meet in joy and wonder;
                                        Throng on radiant throng,
                                        Brave and blithe and strong,
                                        Gay with pine and palm,
                                        Fill fair France with freedom’s
                                            thunder?psalm.
                                    
                                    
                                        Free and equal—rid of king and priest—
                                        The rapt nation bids each neighbour nation
                                        To partake the sacramental feast
                                        And communion of the Federation:
                                        And electrified
                                        Masses, far and wide,
                                        
                                        Thrill to hope and start
                                        Vibrating as with one common heart.
                                    
                                    
                                        From the perfumed South of amorous France
                                        With her wreath of orange bloom and myrtle,
                                        From old wizard woods of lost Romance
                                        Soft with wail of wind and voice of turtle,
                                        From the roaring sea
                                        Of grey Normandy,
                                        And the rich champaigns
                                        Where the vine gads o’er Burgundian
                                            plains;
                                    
                                    
                                        From the banks of the blue arrowy Rhone,
                                        And from many a Western promontory,
                                        From volcanic crags of cloven stone
                                        Crowned with castles ivy?green in story;
                                        From gay Gascon coasts
                                        March fraternal hosts,
                                        Equal hosts and free,
                                        Pilgrims to the shrine of liberty.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        But king calls on king in wild alarms,
                                        Troops march threatening through the vales and
                                            passes,
                                        Barefoot Faubourgs at the cry to arms
                                        On the frontier hurl their desperate masses:
                                        The deep tocsin’s boom
                                        Fills the streets with gloom,
                                        And with iron hand
                                        The red Terror guillotines the land.
                                    
                                    
                                        For the Furies of the sanguine past
                                        Chase fair Freedom, struggling torn and baffled,
                                        Till infuriate—turned to bay at last—
                                        Rolled promiscuous on the common scaffold,
                                        Vengeful she shall smite
                                        A Queen’s head bleached white,
                                        And a courtesan’s
                                        Whose light hands once held the reins of
                                            France.
                                        
                                        She shall smite and spare not—yea, her
                                            own,
                                        Her fair sons so pure from all pollution,
                                        With their guiltless life?blood must
                                            atone
                                        To the goddess of the Revolution;
                                        Dying with a song
                                        On their lips, her young
                                        Ardent children end,
                                        Meeting death even as one meets a friend.
                                    
                                    
                                        And her daughter, in heroic shame,
                                        Turned to Freedom’s Moloch statue, crying:
                                        “Liberty, what crimes done in thy name!”
                                        Spake, and with her Freedom’s self seemed dying
                                        As she bleeding lay
                                        ’Neath Napoleon’s sway:
                                        Europe heard her knell
                                        When on Waterloo the Empire fell.
                                    
                                
                                
                                
                                    VI.
                                    
                                        Woe, woe to Man and all his hapless brood!
                                        No rest for him, no peace is to be found;
                                        He may have tamed wild beasts and made the
                                            ground
                                        Yield corn and wine and every kind of food;
                                        He may have turned the ocean to his
                                            steed,
                                        Tutored the lightning’s elemental speed
                                        To flash his thought from Ætna to Atlantic;
                                        He may have weighed the stars and spanned the
                                            stream,
                                        And trained the fiery force of panting
                                            steam
                                        To whirl him o’er vast steppes and heights gigantic:
                                        But the storm?lashed world of feeling—
                                        Love, the fount of tears unsealing,
                                        Choruses of passion pealing—
                                        
                                        Lust, ambition, hatred, awe,
                                        Clashing loudly with the law,
                                        But the phantasms of the mind
                                        Who shall master, yea, who bind!
                                    
                                    
                                        What help is there without, what hope within
                                        Of rescue from the immemorial strife?
                                        What will redeem him from the spasm of
                                            life,
                                        With all its devious ways of shame and sin?
                                        What will redeem him from ancestral
                                            greeds,
                                        Grey legacies of hate and hoar misdeeds,
                                        Which from the guilty past Man doth inherit—
                                        The past that is bound up with him, and
                                            part
                                        Of the pulsations of his inmost heart,
                                        And of the vital motions of his spirit?
                                        Ages mazed in tortuous errors,
                                        Ghostly fears, and haunting terrors,
                                        Minds bewitched that served as mirrors
                                        For the foulest fancies bred
                                        In a fasting hermit’s head,
                                        
                                        Such as cast a sickly blight
                                        On all shapes of life and light.
                                    
                                    
                                        Yea, panting and pursued and stung and driven,
                                        The soul of Man flies on in deep
                                            distress,
                                        As once across the world’s harsh
                                            wilderness
                                        Latona fled, chased by the Queen of heaven;
                                        Flying across the homeless Universe
                                        From the inveterate stroke of Juno’s
                                            curse;
                                        On whom even mother earth closed all her portals,
                                        Refusing shelter in her cooing bowers,
                                        Or rest upon her velvet couch of flowers,
                                        To the most weary of all weary mortals.
                                        Within whose earth?encumbered form,
                                        Like two fair stars entwined in storm,
                                        Or wings astir within the worm,
                                        Feeling out for light and air,
                                        Struggled that celestial pair,
                                        Phœbus of unerring bow,
                                        And chaste Dian fair as snow.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        Ah, who will harbour her? Ah, who will save
                                        The fugitive from pangs that rack and
                                            tear;
                                        Who, finding rest nor refuge anywhere,
                                        Seems doomed to be her unborn offspring’s grave;
                                        The seed of Jove, murdered before their
                                            birth—
                                        Did not the sea, more merciful than
                                            earth,
                                        Bid Delos stand—that wandering isle of Ocean—
                                        Stand motionless upon the moving foam,
                                        To be the exile’s wave?encircled home,
                                        And lull her pains with leaves in drowsy motion,
                                        Where the soft?boughed olive sighing
                                        Bends above the woman lying
                                        And in spasms of anguish crying,
                                        Shuddering through her mortal frame,
                                        As from dust is struck the flame
                                        Which shall henceforth beam sublime
                                        Through the firmament of Time?
                                    
                                    
                                        Oh, balmy Island on the brine,
                                        Harbour of refuge on the tumbling seas,
                                        
                                        The fabulous bowers of the Hesperides
                                        Ne’er bore such blooming gold as glows in thine:
                                        Thou green Oasis on the tides of Time
                                        Where no rude blast disturbs the azure
                                            clime;
                                        Thou Paradise whence man can ne’er be driven,
                                        Where, severed from the world?clang and the
                                            roar,
                                        Still in the flesh he yet may reach that
                                            shore
                                        Where want is not, and, like the dew from heaven,
                                        There drops upon the fevered soul
                                        The balm of Thought’s divine control
                                        And rapt absorption in the whole:
                                        Delivery in the realm of art
                                        Of the world?racked human heart—
                                        Forms and hues and sounds that make
                                        Life grow lovelier for their sake.
                                    
                                    
                                        By sheer persistence, strenuous and slow,
                                        The marble yields and, line by flowing
                                            line
                                        And curve by curve, begins to swell and
                                            shine
                                        Beneath the ring of each far?sighted blow:
                                        
                                        Until the formless block obeys the hand,
                                        And at the mastering mind’s supreme
                                            command
                                        Takes form and radiates from each limb and feature
                                        Such beauty as ne’er bloomed in mortal
                                            mould,
                                        Whose face, out?smiling centuries, shall
                                            hold
                                        Perfection’s mirror up to ’prentice nature.
                                        Not from out voluptuous ocean
                                        Venus rose in balanced motion,
                                        Goddess of all bland emotion;
                                        But she leaped a shape of light,
                                        Radiating love’s delight,
                                        From the sculptor’s brain to be
                                        Sphered in immortality.
                                    
                                    
                                        New spirit?yearnings for a heavenlier mood
                                        Call for a love more pitiful and tender,
                                        And ’neath the painter’s touch blooms forth
                                            in splendour
                                        The image of transfigured motherhood.
                                        
                                        All hopes of all glad women who have
                                            smiled
                                        In adoration on their first?born child
                                        Here smile through one glad woman made immortal;
                                        All tears of all sad women through whose
                                            heart
                                        Has pierced the edge of sorrow’s sevenfold
                                            dart
                                        Lie weeping with her at death’s dolorous portal.
                                        For in married hues whose splendour
                                        Bodies forth the gloom and grandeur
                                        Of life’s pageant, tragic, tender,
                                        Common things transfigured flush
                                        By the magic of the brush,
                                        As when sun?touched raindrops glow,
                                        Blent in one harmonious bow.
                                    
                                    
                                        But see, he comes, Lord of life’s changeful shows,
                                        To whom the ways of Nature are laid bare,
                                        Who looks on heaven and makes the heavens
                                            more fair,
                                        And adds new sweetness to the perfumed rose;
                                        
                                        Who can unseal the heart with all its tears,
                                        Marshal loves, hates, hopes, sorrows, joys, and fears
                                        In quick procession o’er the passive pages;
                                        Who has given tongue to silent generations
                                        And wings to thought, so that long?mouldered nations
                                        May call to nations o’er the abyss of ages:
                                        The poet, in whose shaping brain
                                        Life is created o’er again
                                        With loftier raptures, loftier pain;
                                        Whose mighty potencies of verse
                                        Move through the plastic Universe,
                                        And fashion to their strenuous will
                                        The world that is creating still.
                                    
                                    
                                        Do you hear it, do you hear it
                                        Soaring up to heaven, or somewhere near
                                            it?
                                        From the depths of life upheaving,
                                        Clouds of earth and sorrow cleaving,
                                        From despair and death retrieving,
                                        
                                        All triumphant blasts of sound
                                        Lift you at one rhythmic bound
                                        From the thraldom of the ground.
                                    
                                    
                                        * * * * * * 
                                        All the sweetness which the glowing
                                        Violets waft to west winds blowing,
                                        All the burning love?notes aching,
                                        Rills and thrills of rapture shaking
                                        Through the hearts that throb to breaking
                                        Of the little nightingales;
                                        Mellow murmuring waters streaming
                                        Lakeward in long silver trails,
                                        Crooning low while earth lies dreaming
                                        To the moonlight?tangled vales;
                                        Swish of rain on half?blown roses
                                        Hoarding close their rich perfume,
                                        Which the summer dawn uncloses
                                        Sparkling in their morning bloom;
                                        Convent peals o’er pastoral meadows,
                                        Swinging through hay?scented air
                                        
                                        When the velvet?footed shadows
                                        Call the hind to evening prayer.
                                        Yea, all notes of woods and highlands;
                                        Sea?fowls’ screech round sphinx?like
                                            islands
                                        Couched among the Hebrides;
                                        Cuckoo calls through April showers,
                                        When the green fields froth with flowers
                                        And with bloom the orchard trees.
                                        Boom of surges with their hollow
                                        Refluent shock from cave to cave,
                                        As the maddening spring tides follow
                                        Moonstruck reeling wave o’er wave.
                                        Yea, all rhythms of air and ocean
                                        Married to the heart’s emotion,
                                        To the intervolved emotion
                                        Of the heart for ever turning
                                        In a whirl of bliss and pain,
                                        Blending in symphonious strain
                                        All the vague, unearthly yearning
                                        Of the visionary brain.
                                        * * * * * * 
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        All life’s discords sweetly blending,
                                        Heights on heights of being ascending,
                                        Harmonies of confluent sound
                                        Lift you at one rhythmic bound
                                        From the thraldom of the ground;
                                        Loosen all your bonds of birth,
                                        Clogs of sense and weights of earth,
                                        Bear you in angelic legions
                                        High above terrestrial regions
                                        Into ampler ether, where
                                        Spirits breathe a finer air,
                                        Where upon world altitudes
                                        God?intoxicated moods
                                        Fill you with beatitudes;
                                        Till no longer cramped and bound
                                        By the narrow human round,
                                        All the body’s barriers slide,
                                        Which with cold obstruction hide
                                        The supreme, undying, sole
                                        Spirit struggling though the whole,
                                        
                                        And no more a thing apart
                                        From the universal heart
                                        Liberated by the grace
                                        Of man’s genius for a space,
                                        Human lives dissolve, enlace
                                        In a flaming world embrace.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                            
                                A SYMBOL.
                                
                                    HURRYING for ever in their restless flight
                                    The generations of earth’s teeming womb
                                    Rise into being and lapse into the tomb
                                    Like transient bubbles sparkling in the light;
                                    They sink in quick succession out of sight
                                    Into the thick insuperable gloom
                                    Our futile lives in flashing by illume—
                                    Lightning which mocks the darkness of the night.
                                
                                
                                    Nay—but consider, though we change and die,
                                    If men must pass shall Man not still remain?
                                    As the unnumbered drops of summer rain
                                    Whose changing particles unchanged on high,
                                    Fixed, in perpetual motion, yet maintain
                                    The mystic bow emblazoned on the sky.
                                
                            
                            
                            
                                TIME’S SHADOW.
                                
                                    THY life, O Man, in this brief moment lies:
                                    Time’s narrow bridge whereon we darkling
                                        stand,
                                    With an infinitude on either hand
                                    Receding luminously from our eyes.
                                    Lo, there thy Past’s forsaken Paradise
                                    Subsideth like some visionary strand,
                                    While glimmering faint, the Future’s promised
                                        land,
                                    Illusive from the abyss, seems fain to rise.
                                
                                
                                    This hour alone Hope’s broken pledges mar,
                                    And Joy now gleams before, now in our rear,
                                    Like mirage mocking in some waste afar,
                                    Dissolving into air as we draw near.
                                    Beyond our steps the path is sunny?clear,
                                    The shadow lying only where we are.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                            Part II.
                            The ASCENT OF MAN.
                            Part II.
                            
                            
                                “Love is for ever poor, and so far from being delicate and
                                    beautiful, as mankind imagined, he is squalid and withered...
                                    homeless and unsandalled; he sleeps without covering before the
                                    doors, and in the unsheltered streets.”
                                —Plato.
                            
                            
                            
                                THE PILGRIM SOUL.
                                
                                    THROUGH the winding mazes of windy streets
                                    Blindly I hurried I knew not whither,
                                    Through the dim?lit ways of the brain thus fleets
                                
                                
                                    A fluttering dream driven hither and thither.—
                                    The fitful flare of the moon fled fast,
                                    Like a sickly smile now seeming to wither,
                                
                                
                                    Now dark like a scowl in the hurrying blast
                                    As ominous shadows swept over the roofs
                                    Where white as a ghost the scared moonlight had passed.
                                
                                
                                    Curses came mingled with wails and reproofs,
                                    With doors banging to and the crashing of glass,
                                    With the baying of dogs and the clatter of hoofs,
                                
                                
                                
                                    With the rust of the river as, huddling its mass
                                    Of weltering water towards the deep ocean,
                                    ’Neath many?arched bridges its eddies did pass.
                                
                                
                                    A hubbub of voices in savage commotion
                                    Was mixed with the storm in a chaos of sound,
                                    And thrilled as with ague in shuddering emotion
                                
                                
                                    I fled as the hunted hare flees from the hound.
                                    Past churches whose bells were tumultuously ringing
                                    The year in, and clashing in concord around;
                                
                                
                                    Past the deaf walls of dungeons whose curses seemed
                                        clinging
                                    To the tempest that shivered and shrieked in amazement;
                                    Past brightly lit mansions whence music and singing
                                
                                
                                
                                    Came borne like a scent through the close?curtained
                                        casement,
                                    To vaults in whose shadow wild outcasts were hiding
                                    Their misery deep in the gloom of the basement.
                                
                                
                                    By vociferous taverns where the women were biding
                                    With features all withered, distorted, aghast;
                                    Some sullenly silent, some brutally chiding,
                                
                                
                                    Some reeling away into gloom as I passed
                                    On, on, through lamp?lighted and fountain?filled places,
                                    Where throned in rich temples, resplendent and vast,
                                
                                
                                    The Lord of the City is deafened with praises
                                    As worshipping multitudes kneel as of old;
                                    Nor care for the crowds of cadaverous faces,
                                
                                
                                
                                    The men that are marred and the maids that are sold—
                                    Inarticulate masses promiscuously jumbled
                                    And crushed ’neath their Juggernaut idol of gold.
                                
                                
                                    Lost lives of great cities bespattered and tumbled,
                                    Black rags the rain soaks, the wind whips like a knout,
                                    Were crouched in the streets there, and o’er them nigh
                                        stumbled
                                
                                
                                    A swarm of light maids as they tripped to some rout.
                                    The silk of their raiment voluptuously hisses
                                    And flaps o’er the flags as loud laughing they flout
                                
                                
                                    The wine?maddened men they ne’er satiate with kisses
                                    For the pearls and the diamonds that make them more fair,
                                    For the flash of large jewels that fire them with
                                        blisses,
                                
                                
                                
                                    For the glitter in the gold of their hair.
                                    They smiled and the cozened, their bold eyes shone
                                        brightly
                                    And lightened with laughter, as, lit by the flare
                                
                                
                                    Of the wind?fretted gas?lamps, they footed it lightly,
                                    Or, closely enlacing and bowered in gloom,
                                    With mouth pressed to hot mouth, their parched lips drain
                                        nightly
                                
                                
                                    The wine?cup of pleasure red?sealing their doom.
                                    Brief lives like bright rockets which, aridly glowing,
                                    Fall burnt out to ashes and reel to the tomb.
                                
                                
                                    On, on, loud and louder the rough night was blowing,
                                    Shrill singing was mixed with strange cries of despair;
                                    And high overhead the black sky, redly glowing,
                                
                                
                                
                                    Loomed over the city one ominous glare,
                                    As dark yawning funnels from foul throats for ever
                                    Belched smoke grimly flaming, which outraged the air.
                                
                                
                                    On, on, by long quays where the lamps in the river
                                    Were writhing like serpents that hiss ere they drown,
                                    And poplars with palsy seems coldly to shiver,
                                
                                
                                    On, on, to the bare desert end of the town.
                                    When lo! the wind stopped like a heart that’s ceased
                                        beating,
                                    And nought but the waters, white foaming and brown,
                                
                                
                                    Were heard as to seaward their currents went fleeting.
                                    But hark! o’er the lull breaks a desolate moan,
                                    Like a little lost lamb’s that is timidly bleating
                                
                                
                                
                                    When, strayed from the shepherd, it staggers alone
                                    By tracks which the mountain streams shake with their
                                        thunder,
                                    Where death seems to gape from each boulder and stone.
                                
                                
                                    I turned to the murmur: the clouds swept asunder
                                    And wheeled like white sea?gulls around the white moon;
                                    And the moon, like a white maid, looked down in mute
                                        wonder
                                
                                
                                    On a boy whose wan eyelids were closed as in swoon.
                                    Half nude on the ground he lay, wasted and chilly,
                                    And torn as with thorns and sharp brambles of June;
                                
                                
                                    His hair, like a flame which at twilight burns stilly,
                                    In a halo of light round his temples was blown,
                                    And his tears fell like rain on a storm?stricken lily
                                
                                
                                
                                    Where he lay on the cold ground, abandoned, alone.
                                    With heart moved towards him in wondering pity,
                                    I tenderly seized his thin hand with my own:
                                
                                
                                    Crying, “Child, say how cam’st thou so far from the city?
                                    How cam’st thou alone in such pitiful plight,
                                    All blood?stained thy feet, with rags squalid and gritty,
                                
                                
                                    A waif by the wayside, unhoused in the night?”
                                    Then rose he and lifted the bright locks, storm driven,
                                    Which flamed round his forehead and clouded his sight,
                                
                                
                                    And mournful as meres on a moorland at even
                                    His blue eyes flashed wildly through tears as they fell.
                                    Strange eyes full of horror, yet fuller of heaven,
                                
                                
                                
                                    Like eyes that from heaven have looked upon hell.
                                    The eyes of an angel whose depths show where, burning
                                    And lost in the pit, toss the angels that fell.
                                
                                
                                    “Ah,” wailed he in tones full of agonized yearning,
                                    Like the plaintive lament of a sickening dove
                                    On a surf?beaten shore, whence it sees past returning
                                
                                
                                    The wings of the wild flock fast fading above,
                                    As the melt on the sky?line like foam?flakes in motion:
                                    So sadly he wailed, “I am Love! I am Love!
                                
                                
                                    “Behold me cast out as weed spurned of the ocean,
                                    Half nude on the bare ground, and covered with scars
                                    I perish of cold here;” and, choked with emotion,
                                
                                
                                
                                    Gave a sob: at the low sob a shower of stars
                                    Broke shuddering from heaven, pale flaming, and fell
                                    Where the mid?city roared as with rumours of wars.
                                
                                
                                    “Be these God’s tears?” I cried, as my tears ’gan to
                                        well.
                                    “Ah, Love, I have sought thee in temples and towers,
                                    In shrines where men pray, and in marts where they sell;
                                
                                
                                    “In tapestried chambers made tropic with flowers,
                                    Where amber?haired women, soft breathing of spice,
                                    Lay languidly lapped in the gold?dropping showers
                                
                                
                                    “Which gladdened and maddened their amorous eyes.
                                    I have looked for thee vainly in churches where beaming
                                    The Saints glowed embalmed in a prism of dyes,
                                
                                
                                
                                    
                                            “
                                            ‘
                                        Where wave over wave the rapt music went
                                        streaming
                                    With breakers of sound in full anthems elate.
                                    I have asked, but none knew thee, or knew but thy
                                        seeming;
                                
                                
                                    “A mask in thy likeness on high seats of state;
                                    And they bound it with gold, and they crowned it with
                                        glory,
                                    This thing they called love, which was bond slave to
                                        hate.
                                
                                
                                    “And they bowed down before it with brown heads and
                                        hoary,
                                    They worshipped it nightly, loud hymning its praise,
                                    While out in the cold blast, none heeding its story,
                                
                                
                                    “Love staggers, an outcast, with lust in its place.”
                                    Love shivered and sighed like a reed that is shaken,
                                    And lifting his hunger?nipped face to my face:
                                
                                
                                
                                    “Nay, if of the world I must needs die forsaken,
                                    Say thou wilt not leave me to dearth and despair.
                                    To they heart, to thy home, let the exile be taken,
                                
                                
                                    “And feed me and shelter—“” “Where, outcast, ah, where?
                                    Like thee I am homeless and spurned of all mortals;
                                    The House of my fathers yawns wide to the air.
                                
                                
                                    “Stalks desolation across the void portals,
                                    Hope lies aghast on the ruinous floor,
                                    The halls that were thronged once with star?browed
                                        immortals,
                                
                                
                                    “With gods statue?still o’er the world?whirr and roar,
                                    With fauns of the forest and nymphs of the river,
                                    Are cleft as if lightning had struck to their core.
                                
                                
                                
                                    “The luminous ceilings, where soaring for ever
                                    Dim hosts of plumed angles smoked up to the sky,
                                    With God?litten faces that yearned to the giver
                                
                                
                                    “As vapours of morning the sun draws on high,
                                    Now ravaged with rain hear the hollow winds whistle
                                    Through rifts in the rafters which echo their cry.
                                
                                
                                    “Blest walls that were vowed to the Virgin now bristle
                                    With weeds of sick scarlet and plague?spotted moss,
                                    And stained on the ground, choked with thorn and rank
                                        thistle,
                                
                                
                                    “Rots a worm?eaten Christ on a mouldering Cross.
                                    From the House of my fathers, distraught, broken?hearted,
                                    With a pang of immense, irredeemable loss,
                                
                                
                                
                                    “On my wearying pilgrimage blindly I started
                                    To seek thee, oh Love, in high places and low,
                                    And instead of the glories for ever departed,
                                
                                
                                    “To warm my starved life in thy mightier glow.
                                    For I deemed thee a Presence ringed round with all
                                        splendour,
                                    With a sceptre in hand and a crown on thy brow;
                                
                                
                                    “And, behold, thou art helpless—most helpless to tender
                                    Thy service to others, who needest their care.
                                    Yea, now that I find thee a weak child and slender,
                                
                                
                                    “Exposed to the blast of the merciless air,
                                    Like a lamb that is shorn, like a leaf that is shaken,
                                    What, Love, now is left but to die in despair?
                                
                                
                                
                                    “For Death is the mother of all the forsaken,
                                    The grave a strait bed where she rocks them to rest,
                                    And sleep, from whose silence they never shall waken,
                                
                                
                                    “The balm of oblivion she sheds on their breast.”
                                    Then I seized him and led to the brink of the river,
                                    Where two storm?beaten seagulls were fluttering west,
                                
                                
                                    And the lamplight in drowning seemed coldly to shiver,
                                    And clasping Love close for the leap from on high,
                                    Said—“Let us go hence, Love; go home, Love, for ever;
                                
                                
                                    “For life casts us forth, and Man dooms us to die.”
                                    As if stung by a snake the Child shuddered and started,
                                    And clung to me close with a passionate cry:
                                
                                
                                
                                    “Stay with me, stay with me, poor, broken?hearted;
                                    Pain, if not pleasure, we two will divide;
                                    Though with the sins of the world I have smarted,
                                
                                
                                    “Though with the shame of the world thou art dyed,
                                    Weak as I am, on thy breast I’ll recover,
                                    Worn as thou art, thou shalt bloom as my bride:
                                
                                
                                    “Bloom as the flower of the World for the lover
                                    Whom thou hast found in a lost little Child.”
                                    And as he kissed my lips over and over—
                                
                                
                                    Child now, or Man, was it who thus beguiled?—
                                    Even as I looked on him, Love, waxing slowly,
                                    Grew as a little cloud, floating enisled,
                                
                                
                                    Which spreads out aloft in the blue sky till solely
                                    It fills the deep ether tremendous in height,
                                    With far?flashing snow?peaks and pinnacles wholly
                                
                                
                                
                                    Invisible, vanishing light within light.
                                    So changing waxed Love—till he towered before me,
                                    Outgrowing my lost gods in stature and might.
                                
                                
                                    As he grew, as he drew me, a great awe came o’er me,
                                    And stammering, I shook as I questioned his name;
                                    But gently bowed o’er me, he soothèd and bore me,
                                
                                
                                    Yea, bore me once again to the haunts whence I came,
                                    By dark ways and dreary, by rough roads and gritty,
                                    To the penfolds of sin, to the purlieus of shame.
                                
                                
                                    And lo, as we went through the woe?clouded city,
                                    Where women bring forth and men labour in vain,
                                    Weak Love grew so great in his passion of pity
                                    That all who beheld him were born once again.
                                
                            
                            
                            
                                SAVING LOVE.
                                
                                    WOULD we but love what will not pass away!
                                    The sun that on each morning shines as clear
                                    As when it rose first on the world’s first
                                        year;
                                    The fresh green leaves that rustle on the spray.
                                    The sun will shine, the leaves will be as gay
                                    When graves are full of all our hearts held
                                        dear,
                                    When not a soul of those who loved us here,
                                    Not one, is left us—creatures of decay.
                                
                                
                                    Yea, love the Abiding in the Universe
                                    Which was before, and will be after us.
                                    Nor yet for ever hanker and vainly cry
                                    For human love—the beings that change or die;
                                    Die—change—forget: to care so is a curse,
                                    Yet cursed we’ll be rather than not care thus.
                                
                            
                            
                            
                                NIRVANA.
                                
                                    DIVEST thyself, O Soul, of vain desire!
                                    Bid hope farewell, dismiss all coward fears;
                                    Take leave of empty laughter, emptier tears,
                                    And quench, for ever quench, the wasting fire
                                    Wherein this heart, as in a funeral pyre,
                                    Aye burns, yet is consumed not. Years on
                                        years
                                    Moaning with memories in thy maddened ears—
                                    Let at thy word, like refluent waves, retire.
                                
                                
                                    Enter thy soul’s vast realm as Sovereign Lord,
                                    And, like that angel with the flaming sword,
                                    Wave off life’s clinging hands. Then chains will
                                        fall
                                    From the poor slave of self’s hard tyranny—
                                    And Thou, a ripple rounded by the sea,
                                    In rapture lost be lapped within the All.
                                
                            
                            
                            
                                MOTHERHOOD.
                                
                                    FROM out the font of being, undefiled,
                                    A life hath been upheaved with struggle and
                                        pain;
                                    Safe in her arms a mother holds again
                                    That dearest miracle—a new?born child.
                                    To moans of anguish terrible and wild—
                                    As shrieks the night?wind through an ill?shut
                                        pane—
                                    Pure heaven succeeds; and after fiery strain
                                    Victorious woman smiles serenely mild.
                                
                                
                                    Yea, shall she not rejoice, shall not her frame
                                    Thrill with a mystic rapture! At this birth,
                                    The soul now kindled by her vital flame
                                    May it not prove a gift of priceless worth?
                                    Some saviour of his kind whose starry fame
                                     Shall bring a brightness to the darkened
                                        earth.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                            Part III.
                            THE ASCENT OF MAN.
                            Part III.
                            
                            
                                
                                    “Our spirits have climbed high
                                    By reason of the passion of our grief,—
                                    And from the top of sense, looked over sense
                                    To the significance and heart of things
                                    Rather than things themselves.”
                                
                                E.B. Browning.
                            
                            
                            
                                THE LEADING OF SORROW.
                                
                                    THROUGH a twilight land, a moaning region,
                                    Thick with sighs that shook the trembling
                                        air,
                                    Land of shadows whose dim crew was legion,
                                    Lost I hurried, hunted by despair.
                                    Quailed my heart like an expiring splendour,
                                    Fitful flicker of a faltering fire,
                                    Smitten chords which tempest?stricken render
                                    Rhythms of anguish from a breaking lyre.
                                
                                
                                    Love had left me in a land of shadows,
                                    Lonely on the ruins of delight,
                                    And I grieved with tearless grief of widows,
                                    Moaned as orphans homeless in the night.
                                    Love had left me knocking at Death’s portal—
                                    Shone his star and vanished from my sky—
                                    
                                    And I cried: “Since Love, even Love, is mortal,
                                    Take, unmake, and break me; let me die.”
                                
                                
                                    Then, the twilight’s grisly veils dividing,
                                    Phantom?like there stole one o’er the plain,
                                    Wavering mists for ever round it gliding
                                    Hid the face I strove to scan in vain.
                                    Spake the veiled one: “Solitary weeper,
                                    ’Mid the myriad mourners thou’rt but one:
                                    Come, and thou shalt see the awful reaper,
                                    Evil, reaping all beneath the sun.”
                                
                                
                                    On my hand the clay?cold hand did fasten
                                    As it murmured—“Up and follow me;
                                    O’er the thickly peopled earth we’ll hasten,
                                    Yet more thickly packed with misery.”
                                    And I followed: ever in the shadow
                                    Of that looming form I fared along;
                                    Now o’er mountains, now through wood and meadow,
                                    Or through cities with their surging throng.
                                
                                
                                
                                    With none other for a friend or fellow
                                    Those relentless footsteps were my guide
                                    To the sea?caves echoing with the hollow
                                    Immemorial moaning of the tide.
                                    Laughed the sunlight on the living ocean,
                                    Danced and rocked itself upon the spray,
                                    And its shivered beams in twinkling motion
                                    Gleamed like star?motes in the Milky Way.
                                
                                
                                    Lo, beneath those waters surging, flowing,
                                    I beheld the Deep’s fantastic bowers;
                                    Shapes which seemed alive and yet were growing
                                    On their stalks like animated flowers.
                                    Sentient flowers which seemed to glow and glimmer
                                    Soft as ocean blush of Indian shells,
                                    White as foam?drift in the moony shimmer
                                    Of those sea?lit, wave?pavilioned dells.
                                
                                
                                    Yet even here, as in the fire?eyed panther,
                                    In disguise the eternal hunger lay,
                                    
                                    For each feathery, velvet?tufted anther
                                    Lay in ambush waiting for its prey.
                                    Tiniest jewelled fish that flashed like lightning,
                                    Blindly drawn, came darting through the wave,
                                    When, a stifling sack above them tightening,
                                    Closed the ocean?blossom’s living grave.
                                
                                
                                    Now we fared through forest glooms primeval
                                    Through whose leaves the light but rarely
                                        shone,
                                    Where the buttressed tree?trunks looked coeval
                                    With the time?worn, ocean?fretted stone;
                                    Where, from stem to stem their tendrils looping,
                                    Coiled the lithe lianas fold on fold,
                                    Or, in cataracts of verdure drooping,
                                    From on high their billowy leafage rolled.
                                
                                
                                    Where beneath the dusky woodland cover,
                                    While the noon?hush holds all living things,
                                    
                                    Butterflies of tropic splendour hover
                                    In a maze of rainbow?coloured wings:
                                    Some like stars light up their own green heaven
                                    Some are spangled like a golden toy,
                                    Or like flowers from their foliage driven
                                    In the fiery ecstasy of joy.
                                
                                
                                    But, the forest slumber rudely breaking,
                                    Through the silence rings a piercing yell;
                                    At the cry unnumbered beasts, awaking,
                                    With their howls the loud confusion swell.
                                    ’Tis the cry of some frail creature panting
                                    In the tiger’s lacerating grip;
                                    In its flesh carnivorous teeth implanting,
                                    While the blood smokes round his wrinkled
                                        lip.
                                
                                
                                    ’Tis the scream some bird in terror utters,
                                    With its wings weighed down by leaden fears,
                                    As from bough to downward bough it flutters
                                    Where the snake its glistening crest uprears:
                                    
                                    Eyes of sluggish greed through rank weeds stealing,
                                    Breath whose venomous fumes mount through the
                                        air,
                                    Till benumbed the helpless victim, reeling,
                                    Drops convulsed into the reptile snare.
                                
                                
                                    Now we fared o’er sweltering wastes whose steaming
                                    Clouds of tawny sand the wanderer blind.
                                    Herds of horses with their long manes streaming
                                    Snorted thirstily against the wind;
                                    O’er the waste they scoured in shadowy numbers,
                                    Gasped for springs their raging thirst to cool, 
                                    And, like sick men mocked in fevered slumbers,
                                    Stoop to drink—and find a phantom pool.
                                
                                
                                    What of antelopes crunched by the leopard?
                                    What if hounds run down the timid hare?
                                    What though sheep, strayed from the faithful shepherd,
                                    Perish helpless in the lion’s lair?
                                    
                                    The all?seeing sun shines on unheeding,
                                    In the night shines the unruffled moon,
                                    Though on earth brute myriads, preying, bleeding,
                                    Put creation harshly out of tune.
                                
                                
                                    Cried I, turning to the shrouded figure—
                                    “Oh, in mercy veil this cruel strife!
                                    Sanguinary orgies which disfigure
                                    The green ways of labyrinthine life.
                                    From the needs and greeds of primal passion,
                                    From the serpent’s track and lion’s den,
                                    To the world our human hands did fashion,
                                    Lead me to the kindly haunts of men.”
                                
                                
                                    And through fields of corn we passed together,
                                    Orange golden in the brooding heat,
                                    Where brown reapers in the harvest weather
                                    Cut ripe swathes of downward rustling wheat.
                                    In the orchards dangling red and yellow,
                                    Clustered fruit weighed down the bending
                                        sprays;
                                    
                                    On a hundred hills the vines grew mellow
                                    In the warmth of fostering autumn days.
                                
                                
                                    Through the air the shrilly twittering swallows
                                    Flashed their nimble shadows on the leas;
                                    Red?flecked cows were glassed in golden shallows,
                                    Purple clover hummed with restless bees.
                                    Herdsmen drove the cattle from the mountain,
                                    To the fold the shepherd drove his flocks,
                                    Village girls drew water from the fountain,
                                    Village yokels piled the full?eared shocks.
                                
                                
                                    From the white town dozing in the valley,
                                    Round its vast Cathedral’s solemn shade,
                                    Citizens strolled down the walnut alley
                                    Where youth courted and glad childhood
                                        played.
                                    “Peace on earth,” I murmured; “let us linger—
                                    Here the wage of life seems good at least:”
                                    As I spake the veiled One raised a finger
                                    Where the moon broke flowering in the east.
                                    
                                    Faintly muttering from deep mountain ranges,
                                    Muffled sounds rose hoarsely on the night,
                                    As the crash of foundering avalanches
                                    Wakes hoarse echoes in each Alpine height.
                                    Near and nearer sounds the roaring—thunder,
                                    Mortal thunder, crashes through the vale;
                                    Lightning flash of muskets breaks from under
                                    Groves once haunted by the nightingale.
                                
                                
                                    Men clutch madly at each weapon—women,
                                    Children crouch in cellars, under roofs,
                                    For the town is circled by their foemen—
                                    Shakes the ground with clang of trampling
                                        hoofs.
                                    Shot on shot the volleys hiss and rattle,
                                    Shrilly whistling fly the murderous balls,
                                    Fiercely roars the tumult of the battle
                                    Round the hard?contested, dear?bought walls.
                                
                                
                                    Horror, horror! The fair town is burning,
                                    Flames burst forth, wild sparks and ashes
                                        fly;
                                    
                                    With her children’s blood the green earth’s turning
                                    Blood?red—blood?red, too, the cloud?winged
                                        sky.
                                    Crackling flare the streets: from the lone steeple
                                    The great clock booms forth its ancient
                                        chime,
                                    And its dolorous quarters warn the people
                                    Of the conquering troops that march with
                                        time.
                                
                                
                                    Fallen lies the fair old town, its houses
                                    Charred and ruined gape in smoking heaps;
                                    Here with shouts a ruffian band carouses,
                                    There an outraged woman vainly weeps.
                                    In the fields where the ripe corn lies mangled,
                                    Where the wounded groan beneath the dead,
                                    Friend or foe, now helplessly entangled,
                                     Stain red poppies with a guiltier red.
                                
                                
                                    There the dog howls o’er his perished master,
                                    There the crow comes circling from afar;
                                    All vile things that batten on disaster
                                    Follow feasting in the wake of war.
                                    
                                    Famine follows—what they ploughed and planted
                                    The unhappy peasants shall not reap;
                                    Sickening of strange meats and fever haunted,
                                    To their graves they prematurely creep.
                                
                                
                                    “Hence”—I cried in unavailing pity—
                                    “Let us flee these scenes of monstrous
                                        strife,
                                    Seek the pale of some imperial city
                                    Where the law rules starlike o’er man’s
                                        life.”
                                    Straightway floating o’er blue sea and river,
                                    We were plunged into a roaring cloud,
                                    Wherethrough lamps in ague fits did shiver
                                    O’er the surging multitudinous crowd.
                                
                                
                                    Piles of stone, their cliff?like walls uprearing,
                                    Flashed in luminous lines along the night;
                                    Jets of flame, spasmodically flaring,
                                    Splashed black pavements with a sickly light;
                                    Fabulous gems shone here, and glowing coral,
                                    Shimmering stuffs from many an Eastern loom,
                                    
                                    And vast piles of tropic fruits and floral
                                    Marvels seemed to mock November’s gloom.
                                
                                
                                    But what prowls near princely mart and dwelling,
                                    Whence through many a thundering thorough?
                                        fare
                                    Rich folk roll on cushions softly swelling
                                    To the week?day feast and Sunday prayer?
                                    Yea, who prowl there, hunger?nipped and pallid,
                                    Breathing nightmares limned upon the gloom?
                                    ’Tis but human rubbish, gaunt and squalid,
                                    Whom their country spurns for lack of room.
                                
                                
                                    In their devious track we mutely follow,
                                    Mutely climb dim flights of oozy stairs,
                                    Where through the gap?toothed, mizzling roof the yellow
                                    Pestilent fog blends with the fetid air.
                                    Through the unhinged door’s discordant slamming
                                    Ring the gruesome sounds of savage strife—
                                    
                                    Howls of babes, the drunken father’s damning,
                                    Counter?cursing of the shrill?tongued wife.
                                
                                
                                    Children feebly crying on their mother
                                    In a wailful chorus—“Give us food!”
                                    Man and woman glaring at each other
                                    Like two gaunt wolves with a famished brood.
                                    Till he snatched a stick, and, madly staring,
                                    Struck her blow on blow upon the head;
                                    And she, reeling back, gasped, hardly caring—
                                    “Ah, you’ve done it now, Jim”—and was dead.
                                
                                
                                    Dead—dead—dead—the miserable creature—
                                    Never to feel hunger’s cruel fang
                                    Wring the bowels of rebellious nature
                                    That her infants might be spared the pang.
                                    “Dead! Good luck to her!” The man’s teeth chattered,
                                    Stone?still stared he with blank eyes and
                                        hard,
                                    Then, his frame with one big sob nigh shattered,
                                    Fled—and cut his throat down in the yard.
                                
                                
                                
                                    Dark the night—the children wail forsaken,
                                    Crane their wrinkled necks and cry for food,
                                    Drop off into fitful sleep, or waken
                                    Trembling like a sparrow’s ravished brood.
                                    Dark the night—the rain falls on the ashes,
                                    Feebly hissing on the feeble heat,
                                    Filters through the ceiling, drops in splashes
                                    On the little children’s naked feet.
                                
                                
                                    Dark the night—the children wail forsaken—
                                    Is there none, ah, none, to heed their moan?
                                    Yea, at dawn one little one is taken,
                                    Four poor souls are left, but one is gone.
                                    Gone—escaped—flown from the shame and sorrow
                                    Waiting for them at life’s sombre gate,
                                    But the hand of merciless to?morrow
                                    Drags the others shuddering to their fate.
                                
                                
                                    But one came—a girlish thing—a creature
                                    Flung by wanton hands ’mid lust and crime—
                                    
                                    A poor outcast, yet by right of nature
                                    Sweet as odour of the upland thyme.
                                    Scapegoat of a people’s sins, and hunted,
                                    Howled at, hooted to the wilderness,
                                    To that wilderness of deaf hearts, blunted
                                    To the depths of woman’s dumb distress.
                                
                                
                                    Jetsam, flotsam of the monster city,
                                    Spurned, defiled, reviled, that outcast came
                                    To those babes that whined for love and pity,
                                    Gave them bread bought with the wage of
                                        shame.
                                    Gave them bread, and gave them warm, maternal
                                    Kisses not on sale for any price:
                                    Yea, a spark, a flash of some eternal
                                    Sympathy shone through those haunted eyes.
                                
                                
                                    Ah, perchance through her dark life’s confusion,
                                    Through the haste and taste of fevered hours,
                                    Gusts of memory on her youth’s pollution
                                    Blew forgotten scents of faded flowers.
                                    
                                    And she saw the cottage near the wild wood,
                                    With its lichened and latticed panes,
                                    Strayed once more through golden fields of childhood,
                                    Hyacinth dells and hawthorn?scented lanes.
                                
                                
                                    Heard once more the song of nested thrushes
                                    And the blackbird’s long mellifluous note,
                                    Felt once more the glow of maiden blushes
                                    Burn through rosy cheek and milkwhite throat
                                    In that orchard where the apple blossom
                                    Lightly shaken fluttered on her hair,
                                    As the heart was fluttering in her bosom
                                    When her sweetheart came and kissed her
                                        there.
                                
                                
                                    Often came he in the lilac?laden
                                    Moonlit twilight, often pledged his word;
                                    But she was a simple country?maiden,
                                    He the offspring of a noble lord.
                                    
                                    Fading lilacs May’s farewell betoken,
                                    Fledglings fly and soon forget the nest;
                                    Lightly may a young man’s vows be broken,
                                    And the heart break in a woman’s breast.
                                
                                
                                    Gathered like a sprig of summer roses
                                    In the dewy morn and flung away,
                                    To the girl the father’s door now closes,
                                    Let her shelter henceforth how she may.
                                    Who will house the miserable mother
                                    With her child, a helpless castaway!
                                    “I, am I the keeper of my brother?”
                                    Asks smug virtue as it turns to pray!
                                
                                
                                    Lovely are the earliest Lenten lilies,
                                    Primrose pleiads, hyacinthine sheets;
                                    Stripped and rifled from their pastoral valleys,
                                    See them sold now in the public streets!
                                    Other flowers are sold there besides posies—
                                    Eyes may have the hyacinth’s glowing blue,
                                    
                                    Rounded cheeks the velvet bloom of roses,
                                    Taper necks the rain?washed lily’s hue.
                                
                                
                                    But a rustic blossom! Love and duty
                                    Bound up in a child whom hunger slays!
                                    Ah! but one thing still is left her—beauty
                                    Fresh, untainted yet—and beauty pays.
                                    Beauty keeps her child alive a little,
                                    Then it dies—her woman’s love with it—
                                    Beauty’s brilliant sceptre, ah, how brittle,
                                    Drags her daily deeper down the pit.
                                
                                
                                    Ruin closes o’er her—hideous, nameless;
                                    Each fresh morning marks a deeper fall;
                                    Till at twenty—callous, cankered, shameless,
                                    She lies dying at the hospital.
                                    Drink, more drink, she calls for—her harsh laughter
                                    Grates upon the meekly praying nurse,
                                    Eloquent about her soul’s hereafter:
                                    “Souls be blowed!” she sings out with a
                                        curse.
                                
                                
                                
                                    And so dies, an unrepenting sinner—
                                    Pitched into her pauper’s grave what time
                                    That most noble lord rides by to dinner
                                    Who had wooed her in her innocent prime.
                                    And in after?dinner talk he preaches
                                    Resignation—o’er his burgundy—
                                    Till a grateful public dubs his speeches
                                    Oracles of true philanthropy.
                                
                                
                                    Peace ye call this? Call this justice, meted
                                    Equally to rich and poor alike?
                                    Better than this peace the battle’s heated
                                    Cannon?balls that ask not whom they strike!
                                    Better than this masquerade of culture
                                    Hiding strange hyæna appetites,
                                    The frank ravening of the raw?necked vulture
                                    As its beak the senseless carrion smites.
                                
                                
                                    What of men in bondage, toiling blunted
                                    In the roaring factory’s lurid gloom?
                                    
                                    What of cradled infants starved and stunted?
                                    What of woman’s nameless martyrdom?
                                    The all?seeing sun shines on unheeding,
                                    Shines by night the calm, unruffled moon,
                                    Though the human myriads, preying, bleeding,
                                    Put creation harshly out of tune.
                                
                                
                                    “Hence,ah,hence”—I sobbed in quivering passion—
                                    “From these fearful haunts of fiendish men!
                                    Better far the plain, carnivorous fashion
                                    Which is practised in the lion’s den.”
                                    And I fled—yet staggering still did follow
                                    In the footprints of my shrouded guide—
                                    To the sea?caves echoing with the hollow
                                    Immemorial moaning of the tide.
                                
                                
                                    Sinking, swelling roared the wintry ocean,
                                    Pitch?black chasms struck with flying blaze,
                                    As the cloud?winged storm?sky’s sheer commotion
                                    Showed the blank Moon’s mute Medusa face
                                    
                                    White o’er wastes of water—surges crashing
                                    Over surges in the formless gloom,
                                    And a mastless hulk, with great seas washing
                                    Her scourged flanks, pitched toppling to her
                                        doom.
                                
                                
                                    Through the crash of wave on wave gigantic,
                                    Through the thunder of the hurricane,
                                    My wild heart in breaking shrilled with frantic
                                    Exultation—“Chaos come again!
                                    Yea, let earth be split and cloven asunder
                                    With man’s still accumulating curse—
                                    Life is but a momentary blunder
                                    In the cycle of the Universe.
                                
                                
                                    “Yea, let earth with forest?belted mountains,
                                    Hills and valleys, cataracts and plains,
                                    With her clouds and storms and fires and fountains,
                                    Pass with all her rolling sphere contains,
                                    Melt, dissolve again into the ocean,
                                    Ocean fade into a nebulous haze!”
                                    
                                    And I sank back without sense or motion
                                    ’Neath the blank Moon’s mute Medusa face.
                                
                                
                                    Moments, years, or ages passed, when, lifting
                                    Freezing lids, I felt the heavens on high,
                                    And, innumerable as the sea?sands drifting,
                                    Stars unnumbered drifted through the sky.
                                    Rhythmical in luminous rotation,
                                    In dædalian maze they reel and fly,
                                    And their rushing light is Time’s pulsation
                                    In his passage through Eternity.
                                
                                
                                    Constellated suns, fresh lit, declining,
                                    Were ignited now, now quenched in space,
                                    Rolling round each other, or inclining
                                    Orb to orb in multi?coloured rays.
                                    Ever showering from their flaming fountains
                                    Light more light on each far?circling earth,
                                    Till life stirred crepuscular seas, and mountains
                                    Heaved convulsive with the throes of birth.
                                
                                
                                
                                    And the noble brotherhood of planets,
                                    Knitted each to each by links of light,
                                    Circled round their suns, nor knew a minute’s
                                    Lapse or languor in their ceaseless flight.
                                    And pale moons and rings and burning splinters
                                    Of wrecked worlds swept round their parent
                                        spheres,
                                    Clothed with spring or sunk in polar winters
                                    As their sun draws nigh or disappears.
                                
                                
                                    Still new vistas of new stars—far dwindling—
                                    Through the firmament like dewdrops roll,
                                    Torches of the Cosmos which enkindling
                                    Flash their revelation on the soul.
                                    Yea, One spake there—though nor form nor feature
                                    Shown—a Voice came from the peaks of time:—
                                    “Wilt thou judge me, wilt thou curse me, Creature
                                    Whom I raised up from the Ocean slime?
                                
                                
                                    “Long I waited—ages rolled o’er ages—
                                    As I crystallized in granite rocks,
                                    
                                    Struggled dumb through immemorial stages,
                                    Glacial æons, fiery earthquake shocks.
                                    In fierce throbs of flame or slow upheaval,
                                    Speck by tiny speck, I topped the seas,
                                    Leaped from earth’s dark womb, and in primeval
                                    Forests shot up shafts of mammoth trees.
                                
                                
                                    “Through a myriad forms I yearned and panted,
                                    Putting forth quick shoots in endless swarms—
                                    Giant?hoofed, sharp?tusked, or finned or planted
                                    Writhing on the reef with pinioned arms.
                                    I have climbed from reek or sanguine revels
                                    In Cimmerian wood and thorny wild,
                                    Slowly upwards to the dawnlit levels
                                    Where I bore thee, oh my youngest Child!
                                
                                
                                    “Oh, my heir and hope of my to?morrow,
                                    I—I draw thee on through fume and fret,
                                    Croon to thee in pain and call through sorrow,
                                    Flowers and stars take for thy alphabet.
                                    
                                    Through the eyes of animals appealing,
                                    Feel my fettered spirit yearn to thine,
                                    Who, in storm of will and clash of feeling,
                                    Shape the life that shall be—the divine.
                                
                                
                                    “Oh, redeem me from my tiger rages,
                                    Reptile greed, and foul hyæna lust;
                                    With the hero’s deeds, the thoughts of sages,
                                    Sow and fructify this passive dust;
                                    Drop in dew and healing love of woman
                                    On the bloodstained hands of hungry strife,
                                    Till there break from passion of the Human
                                    Morning?glory of transfigured life.
                                
                                
                                    “I have cast my burden on thy shoulder;
                                    Unimagined potencies have given
                                    That from formless Chaos thou shalt mould her
                                    And translate gross earth to luminous heaven.
                                    Bear, oh, bear the terrible compulsion,
                                    Flinch not from the path thy fathers trod,
                                    
                                    From Man’s martyrdom in slow convulsion
                                    Will be born the infinite goodness—God.”
                                
                                
                                    Ceased the Voice: and as it ceased it drifted
                                    Like the seashell’s inarticulate moan;
                                    From the Deep, on wings of flame uplifted, 
                                    Rose the sun rejoicing and alone.
                                    Laughed in light upon the living ocean,
                                    Danced and rocked itself upon the spray,
                                    And its shivered beams in twinkling motion
                                    Gleamed like star?motes of the Milky Way.
                                
                                
                                    And beside me in the golden morning
                                    I beheld my shrouded phantom?guide;
                                    But no longer sorrow?veiled and mourning—
                                    It became transfigured by my side.
                                    And I knew—as one escaped from prison
                                    Sees old things again with fresh surprise—
                                    It was Love himself, Love re?arisen
                                    With the Eternal shining though his eyes.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
                 
                    
                    POEMS OF THE OPEN AIR.
                    
                    
                        
                            “Therefore all seasons shall be sweet to thee,
                            Whether the summer clothe the general earth
                            With greenness, or the redbreast sit and sing
                            Betwixt the tufts of snow on the bare branch.”
                        
                        S.T. Coleridge.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SOWER.
                        
                            THE winds had hushed at last as by command; 
                            The quiet sky above,
                            With its grey clouds spread o’er the fallow land, 
                            Sat brooding like a dove
                        
                        
                            There was no motion in the air, no sound 
                            Within the tree?tops stirred,
                            Save when some last leaf, fluttering to the ground, 
                            Dropped like a wounded bird:
                        
                        
                            Or when the swart rooks in a gathering crowd 
                            With clamorous noises wheeled,
                            Hovering awhile, then swooped with wranglings loud 
                            Down on the stubbly field.
                        
                        
                        
                            For now the big?thewed horses, toiling slow 
                            In straining couples yoked,
                            Patiently dragged the ploughshare to and fro 
                            Till their wet haunches smoked.
                        
                        
                            Till the stiff acre, broken into clods, 
                            Bruised by the harrow’s tooth,
                            Lay lightly shaken, with its humid sods 
                            Ranged into furrows smooth.
                        
                        
                            There looming lone, from rise to set of sun, 
                            Without or pause or speed,
                            Solemnly striding by the furrows dun, 
                            The sower sows the seed.
                        
                        
                            The sower sows the seed, which mouldering, 
                            Deep coffined in the earth,
                            Is buried now, but with the future spring 
                            Will quicken into birth.
                        
                        
                        
                            Oh, poles of birth and death! Controlling Powers 
                            Of human toil and need!
                            On this fair earth all men are surely sowers, 
                            Surely all life is seed!
                        
                        
                            All life is seed, dropped in Time’s yawning furrow, 
                            Which with slow sprout and shoot,
                            In the revolving world’s unfathomed morrow, 
                            Will blossom and bear fruit.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A SPRING SONG.
                        
                            DARK sod pierced by flames of flowers,
                            Dead wood freshly quickening,
                            Bright skies dusked with sudden showers,
                            Lit by rainbows on the wing.
                        
                        
                            Cuckoo calls and young lambs’ bleating
                            Nimble arts which coyly bring
                            Little gusts of tender greeting
                            From shy nooks where violets cling.
                        
                        
                            Half?fledged buds and birds and vernal
                            Fields of grass dew?glistening;
                            Evanescent life’s eternal
                            Resurrection, bridal Spring!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        APRIL RAIN.
                        
                            THE April rain, the April rain,
                            Comes slanting down in fitful showers,
                            Then from the furrow shoots the grain,
                            And banks are fledged with nestling flowers;
                            And in grey shaw and woodland bowers
                             The cuckoo through the April rain 
                             Calls once again.
                        
                        
                            The April sun, the April sun,
                            Glints through the rain in fitful splendour,
                            And in grey shaw and woodland dun
                            The little leaves spring forth and tender
                            Their infant hands, yet weak and slender,
                            For warmth towards the April sun, 
                             One after one.
                        
                        
                        
                            And between shower and shine hath birth
                            The rainbow’s evanescent glory;
                            Heaven’s light that breaks on mists of earth!
                            Frail symbol of our human story,
                            It flowers through showers where, looming hoary,
                            The rain?clouds flash with April mirth, 
                             Like Life on earth.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
                        
                            THERE was intoxication in the air;
                            The wind, keen blowing from across the seas,
                            O’er leagues of new?ploughed land and heathery leas,
                            Smelt of wild gorse whose gold flamed everywhere.
                            An undertone of song pulsed far and near,
                            The soaring larks filled heaven with ecstasies,
                            And, like a living clock among the trees,
                            The shouting cuckoo struck the time of year.
                        
                        
                            For now the Sun had found the earth once more,
                            And woke the Sleeping Beauty with a kiss;
                            Who thrilled with light of love in every pore,
                            Opened her flower?blue eyes, and looked in his.
                            Then all things felt life fluttering at their core—
                            The world shook mystical in lambent bliss.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        APPLE?BLOSSOM.
                        
                            BLOSSOM of the apple trees!
                            Mossy trunks all gnarled and hoary,
                            Grey boughs tipped with rose?veined glory,
                            Clustered petals soft as fleece
                            Garlanding old apple trees!
                        
                        
                            How you gleam at break of day!
                            When the coy sun, glancing rarely,
                            Pouts and sparkles in the pearly
                            Pendulous dewdrops, twinkling gay
                            On each dancing leaf and spray.
                        
                        
                            Through your latticed boughs on high,
                            Framed in rosy wreaths, one catches
                            Brief kaleidoscopic snatches
                            
                            Of deep lapis?lazuli
                            In the April?coloured sky.
                        
                        
                            When the sundown’s dying brand
                            Leaves your beauty to the tender
                            Magic spells of moonlight splendour,
                            Glimmering clouds of bloom you stand,
                            Turning earth to fairyland.
                        
                        
                            Cease, wild winds, O, cease to blow!
                            Apple?blossom, fluttering, flying,
                            Palely on the green turf lying,
                            Vanishing like winter snow;
                            Swift as joy to come and go.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE MUSIC?LESSON.
                        
                            A THRUSH alit on a young?leaved spray, 
                             And, lightly clinging, 
                             It rocked in its singing
                            As the rapturous notes rose loud and gay; 
                             And with liquid shakes, 
                             And trills and breaks,
                            Rippled through blossoming boughs of May.
                        
                        
                            Like a ball of fluff, with a warm brown throat 
                             And throbbing bosom, 
                             ’Mid the apple?blossom,
                            The new?fledged nestling sat learning by rote 
                             To echo the song 
                             So tender and strong,
                            As it feebly put in its frail little note.
                        
                        
                        
                            O blissfullest lesson amid the green grove! 
                             The low wind crispeth 
                             The leaves, where lispeth
                            The shy little bird with its parent above; 
                             Two voices that mingle 
                             And make but a single
                            Hymn of rejoicing in praise of their love.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE TEAMSTER.
                        
                            WITH slow and slouching gait Sam leads the team;
                            He stoops i’ the shoulders, worn with work not years;
                            One only passion has he, it would seem—
                            The passion for the horses which he rears:
                            He names them as one would some household pet, 
                             May, Violet.
                        
                        
                            He thinks them quite as sensible as men;
                            As nice as women, but not near so skittish;
                            He fondles, cossets, scolds them now and then,
                            Nay, gravely talks as if they know good British:
                            You hear him call from dawn to set of sun, 
                            “Goo back! Com on!”
                        
                        
                        
                            Sam never seems depressed nor yet elate,
                            Like Nature’s self he goes his punctual round;
                            On Sundays, smoking by his garden gate,
                            For hours he’ll stand, with eyes upon the ground,
                            Like some tired cart?horse in a field alone, 
                            And still as stone.
                        
                        
                            Yet, howsoever stolid he may seem,
                            Sam has his tragic background, weird and wild
                            Like some adventure in a drunkard’s dream.
                            Impossible, you’d swear, for one so mild:
                            Yet village gossips dawdling o’er their ale 
                            Still tell the tale.
                        
                        
                            In his young days Sam loved a servant?maid,
                            A girl with happy eyes like hazel brooks
                            That dance i’ the sun, cheeks as if newly made
                            Of pouting roses coyly hid in nooks,
                            And warm brown hair that wantoned into curl: 
                            A fresh?blown girl.
                        
                        
                        
                            Sam came a?courting while the year was blithe,
                            When wet browed mowers, stepping out in tune,
                            With level stroke and rhythmic swing of scythe,
                             Smote down the proud grass in the pomp of June,
                            And wagons, half?tipped over, seemed to sway 
                            With loads of hay.
                        
                        
                            The elder bush beside the orchard croft
                            Brimmed over with its bloom like curds and cream;
                            From out grey nests high in the granary loft
                            Black clusters of small heads with callow scream
                            Peered open?beaked, as swallows flashed along 
                            To feed their young.
                        
                        
                            Ripening towards the harvest swelled the wheat,
                            Lust cherries dangled ’gainst the latticed panes;
                            The roads were baking in the windless heat,
                            And dust had floured the glossy country lanes,
                            One sun?hushed, light?flushed Sunday afternoon 
                            The last of June.
                        
                        
                        
                            When, with his thumping heart all out joint,
                            And pulses beating like a stroller’s drum,
                            Sam screwed his courage to the sticking point
                            And asked his blushing sweetheart if she’d come
                            To Titsey Fair; he meant to coax coy May 
                            To name the day.
                        
                        
                            But her rich master snapped his thumb and swore
                            The girl was not for him! Should not go out!
                            And, whistling to his dogs, slammed?to the door
                            Close in Sam’s face, and left him dazed without
                            In the fierce sunshine, blazing in his path 
                            Like fire of wrath.
                        
                        
                            Unheeding, he went forth with hot wild eyes
                            Past fields of feathery oats and wine?red clover;
                            Unheeded, larks soared singing to the skies,
                            Or rang the plaintive cry of rising plover;
                            Unheeded, pheasants with a startled sound 
                            Whirred from the ground.
                        
                        
                        
                            On, on he went by acres full of grain,
                            By trees and meadows reeling past his sight,
                            As to a man whirled onwards in a train
                            The land with spinning hedgerows seems in flight;
                            At last he stopped and leant a long, long while 
                            Against a stile.
                        
                        
                            Hours passed; the clock struck ten; a hush of night,
                            In which even wind and water seemed at peace;
                            But here and there a glimmering cottage light
                            Shone like a glowworm though the slumberous trees;
                            Or from some far?off homestead through the dark 
                            A watch?dog’s bark.
                        
                        
                            But all at once Sam gave a stifled cry:
                            “There’s fire,” he muttered, “fire upon the hills!”
                            
                            No fire—but as the late moon rose on high
                            Her light looked smoke?red as through belching mills:
                            No fire—but moonlight turning in his path 
                            To fire of wrath.
                        
                        
                            He looked abroad with eyes that gave the mist
                            A lurid tinge above the breadths of grain
                            Owned by May’s master. Then he shook his fist,
                            Still muttering, “Fire!” and measured o’er again
                            The road he’d come, where, lapped in moonlight, lay 
                            Huge ricks of hay.
                        
                        
                            There he paused glaring. Then he turned and waned
                            Like mist into the misty, moon?soaked night,
                            Where the pale silvery fields were blotched and stained
                            With strange fantastic shadows. But what light
                            Is that which leaps up, flickering lithe and long, 
                            With licking tongue!
                        
                        
                        
                            Hungry it darts and hisses, twists and turns,
                            And with each minute shoots up high and higher,
                            Till, wrapped in flames, the mighty hayrick burns
                            And sends its sparks on to a neighbouring byre,
                            Where, frightened at the hot, tremendous glow, 
                            The cattle low.
                        
                        
                            And rick on rick takes fire; and next a stye,
                            Whence through the smoke the little pigs rush out;
                            The house?dog barks; then, with a startled cry,
                            The window is flung open, shout on shout
                            Wakes the hard?sleeping farm where man and maid 
                            Start up dismayed.
                        
                        
                            And with wild faces wavering in the glare,
                            In nightcaps, bedgowns, clothes half huddled on
                            Some to the pump, some to the duck?pond tear
                            In frantic haste, while others splashing run
                            With pails, or turn the hose with flame?scorched face 
                            Upon the blaze.
                        
                        
                        
                            At last, when some wan streaks began to show
                            In the chill darkness of the sky, the fire
                            Went out, subdued but for the sputtering glow
                            Of sparks among wet ashes. Barn and byre
                            Were safe, but swallowed all the summer math 
                            By fire of wrath.
                        
                        
                            Still haggard from the night’s wild work and pale,
                            Farm?men and women stood in whispering knots,
                            Regaled with foaming mugs of nut?brown ale;
                            Firing his oaths about like vicious shots,
                            The farmer hissed out now and then: “Gad damn! 
                            It’s that black Sam.”
                        
                        
                            They had him up and taxed him with the crime;
                            Denying naught, he sulked and held his peace;
                            And so, a branded convict, in due time,
                            Handcuffed and cropped, they shipped him over? seas:
                            Seven years of shame sliced from his labourer’s life 
                            As with a knife.
                        
                        
                        
                            But through it all the image of a girl
                            With hazel eyes like pebbled waters clear,
                            And warm brown hair that wantoned into curl,
                            Kept his heart sweet through many a galling year,
                            Like to a bit of lavender long pressed 
                            In some black chest.
                        
                        
                            At last his time was up, and Sam returned
                            To his dear village with its single street,
                            Where, in the sooty forge, the fire still burned,
                            As, hammering on the anvil, red with heat,
                            The smith wrought at a shoe with tongues aglow, 
                            Blow upon blow.
                        
                        
                            There stood the church, with peals for death and birth,
                            Its ancient spire o’ertopping ancient trees,
                            And there the graves and mounds of unknown earth,
                            Gathered like little children round its knees;
                            
                            There was “The Bull,” with sign above the door, 
                            And sanded floor.
                        
                        
                            Unrecognized Sam took his glass of beer,
                            And picked up gossip which the men let fall:
                            How Farmer Clow had failed, and one named Steer
                            Had taken on the land, repairs and all;
                            And how the Kimber girl was to be wed 
                            To Betsy’s Ned.
                        
                        
                            Sam heard no more, flung down his pence, and took
                            The way down to the well?remembered stile;
                            There, in the gloaming by the trysting brook,
                             He came upon his May—with just that smile
                            For sheep?faced Ned, that light in happy eyes: 
                            Oh, sugared lies!
                        
                        
                            He came upon them with black?knitted brows
                            And clenched brown hands, and muttered huskily:
                            
                            “Oh, little May, are those your true love’s vows
                            You swore to keep while I was over?sea?”
                            Then crying, turned upon the other one, 
                            “Com on, com on.”
                        
                        
                            Then they fell to with faces set for fight,
                            And hit each other hard with rustic pride;
                            But Sam, whose are with iron force could smite,
                            Knocked his cowed rival down, and won his bride.
                            May wept and smiled, swayed like a wild red rose 
                            As the wind blows.
                        
                        
                            She married Sam, who loved her with a wild
                            Strong love he could not put to words—too deep
                            For her to gauge; but with her first?born child
                            May dropped off, flower?like, into the long sleep,
                            And left him nothing but the memory of 
                            His little love.
                        
                        
                        
                            Since then the silent teamster lives alone,
                            The trusted headman of his master Steer;
                            One only passion seems he still to own—
                            The passion for the foals he has to rear;
                            And still the prettiest, full of life and play, 
                            Is little May.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A HIGHLAND VILLAGE.
                        
                            CLEAR shining after the rain,
                            The sun bursts the clouds asunder,
                            And the hollow?rumbling thunder
                            Groans like a loaded wain
                            As, deep in the Grampians yonder,
                            He grumbles now and again.
                        
                        
                            Whenever the breezes shiver
                            The leaves where the rain?drops quiver,
                            Each bough and bush and brier
                            Breaks into living fire,
                            Till every tree is bright
                            With blossom bursts of light.
                        
                        
                        
                            From golden roof and spout
                            Brown waters gurgle and splutter,
                            And rush down the flooded gutter
                            Where the village children shout,
                            As barefoot they splash in and out
                            The water with tireless patter.
                        
                        
                            The bald little Highland street
                            Is all alive and a?glitter;
                            The air blows keen and sweet
                            Fro the field where the swallows twitter;
                            Old wives on the doorsteps meet,
                            At the corner the young maids titter.
                        
                        
                            And the reapers hasten again,
                            Ere quite the daylight wane
                            To shake out the barley sheaves;
                            While through the twinkling leaves
                            The harvest moon upheaves
                            Clear shining after the rain.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ON A FORSAKEN LARK’S NEST.
                        
                            LO, where left ’mid the sheaves, cut down by the iron?fanged
                                reaper,
                            Eating its way as it clangs fast through the wavering wheat,
                            Lies the nest of a lark, whose little brown eggs could not keep
                                her
                            As she, affrighted and scared, fled from the harvester’s feet.
                        
                        
                            Ah, what a heartful of song that now will never awaken,
                            Closely packed in the shell, awaited love’s fostering,
                            That should have quickened to life what, now a?cold and forsaken,
                            Never, enamoured of light, will meet the dawn on the wing.
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah, what pæans of joy, what raptures no mortal can measure,
                            Sweet as honey that’s sealed in the cells of the honey?comb,
                            Would have ascended on high in jets of mellifluous pleasure,
                            Would have dropped from the clouds to nest in its gold?curtained
                                home.
                        
                        
                            Poor, pathetic brown eggs! Oh, pulses that never will quicken!
                            Music mute in the shell that hath been turned to a tomb!
                            Many a sweet human singer, chilled and adversity?stricken,
                            Withers benumbed in a world his joy might have helped to illume.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        REAPERS.
                        
                            SUN?TANNED men and women, toiling there to?gether;
                            Seven I count in all, in yon field of wheat,
                            Where the rich ripe ears in the harvest weather
                            Glow an orange gold though the sweltering heat.
                        
                        
                            Busy life is still, sunk in brooding leisure:
                            Birds have hushed their singing in the hushed
                                tree?tops;
                            Not a single cloud mars the flawless azure;
                            Not a shadow moves o’er the moveless crops;
                        
                        
                            In the glassy shallow, that no breath is creasing,
                            Chestnut?coloured cows in the rushes dank
                            
                            Stand like cows of bronze, save when they flick the teasing
                            Flies with switch of tail from each quivering flank.
                        
                        
                            Nature takes a rest—even her bees are sleeping,
                            And the silent wood seems a church that’s shut;
                            But these human creatures cease not from their reaping
                            While the corn stands high, waiting to be cut.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        APPLE?GATHERING.
                        
                            ESSEX flats are pink with clover,
                            Kent is crowned with flaunting hops,
                            Whitely shine the cliffs of Dover,
                            Yellow wave the Midland crops;
                        
                        
                            Sussex Downs the flocks grow sleek on,
                            But, for me, I love to stand
                            Where the Herefordshire beacon
                            Watches o’er his orchard land.
                        
                        
                            Where now sun, now shadow dapples—
                             As it wavers in the breeze—
                            Clumps of fresh?complexioned apples
                            On the heavy?laden trees:
                        
                        
                        
                            Red and yellow, streaked and hoary, 
                            Russet?coated, pale or brown—
                            Some are dipped in sunset glory,
                            And some painted by the dawn.
                        
                        
                            What profusion, what abundance!
                            Not a twig but has its fruits;
                            High in air some in the sun dance,
                            Some lie scattered near the roots.
                        
                        
                            These the hasty winds have taken
                            Are a green, untimely crop;
                            Those by burly rustics shaken
                            Fall with loud resounding plop.
                        
                        
                            In this mellow autumn weather,
                            Ruddy ’mid the long green grass,
                            Heaped?up baskets stand together,
                            Filled by many a blowsy lass.
                        
                        
                        
                            Red and yellow, streaked and hoary,
                            Pile them on the granary floors,
                            Till the yule?log’s flame in glory
                            Loudly up the chimney roars;
                        
                        
                            Till gay troops of children, lightly
                            Tripping in with shouts of glee,
                            See ripe apples dangling brightly
                            On the red?lit Christmas?tree.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE SONGS OF SUMMER.
                        
                            THE songs of summer are over and past!
                            The swallow’s forsaken the dripping eaves;
                            Ruined and black ’mid the sodden leaves
                            The nests are rudely swung in the blast:
                            And ever the wind like a soul in pain
                            Knocks and knock at the window?pane.
                        
                        
                            The songs of summer are over and past!
                            Woe’s me for a music sweeter than theirs—
                            The quick, light bound of a step on the stairs,
                            The greeting of lovers too sweet to last:
                            And ever the wind like a soul in pain
                            Knocks and knocks at the window?pane.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        AUTUMN TINTS.
                        
                            CORAL?COLOURED yew?berries
                            Strew the garden ways,
                            Hollyhocks and sunflowers
                            Make a dazzling blaze
                            In these latter days.
                        
                        
                            Marigolds by cottage doors
                            Flaunt their golden pride,
                            Crimson?punctured bramble leaves
                            Dapple far and wide
                            The green mountain?side.
                        
                        
                        
                            Far away, on hilly slopes
                            Where fleet rivulets run,
                            Miles on miles of tangled fern,
                            Burnished by the sun,
                            Glow a copper dun.
                        
                        
                            For the year that’s on the wane,
                            Gathering all its fire,
                            Flares up through the kindling world
                            As, ere they expire,
                            Flames leap high and higher.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        GREEN LEAVES AND SERE.
                        
                            THREE tall poplars beside the pool
                            Shiver and moan in the gusty blast,
                            The carded clouds are blown like wool,
                            And the yellowing leaves fly thick and fast.
                        
                        
                            The leaves, now driven before the blast,
                            Now flung by fits on the curdling pool,
                            Are tossed heaven?high and dropped at last
                            As if at the whim of a jabbering fool.
                        
                        
                            O leaves, once rustling green and cool!
                            Two met here where one moans aghast
                            With wild heart heaving towards the past:
                            Three tall poplars beside the pool.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The HUNTER’S MOON.
                        
                            THE Hunter’s Moon rides high,
                            High o’er the close?cropped plain;
                            Across the desert sky
                            The herded clouds amain
                            Scamper tumultuously,
                            Chased by the hounding wind
                            That yelps behind.
                        
                        
                            The clamourous hunt is done,
                            Warm?housed the kennelled pack;
                            One huntsman rides alone
                            With dangling bridle slack;
                            He wakes a hollow tone,
                            Far echoing to his horn
                            In clefts forlorn.
                        
                        
                        
                            The Hunter’s Moon rides low,
                            Her course in nearly sped.
                            Where is the panting roe?
                            Where hath the wild deer fled?
                            Hunter and hunted now
                            Lie in oblivion deep:
                            Dead or asleep.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PASSING YEAR.
                        
                            NO breath of wind stirs in the painted leaves,
                            The meadows are as stirless as the sky,
                            Like a Saint’s halo golden vapours lie
                            Above the restful valley’s garnered sheaves.
                            The journeying Sun, like one who fondly grieves,
                            Above the hills seems loitering with a sigh,
                            As loth to bid the fruitful earth good?bye,
                            On these hushed hours of luminous autumn eves.
                        
                        
                            There is a pathos in his softening glow,
                            Which like a benediction seems to hover
                            O’er the tranced earth, ere he must sink below
                            And leave her widowed of her radiant Lover,
                            A frost?bound sleeper in a shroud of snow
                            While winter winds howl a wild dirge above her.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE ROBIN REDBREAST.
                        
                            THE year’s grown songless! No glad pipings thrill
                            The hedge?row elms, whose wind?worn branches shower
                            Their leaves on the sere grass, where some late
                                flower
                            In golden chalice hoards the sunlight still.
                            Our summer guests, whose raptures used to fill
                            Each apple?blossomed garth and honeyed bower,
                            Have in adversity’s inclement hour
                            Abandoned us to bleak November’s chill.
                        
                        
                            But hearken! Yonder russet bird among
                            The crimson clusters of the homely thorn
                            
                            Still bubbles o’er with little rills of song—
                            A blending of sweet hope and resignation:
                            Even so, when life of love and youth is shorn,
                            One friend becomes its last, best consolation.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE RED SUNSETS, 1883.
                        
                            THE boding sky was charactered with cloud,
                            The scripture of the storm—but high in air,
                            Where the unfathomed zenith still was bare,
                            A pure expanse of rose?flushed violet glowed
                            And, kindling into crimson light, o’erflowed
                            The hurrying wrack with such a blood?red glare,
                            That heaven, igniting, wildly seemed to flare
                            On the dazed eyes of many an awe?struck crowd.
                        
                        
                            And in far lands folk presaged with blanched lips
                            Disastrous wars, earthquakes, and foundering ships
                            Such whelming floods as never dykes could stem,
                            Or some proud empire’s ruin and eclipse:
                            Lo, such a sky, they cried, as burned o’er them
                            Once lit the sacking of Jerusalem!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE RED SUNSETS, 1883.
                        
                            THE twilight heavens are flushed with gathering light,
                            And o’er wet roofs and huddling streets below
                            Hand with a strange Apocalyptic glow
                            On the black fringes of the wintry night.
                            Such bursts of glory may have rapt the sight
                            Of him to whom on Patmos long ago
                            The visionary angel came to show
                            That heavenly city built of chrysolite.
                        
                        
                            And lo, three factory hands begrimed with soot,
                            Aflame with the red splendour, marvelling stand,
                            And gaze with lifted faces awed and mute.
                            Starved of earth’s beauty by Man’s grudging hand,
                            O toilers, robbed of labour’s golden fruit,
                            Ye, too, may feast in Nature’s fairyland.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ON THE LIGHTHOUSE AT ANTIBES.
                        
                            A STORMY light of sunset glows and glares
                            Between two banks of cloud, and o’er the brine
                            Thy fair lamp on the sky’s carnation line
                            Alone on the lone promontory flares:
                            Friend of the Fisher who at nightfall fares
                            Where lurk false reefs masked by the hyaline
                            Of dimpling waves, within whose smile divine
                            Death lies in wait behind Circean snares.
                        
                        
                            The evening knows thee ere the evening star;
                            Or sees thy flame sole Regent of the bight,
                            When storm, hoarse rumoured by the hills afar,
                            Makes mariners steer landward by thy light,
                            Which shows through shock of hostile nature’s war
                            How man keeps watch o’er man through deadliest night.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CAGNES. 
                        ON THE RIVIERA.
                        
                            IN tortuous windings up the steep incline
                            The sombre street toils to the village square,
                            Whose antique walls in stone and moulding bear
                            Dumb witness to the Moor. Afar off shine,
                            With tier on tier, cutting heaven’s blue divine,
                            The snowy Alps; and lower the hills are fair,
                            With wave?green olives rippling down to where
                            Gold clusters hang and leaves of sunburnt vine.
                        
                        
                            You may perchance, I never shall forget
                            When, between twofold glory of land and sea,
                            We leant together o’er the old parapet,
                            And saw the sun go down. For, oh, to me,
                            The beauty of that beautiful strange place
                            Was its reflection beaming from your face.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A WINTER LANDSCAPE.
                        
                            ALL night, all day, in dizzy, downward flight,
                            Fell the wild?whirling, vague, chaotic snow,
                            Till every landmark of the earth below,
                            Trees, moorlands, roads, and each familiar sight
                            Were blotted out by the bewildering white.
                            And winds, now shrieking loud, now whimpering low,
                            Seemed lamentations for the world?old woe
                            That death must swallow life, and darkness light.
                        
                        
                            But all at once the rack was blown away,
                            The snowstorm hushing ended in a sigh;
                            Then like a flame the crescent moon on high
                            Leaped forth among the planets; pure as they,
                            Earth vied in whiteness with the Milky Way:
                            Herself a star beneath the starry sky.
                        
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                    LOVE IN EXILE.
                    
                    
                        
                            “Whatever way my days decline,
                            I felt and feel, tho’ left alone,
                            His being working in mine own,
                            The footsteps of his life in mine.”
                        
                        Lord Tennyson.
                    
                    
                    SONGS.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            THOU walkest with me as the spirit?light
                            Of the hushed moon, high o’er a snowy hill,
                            Walks with the houseless traveller all the night,
                            When trees are tongueless and when mute the rill.
                            Moon of my soul, O phantasm of delight,
                            Thou walkest with me still.
                        
                        
                            The vestal flame of quenchless memory burns
                            In my soul’s sanctuary. Yea, still for thee
                            My bitter heart hath yearned, as moonward yearns
                            Each separate wave?pulse of the clamorous sea:
                            My Moon of love, to whom for ever turns
                            The life that aches through me.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        
                            I WAS again beside my Love in dream:
                            Earth was so beautiful, the moon was shining;
                            The muffled voice of many a cataract stream
                            Came like a love?song, as, with arms entwining,
                            Our hearts were mixed in unison supreme.
                        
                        
                            The wind lay spell?bound in each pillared pine,
                            The tasselled larches had no sound or motion,
                            As my whole life was sinking into thine—
                            Sinking into a deep, unfathomed ocean
                            Of infinite love—uncircumscribed, divine.
                        
                        
                        
                            Night held her breath, it seemed, with all her stars:\
                            Eternal eyes that watched in mute compassion
                            Our little lives o’erleap their mortal bars,
                            Fused in the fulness of immortal passion,
                            A passion as immortal as the stars.
                        
                        
                            There was no longer any thee or me;
                            No sense of self, no wish or incompleteness;
                            The moment, rounded to Eternity,
                            Annihilated time’s destructive fleetness:
                            For all but love itself had ceased to be.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        
                            I AM athirst, but not for wine;
                            The drink I long for is divine,
                            Poured only from your eyes in mine.
                        
                        
                            I hunger, but the bread I want,
                            Of which my blood and brain are scant,
                            Is your sweet speech, for which I pant.
                        
                        
                            I am a?cold, and lagging lame,
                            Life creeps along my languid frame;
                            Your love would fan it into flame.
                        
                        
                            Heaven’s in that little word—your love!
                            It makes my heart coo like a dove,
                            My tears fall as I think thereof.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        
                            I WOULD I were the glow?worm, thou the flower,
                            That I might fill thy cup with glimmering light;
                            I would I were the bird, and thou the bower,
                            To sing thee songs throughout the summer night.
                        
                        
                            I would I were a pine tree deeply rooted,
                            And thou the lofty, cloud?beleaguered rock,
                            Still, while the blasts of heaven around us hooted,
                            To cleave to thee and weather every shock.
                        
                        
                            I would I were the rill, and thou the river;
                            So might I, leaping from some headlong steep,
                            With all my waters lost in thine for ever,
                            Be hurried onwards to the unfathomed deep.
                        
                        
                        
                            I would—what would I not? O foolish dreaming!
                            My words are but as leaves by autumn shed,
                            That, in the faded moonlight idly gleaming,
                            Drop on the grave where all our love lies dead.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        V.
                        
                            DOST thou remember ever, for my sake,
                            When we two rowed upon the rock?bound lake?
                            How the wind?fretted waters blew their spray
                            About our brows like blossom?falls of May 
                            One memorable day?
                        
                        
                            Dost thou remember the glad mouth that cried—
                            “Were it not sweet to die now side by side,
                            To lie together tangled in the deep
                            Close as the heart?beat to the heart—so keep 
                            The everlasting sleep?”
                        
                        
                        
                            Dost thou remember? Ah, such death as this
                            Had set the seal upon my heart’s young bliss!
                            But, wrenched asunder, severed and apart,
                            Life knew a deadlier death: the blighting smart 
                            Which only kills the heart.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        
                            O MOON, large golden summer moon,
                            Hanging between the linden trees,
                            Which in the intermittent breeze
                            Beat with the rhythmic pulse of June!
                        
                        
                            O night?air, scented through and through
                            With honey?coloured flower of lime,
                            Sweet now as in that other time
                            When all my heart was sweet as you!
                        
                        
                            The sorcery of this breathing bloom 
                            Works like enchantment in my brain,
                            Till, shuddering back to life again,
                            My dead self rises from its tomb.
                        
                        
                        
                            And, lovely with the love of yore,
                            Its white ghost haunts the moon?white ways;
                            But, when it meets me face to face,
                            Flies trembling to the grave once more.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        
                            WHY will you haunt me unawares,
                            And walk into my sleep,
                            Pacing its shadowy thoroughfares,
                            Where long?dried perfume scents the airs,
                            While ghosts of sorrow creep,
                            Where on Hope’s ruined altar?stairs,
                            With ineffectual beams,
                            The Moon of Memory coldly glares
                            Upon the land of dreams?
                        
                        
                            My yearning eyes were fain to look
                            Upon your hidden face;
                            Their love, alas! you could not brook,
                            But in your own you mutely took
                            My hand, and for a space
                            
                            You wrung it till I throbbed and shook,
                            And woke with wildest moan
                            And wet face channelled like a brook
                            With your tears or my own.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        
                            WHEN you wake from troubled slumbers
                            With a dream?bewildered brain,
                            And old leaves which no man numbers
                            Chattering tap against the pane;
                            And the midnight wind is wailing
                            Till your very life seems quailing
                             As the long gusts shudder and sigh:
                            Know you not that homeless cry
                            Is my love’s, which cannot die,
                            Wailing through Eternity?
                        
                        
                            When beside the glowing embers,
                            Sitting in the twilight lone,
                            Drop on drop you hear November’s
                            Melancholy monotone,
                            
                            As the heavy rain comes sweeping,
                            With a sound of weeping, weeping,
                            Till your blood is chilled with fears;
                            Know you not those falling tears,
                            Flowing fast through years on years,
                            For my sobs within your ears?
                        
                        
                            When with dolorous moan the billows
                            Surge around where, far and wide,
                            Leagues on leagues of sea?worn hollows
                            Throb with thunders of the tide,
                            And the weary waves in breaking
                            Fill you, thrill you, as with aching
                            Memories of our love of yore
                            Where you pace the sounding shore,
                            Hear you not, through roll and roar,
                            Soul call soul for evermore?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        
                            IN a lonesome burial?place
                            Crouched a mourner white of face;
                            Wild her eyes—unheeding
                            Circling pomp of night and day—
                            Ever crying, “Well away,
                            Love lies a?bleeding!”
                        
                        
                            And her sighs were like a knell, 
                            And her tears for ever fell,
                            With their warm rain feeding
                            That purpureal flower, alas!
                            Trailing prostrate in the grass,
                            Love lies a?bleeding.
                        
                        
                        
                            Through the yews’ black?tufted gloom
                            Crimson light dripped on the tomb,
                            Funeral shadows breeding:
                            In the sky the sun’s light shed
                            Dyed the earth one awful red—
                            Love lies a—bleeding.
                        
                        
                            Came grey mists, and blanching cloud
                            Bore one universal shroud;
                            Came the bowed moon leading,
                            From the infinite afar
                            Star that rumoured unto star—
                            Love lies a—bleeding.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        X.
                        
                            ON life’s long round by chance I found
                            A dell impearled with dew,
                            Where hyacinths, gushing from the ground,
                            Lend to the earth heaven’s native hue 
                            Of holy blue.
                        
                        
                            I sought that plot of azure light
                            Once more in gloomy hours;
                            But snow had fallen overnight
                            And wrapped in mortuary white
                            My fairy ring of flowers.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        
                            AH, yesterday was dark and drear,
                            My heart was deadly sore;
                            Without thy love it seemed, my Dear,
                            That I could live no more.
                        
                        
                            And yet I laugh and sing to?day;
                            Care or care not for me,
                            Thou canst not take the love away
                            With which I worship thee.
                        
                        
                            And if to?morrow, Dear, I live,
                            My heart I shall not break:
                            For still I hold it that to give
                            Is sweeter than to take.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        
                            YEA, the roses are still on fire
                            With the bygone heat of July,
                            Though the least little wind drifting by
                            Shake a rose?leaf or two from the brier,
                            Be it never so soft a sigh.
                        
                        
                            Ember of love still glows and lingers
                            Deep at the red heart’s smouldering core;
                            With the sudden passionate throb of yore
                            We shook as our eyes and clinging fingers
                            Met once only to meet no more.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        
                            WE met as strangers on life’s lonely way,
                            And yet it seemed we knew each other well;
                            There was no end to what thou hadst to say,
                            Or to the thousand things I found to tell.
                            My heart, long silent, at thy voice that day
                            Chimed in my breast like to a silver bell.
                        
                        
                            How much we spoke, and yet still left untold
                            Some secret half revealed within our eyes:
                            Didst thou not love me once in ages old?
                            Had I not called thee with importunate cries,
                            And, like a child left sobbing in the cold,
                            Listened to catch from far they fond replies?
                        
                        
                        
                            We met as strangers, and as such we part;
                            Yet all my life seems leaving me with thine;
                            Ah, to be clasped once only heart to heart,
                            If only once to feel that thou wert mine!
                            These lips are locked, and yet I know thou art
                            That all in all for which my soul did pine.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        
                            YOU make the sunshine of my heart
                            And its tempestuous shower;
                            Sometimes the thought of you is like
                            A lilac bush in flower,
                            Yea, honey?sweet as hives in May.
                            And then the pang of it will strike
                            My bosom with a fiery smart, 
                            As though love’s deeply planted dart
                            Drained all its life away.
                        
                        
                            My thoughts hum round you, Dear, like bees
                            About a bank of thyme,
                            Or round the yellow blossoms of
                            The heavy?scented lime.
                            
                            Ah, sweeter you than honeydew,
                            Yet dark the ways of love,
                            For it has robbed my soul of peace,
                            And marred my life and turned heart’s?ease
                            Into funereal rue.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        
                            DEAR, when I look into your eyes
                            My hurts are healed, my heart grows whole;
                            The barren places in my soul,
                            Like waste lands under April skies,
                            Break into flower beneath your eyes.
                        
                        
                            Ah, life grows lovely where you are;
                            Only to think of you gives light
                            To my dark heart, within whose night
                            Your image, though you bide afar,
                            Glows like a lake?reflected star.
                        
                        
                        
                            Dare I crave more than only this:
                            A thrill of love, a transient smile
                            To gladden all my world awhile?
                            No more, alas! Is mortal bliss
                            Not transient as a lover’s kiss?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        
                            AH, if you knew how soon and late
                            My eyes long for a sight of you,
                            Sometimes in passing by my gate
                            You’d linger until fall of dew, 
                            If you but knew!
                        
                        
                            Ah, if you knew how sick and sore
                            My life flags for the want of you,
                            Straightway you’d enter at the door
                            And clasp my hand between your two, 
                            If you but knew!
                        
                        
                            Ah, if you knew how lost and lone
                            I watch and weep and wait for you,
                            You’d press my heart close to your own
                            Till love had healed me through and through, 
                            If you but knew!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        
                            YOUR looks have touched my soul with bright 
                            Ineffable emotion;
                            As moonbeams on a stormy night
                            Illume with transitory light
                            A seagull on her lonely flight 
                            Across the lonely ocean.
                        
                        
                            Fluttering from out the gloom and roar, 
                            On fitful wing she flies,
                            Moon?white above the moon?washed shore;
                            Then, drowned in darkness as before,
                            She’s lost, as I when lit no more 
                            By your beloved eyes.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        
                            OH, brown Eyes with long black lashes,
                            Young brown Eyes,
                            Depths of night from which there flashes
                            Lightning as of summer skies,
                            Beautiful brown Eyes!
                        
                        
                            In your veiled mysterious splendour
                            Passion lies
                            Sleeping, but with sudden tender
                            Dreams that fill with vague surmise
                            Beautiful brown Eyes.
                        
                        
                        
                            All my soul, with yearning shaken,
                            Asks in sighs—
                            Who will see your heart awaken,
                            Love’s divine sunrise
                            In those young brown Eyes?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        
                            ONCE on a golden day,
                            In the golden month of May,
                            I gave my heart away—
                            Little birds were singing.
                        
                        
                            I culled my heart in truth,
                            Wet with the dews of youth,
                            For love to take, forsooth—
                            Little flowers were springing.
                        
                        
                            Love sweetly laughed at this,
                            And between kiss and kiss
                            Fled with my heart in his:
                            Winds warmly blowing.
                        
                        
                        
                            And with his sun and shower
                            Love kept my heart in flower,
                            As in the greenest bower
                            Rose richly glowing.
                        
                        
                            Till, worn at evensong,
                            Love dropped my heart among
                            Stones by the way ere long;
                            Misprizèd token.
                        
                        
                            There in the wind and rain,
                            Trampled and rent in twain,
                            Ne’er to be whole again,
                            My heart lies broken.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        
                            WHAT magic is there in thy mien,
                            What sorcery in thy smile,
                            Which charms away all cark and care,
                            Which turns the foul days into fair,
                            And for a little while
                            Changes this disenchanted scene
                            From the sere leaf into the green,
                            Transmuting with love’s golden wand
                            This beggared life to fairyland?
                        
                        
                            My heart goes forth to thee, oh friend,
                            As some poor pilgrim to a shrine,
                            A pilgrim who has come from far
                            
                            To seek his spirit’s folding star,
                            And sees the taper shine;
                            The goal to which his wanderings tend,
                            Where want and weariness shall end,
                            And kneels ecstatically blest
                            Because his heart hath entered rest.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        HEART’S?EASE.
                        
                            AS opiates to the sick on wakeful nights,
                            As light to flowers, as flowers in poor men’s rooms,
                            As to the fisher when the tempest glooms
                            The cheerful twinkling of his village lights;
                            As emerald isles to flagging swallow flights,
                            As roses garlanding with tendrilled blooms
                            The unweeded hillocks of forgotten tombs,
                            As singing birds on cypress?shadowed heights,
                        
                        
                            Thou art to me—a comfort past compare—
                            For thy joy?kindling presence, sweet as May
                            Sets all my nerves to music, makes away
                            With sorrow and the numbing frost of care,
                            Until the influence of thine eyes’ bright sway
                            Has made life’s glass go up from foul to fair.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        UNTIMELY LOVE.
                        
                            PEACE, throbbing heart, nor let us shed one tear
                            O’er this late love’s unseasonable glow;
                            Sweet as a violet blooming in the snow,
                            The posthumous offspring of the widowed year,
                            That smells of March when all the world is sere,
                            And, while around the hurtling sea?winds blow—
                            Which twist the oak and lay the pine tree low—
                            Stands childlike in the storm and has no fear.
                        
                        
                            Poor helpless blossom orphaned of the sun,
                            How could it thus brave winter’s rude estate?
                            Oh love, more helpless love, why bloom so late,
                            Now that the flower?time of the year is done?
                            Since thy dear course must end when scarce begun,
                            Nipped by the cold touch of untoward fate.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE AFTER?GLOW.
                        
                            IT is a solemn evening, golden?clear—
                            The Alpine summits flame with rose?lit snow
                            And headlands purpling on wide seas below,
                            And clouds and woods and arid rocks appear
                            Dissolving in the sun’s own atmosphere
                            And vast circumference of light, whose slow
                            Transfiguration—glow and after?glow—
                            Turns twilight earth to a more luminous sphere.
                        
                        
                            Oh heart, I ask, seeing that the orb of day
                            Has sunk below, yet left to sky and sea
                            His glory’s spiritual after?shine:
                            I ask if Love, whose sun hath set for thee,
                            May not touch grief with his memorial ray,
                            And lend to loss itself a joy divine?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        L’ENVOI.
                        
                            THOU art the goal for which my spirit longs; 
                            As dove on dove,
                            Bound for one home, I send thee all my songs 
                            With all my love.
                        
                        
                            Thou art the haven with fair harbour lights; 
                            Safe locked in thee,
                            My heart would anchor after stormful nights 
                            Alone at sea.
                        
                        
                            Thou art the rest of which my life is fain, 
                            The perfect peace;
                            Absorbed in thee the world, with all its pain 
                            And toil, would cease.
                        
                        
                        
                            Thou art the heaven to which my soul would go! 
                            O dearest eyes,
                            Lost in your light you would turn hell below 
                            To Paradise.
                        
                        
                            Thou all in all for which my heart?blood yearns! 
                            Yea, near or far—
                            Where the unfathomed ether throbs and burns 
                            With star on star,
                        
                        
                            Or where, enkindled by the fires of June, 
                            The fresh earth glows,
                            Blushing beneath the mystical white moon 
                            Through rose on rose—
                        
                        
                            Thee, thee I see, thee feel in all live things, 
                            Beloved one;
                            In the first bird which tremulously sings 
                            Ere peep of sun;
                        
                        
                        
                            In the last nestling orphaned in the hedge, 
                            Rocked to and fro,
                            When dying summer shudders in the sedge, 
                            And swallows go;
                        
                        
                            When roaring snows rush down the mountain 
                            March floods with rills,
                            Or April lightens through the living grass 
                            In daffodils;
                        
                        
                            When poppied cornfields simmer in the heat 
                            With tare and thistle,
                            And, like winged clouds above the mellow wheat
                            The starlings whistle;
                        
                        
                            When stained with sunset the wide moorland glare
                            In the wild weather,
                            And clouds with flaming craters smoke and flare
                            Red o’er red heather;
                        
                        
                        
                            When the bent moon, on frostbound midnights waking, 
                            Leans to the snow
                            Like some world?mother whose deep heart is breaking 
                            O’er human woe.
                        
                        
                            As the round sun rolls red into the ocean, 
                            Till all the sea
                            Glows fluid gold, even so life’s mazy motion 
                            Is dyed with thee:
                        
                        
                            For as the wave?like years subside and roll, 
                            O heart’s desire,
                            Thy soul glows interfused within my soul, 
                            A quenchless fire.
                        
                        
                            Yea, thee I feel, all storms of life above, 
                            Near though afar;
                            O thou my glorious morning star of love, 
                            And evening star.
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
                Publisher's Catalog
                
                    Printed by William Clowes and Sons, Limited, 
                    London and Beccles.
                
                
                
                    Works By Mathilde Blind.
                    Poetry.
                            The Prophecy of Saint Oran, and other Poems.
                            The Heather on Fire.
                        
                    Prose Fiction. 
                            Tarantella: A Romance.
                        
                    Monographs. 
                            George Eliot.
                            Madame Roland.
                        
                
            
            
            
                Opinions of the Press.
                
                    The Prophecy of Saint Oran, and Other Poems.
                    
                        “There is perhaps no phase of our history more capable of poetic
                            treatment than the sainted lives of the Irish monks who first spread the
                            Christian faith over the western shores of Scotland, and yet it would be
                            difficult to point to a single representative poem having Saint Columba
                            and the devoted band of his disciples for its heroes. An attempt at
                            filling up this gap has recently been made by Miss Blind in a narrative
                            poem devoted to the fate of St. Oran, the friend and disciple of St.
                            Columba.... Apart from the sonorous beauty of her lines, there is in her
                            diction a straightforwardness and simplicity, and an entire absence of
                            affectation and false sentiment, which, combined with considerable power
                            of characterization, make her volume a remarkable contribution to
                            English literature.”
                        —Times, September 26, 1881.
                    
                    
                        “To disturb the motif of a legend is
                            always a bold, and mostly a rash proceeding.... And yet so skilfully is
                            the story handled that the main incidents of the legend do not lose, but
                            gain by this disturbance of the motif,
                            and the character of Oran, which with the old motif could only have presented the single side of the
                            religious enthusiast, becomes a character exhibiting that complexity
                            which modern taste demands.... Directness of style and lucidity of
                            narrative are the characteristic excellences of the poem. There are few
                            contemporary poets who could have done so much dramatic business in so
                            few lines.... In each of the sonnets there is a thought that is well
                            expressed, and worth expressing.”
                        —Athenæum, July 30, 1881.
                    
                    
                        “It is in the domain of character that the poem is distinguished by its
                            highest excellence. There is an ideal statuesqueness embodied in the
                            person of St. Columba such as is felt to possess a powerful appeal to
                            the imagination. The poem embraces many passions, of which the most
                            tender and beautiful finds expression in the exquisite creation of the
                            radiant golden?haired girl for whose love St. Oran breaks his vow of
                            chastity. But the really powerful contribution to our knowledge of
                            character which this book contains is fittingly centred in St. Oran
                            himself. A dramatic instinct of high order finds utterance in his
                            struggles between opposing passions. Nor are the metrical excellences of
                            the poem less conspicuous.... If one were in need of some single phrase
                            by which to denote the ultimate effect produced by this book, one might
                            say that it seems the most mature of all recent first
                            efforts, even of established rank.”
                        —Academy, July 16, 1881.
                    
                    
                        “In the choice of a subject for her chief poem she has been singularly
                            fortunate.... That a story such as this is full of poetical
                            suggestiveness is obvious, and Miss Blind has proved herself equal to
                            the occasion. She has avoided writing anything approaching to a
                            ‘tendency poem.’ She metes out justice with an equal hand to all her
                            characters. The genuine enthusiasm and religious zeal of the monks are
                            set forth in language as inspired as is the final protest of St. Oran
                            against their narrow fanaticism; and one of the best passages in the
                            book is indeed the Sermon in which St. Columba announces the Gospel of
                            love and redemption to the islanders.”
                        —Pall Mall Gazette, August 22,
                            1881.
                    
                    
                    
                        “‘The Prophecy of Saint Oran’ is skilfully told and vigorously written.
                            In the description of nature and scenery; in the delineation of
                            character; and in the management of singularly difficult positions,
                            there is visible a firm and practised hand, a bold and unmistakable
                            power. ‘The Street Children’s Dance’ not unworthily ranks with some of
                            the touching pieces of Hood, Mrs. Barrett Browning, and others.”
                        —British Mail, September 1, 1881.
                    
                    
                        “The only excuse for street music that can reasonably be considered valid
                            is the touching plea for public toleration which is embodied in Miss
                            Mathilde Blind’s poem, wherein the spectacle of poor children dancing
                            round an organ is as pathetically moralized and as tender and full of
                            loving pity as Mrs. Browning’s ‘Cry of the Children.’”
                        —Daily Telegraph, September 1,
                            1881.
                    
                    
                        “The poem is rich in true description of sea and sky and mountain, and
                            glows in sympathy with the deeper feelings which stir humanity. There
                            has been published no poem of such creative suggestiveness as this for
                            many a day, and we hope and believe that it is the precursor of other
                            work by the same unfaltering hand. This poem is a true work of art,
                            complete and beautiful. There is in the volume other work which shows a
                            master’s touch.... ”
                        —Manchester Examiner and Times, July 1,
                                1882.
                    
                    
                        “Il y a là bien plus qu’une simple facilité de
                            versification. Le récit du poeme d’ouverture est grand et fort, la
                            manière de raconter est pleine de poésie et d’effet. Depuis la mort de
                            Mrs. Barrett Browning, nous n’avons point eu de poésie aussi hautement
                            inspirée qui ait jailli d’une source féminine.”
                        —Le Livre, Paris, October 10, 1881.
                    
                
                
                    The Heather on Fire: A Tale of the Highland Clearances.
                    
                        “Miss Blind has produced one of the most noticeable and moving poems
                            which recent years have added to our shelves.... As a singer with a
                            message her attempt is praiseworthy, and her performance is fairly
                            self?consistent. It is eminently homogeneous; the passion once felt, the
                            inspiration once obeyed, the well?head pours forth its stream in a
                            strong and uniform current, which knows no pause until its impulse
                            ceases.... The story is pathetic at once in its simplicity and in its
                            terror.... We congratulate the author upon her boldness in choosing a
                            subject of our own time, fertile in what is pathetic, and free from any
                            taint of the vulgar and conventional. Poetry of late years has tended
                            too much towards motives of a merely fanciful and abstruse, sometimes a
                            plainly artificial, character; and we have had much of lyrical energy or
                            attraction, with little of the real marrow of human life, the flesh and
                            blood of man and woman. Positive subject?matter, the emotion which
                            inheres in actual life, the very smile and the very tear and heart?pang,
                            are, after all, precious to poetry, and we have them here. ‘The Heather
                            on Fire’ may possibly prove to be something of a new departure, and one
                            that was certainly not superfluous.”
                        —Athenæum, July 17, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “Miss Blind has chosen for her new poem one of those terrible Highland
                            clearances which stain the history of Scotch landlordism. Though her
                            tale is a fiction it is too well founded on fact.... It may be said
                            generally of the poem that the most difficult scenes are those in which
                            Miss Blind succeeds best; and on the whole we are inclined to think that
                            its greatest and most surprising success is the picture of the poor old
                            soldier Rory driven mad by the burning of his wife. In his frenzy he
                            mixes up his old battles with the French and the descent of the
                            landlord’s ejectors upon the village.”
                        —Academy, August 7, 1886.
                    
                    
                    
                        “In this versified tale of Highland clearances, Mathilde Blind has, with
                            genuine poetic instinct, selected a family the fortunes of which form
                            the burden of her story.... Literature and poetry are never seen at
                            their best save in contact with actual life.... This little book abounds
                            in vivid delineation of character, and is redolent with the noblest
                            human sympathy.”
                        —Newcastle Daily Chronicle, July 3,
                            1886.
                    
                    
                        “A subject which has painfully preoccupied public opinion is, in the poem
                            entitled ‘The Heather on Fire,’ treated with characteristic power by
                            Miss MathildeBlind. Irish evictions have offered so convenient a theme
                            to party strife, that the sufferings of the unhappy Highland crofters
                            have not always met with the compassion they were so well calculated to
                            inspire. In eloquent and forcible verse, Miss Blind tells the tale of
                            their wrongs, their resistance to the hard fate imposed upon them, and
                            describes the bitter grief with which, 
                                
                                    ‘Crowding on the decks with hungry eyes,
                                    Straining towards the coast that flies and flies,’
                                
                            those among them driven into exile look on the shores to which
                            many bid an eternal farewell. Both as a narrative and descriptive poem
                            ‘The Heather on Fire is equally remarkable.’
                        —Morning Post, July 30, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “We are happy in being able to extend to the present poem a welcome
                            equally sincere and equally hearty; for it is a poem that is rich not
                            only in power and beauty but in that ‘enthusiasm of humanity’ which
                            stirs and moves us, and of which so much contemporary verse is almost
                            painfully deficient. Miss Blind does not possess her theme; she is
                            possessed by it, as was Mrs. Browning when she wrote‘Aurora Leigh.’...
                            We can best describe the kind of her success by noting the fact that
                            while engaged in the perusal of her book we do not say, ‘What a fine
                            poem!’ but ‘What a terrible story!’ or, more probably still, say nothing
                            at all, but read on and on under the spell of a great horror and an
                            over?powering pity. Poetry of which this can be said needs no other
                            recommendation, and, therefore, we need not unduly lengthen our review
                            of ‘The Heather on Fire’”
                        —Manchester Examiner and Times, September 1,
                                1886.
                    
                    
                        “There are charming pictures of West Highland scenery, in Arran
                            apparently, and of the surroundings and conditions of Highland cottar
                            life.”
                        —Scotsman, July 20, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “In ‘The Heather on Fire,’ she exhibits a clearness and beauty of
                            diction, a rhythmical correctness, a grace and simplicity of style which
                            mark her out as no slavish follower of any poetic ‘school,’ but an
                            unaffected and truthful expression of her own feelings.... Whatever the
                            reader’s opinion may be on the grievances which Miss Blind throws into
                            such fierce light, he cannot fail to be pleased with her graceful tale,
                            so gracefully and simply told.”
                        —Glasgow Herald, July 20, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “Miss Mathilde Blind’s poem is the tragic epic of the old evictions in
                            the Highlands of Scotland. It is a strange fact that the general reader
                            knows more about the siege of Troy, the Norman Conquest, and the Wars of
                            the Roses than about such matters in the very history of our own days as
                            the depopulation of the Highlands of Scotland by the landlords. The old
                            story comes to the front just now by reason of the crofter agitation. In
                            the preface to her fine and touching epic, and in the notes at the end,
                            Miss Blind passes in review some of the facts of the eviction of the
                            Glen Sannox people by the Duke of Hamilton in 1832, where, as she says, 
                                ‘the progress of civilization, which has redeemed many a
                                    wilderness and gladdened the solitary places of the world, has
                                    come with a curse to these Highland glens, and turned green
                                    pastures and golden harvest fields once more into a desert.’
                             The ‘Heather on Fire’ is a poem in four cantos—or
                            ‘Duans’—comprising about two hundred stanzas.
                        School Board Chronicle, July 10,
                            1886.
                    
                    
                    
                        “It is written in a strain which must of necessity appeal to the
                            sympathies of all grades of society, and at the same time it is
                            eminently poetical, both in thought and rhythm.”
                        Western Antiquary, August, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “A book like this forms an admirable corrective to the harsh and
                            cold?blooded theories of such landlords as the Duke of Argyll on the
                            rights of his class.”
                        —Cambridge Independent Press, August,
                            1886.
                    
                    
                        “There is a sonorous beauty, a classic dignity and depth of pathos
                            throughout her four cantos, and a vivid and thrilling description is
                            given of the industrious hamlets, the contented, happy people, and the
                            ruthless manner in which the evictions were effected by the stewards and
                            ground?officers.”
                        —Elgin Courant, August, 1886.
                    
                
                
                    Tarantella: A Romance.
                    
                        “The author of this two?volumed romance is favourably known by other
                            works, and by the appreciative ‘Life of George Eliot.’ The strange
                            effects of the bite of a tarantula spider, so firmly believed in by the
                            Italian peasantry, and the marvellous power of musical enthusiasm,
                            supply the motive of the story; and the characters are portrayed with
                            great force, pathos, and a touch of homely humour.”
                        —Bookseller, Christmas, 1884.
                    
                    
                        “Miss Blind may be congratulated on ‘Tarantella,’ her first novel. In the
                                récit (as we have called it) of
                            the musician, Emanuel Sturm, nearly all the interest of the book is
                            concentrated. The violinist, poor and unknown, finds himself at Capri.
                            Accident brings him, one evening, to a frightened group of women, one of
                            whom has just been bitten by the tarantula, and, according to the
                            popular superstition, he is implored to play, in order to drive the
                            poison out of her. He refuses at first, but afterwards consents, and
                            finding himself almost supernaturally inspired, plays an improvised
                            ‘Tarantella’ throughout a whole stormy night, finally curing the girl.
                            The tune thus strangely hit on spreads, and ultimately makes him famous,
                            but the love he has conceived for his Antonella brings him almost as
                            much misery as his music brings him fame.”
                        —Pall Mall Gazette, February 5,
                            1885.
                    
                    
                        “Admiration of the delicate sketching now in vogue should not blind us to
                            the very opposite kind of charm of which ‘Tarantella’ is full. Entirely
                            poetical in conception (save that it is not written in metre),
                            ‘Tarantella’ is more essentially a poem than many a narrative written in
                            smooth and elegant verse.... ‘Tarantella’ is indeed full of strange
                            originality and scenic effects of uncommon powers. The dance among the
                            ruins is not likely to be soon forgotten by the most unimaginative of
                            readers, and it is rarely, we think, that in an English novel the
                            psychology of the poetic temperament has been touched by a hand so
                            delicate and at the same time so strong.”
                        —Athenæum, January 17, 1885.
                    
                    
                        “There is abundant imagination, and the language is generally fresh and
                            vigorous.... The author finds many opportunities of introducing scenes
                            from German life, which are evidently written with intimate
                            knowledge.... This is distinctly a novel to read.”
                        —Echo, June 16, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “This powerful and pathetic tale has carried us more completely out of
                            ourselves and along with it than any work of fiction we have read for
                            many a day.... Her (Miss Blind’s) word?pictures glow with rich local
                            colours; she is a complete mistress of the art of dramatic cause and
                            effect. When once fairly under weigh, she never allows the interest to
                            flag for a single moment. Thus it is only when we have laid down the
                            final volume that we have time or inclination to  pause and recognize the care and art which
                            have contributed to this triumphant result; to turn back... and dwell on
                            the author’s extraordinary knowledge of the human heart—extraordinary
                            alike for its depth and its range. As for the wit and humour with which
                            the book is freely sprinkled, the poetic and artistic spirit which
                            pervades it throughout, they can only be appreciated on a second or a
                            third perusal.”
                        —Life, December 25, 1884.
                    
                    
                        “‘Tarantella’ is extremely clever, and the treatment of the weird subject
                            she has chosen picturesque in the extreme. The local colouring is
                            especially fine and her character studies extremely strong. Thrice
                            welcome in its two?volume form, ‘Tarantella’ is a book bound to make its
                            mark.”
                        —Whitehall Review, December 11,
                            1884.
                    
                    
                        “We have very ingenious resources in music and the bite of the tarantula,
                            which alone music is said to heal. Notwithstanding the sense of
                            improbability, we follow the strange fortunes of Antonella, Countess
                            Ogotshka, and her almost magical transformation with interest Mina, the
                            innocent girl, her friend, is well delineated, and Emanuel Sturm, the
                            wonderful violinist and composer, for whose portrait Paganini has
                            doubtless has been available, is original, no less than his friend the
                            painter.”
                        —British Quarterly, January, 1885.
                    
                    
                        “‘Tarantella’ is a very clever story, with plenty of action and not
                            without tragic incidents. The author has also plenty of humour, and
                            there is at least as much light as shade in the book. Mina is not less
                            delightful than the Countess is objectionable, in spite of her beauty
                            and her daring.”
                        —London Figaro, November 20, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “We shall not spoil the story by hinting at its dénouement. It is a deeply interesting one; and the
                            characters, three of them at least, are sufficiently original to give
                            the author a high rank as a novelist.... The book abounds in striking
                            and interesting pictures of Italian and German life and scenery.”
                        —Dublin Mail, November, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “‘Tarantella’ is, indeed, a novel unlike the common—full of power and
                            imagination and originality.... It would be unjust to deny to this very
                            remarkable book a large share of what the world calls genius.”
                        —Melbourne Argus, March 14, 1885.
                    
                    
                        “By her recent works, ‘The Prophecy of Saint Oran’ and the ‘Life of
                            George Eliot,’ Miss Blind brought herself before the public as a writer
                            of considerable ability, and her latest novel will do much to increase
                            her reputation....‘Tarantella’ deserves to be classed among the best
                            novels of the present day.”
                        —Scottish News, June 15, 1886.
                    
                    
                        “There is an inherent charm about ‘Tarantella’ which will be apparent to
                            the reader from a perusal of the first chapter. This agreeable quality
                            does not end there, however. The whole of the tale, which is divided
                            into forty?six chapters, is permeated with features of an exceptionally
                            attractive description. Not the least noteworthy character of the story
                            is its novelty. Most of the incidents, which are carefully elaborated
                            and follow in logical sequence, are conspicuous for an airy freshness in
                            nature and treatment. Every chapter has its specific purpose, there
                            being a uniform overflow of idea and sentiment; and each development of
                            the pleasing romance opens to the mental vision of the thoughtful reader
                            incidents of a more or less engrossing description. Continental scenes
                            and customs are described with freeness and perspicuity, and the varied
                            and eventful adventures of the principal characters, pleasingly typical,
                            it may be mentioned, of the romanticism invariably associated with
                            ‘love’s young dream,’ when, as in the present instance, there is a
                            combination of youth and beauty—are recorded with a poetical fervour and
                            gracefulness of diction which are certain to be generally admired.”
                        —Western Daily Press, June 2, 1886.
                    
                
            
        
    
