
     ----CITATION----
        Craik, Dinah Maria Mulock (1826-1887). A Woman’s Thoughts About Women. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 368 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (March 3, 1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7175
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    A WOMAN’S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.
                
                By THE AUTHOR OF “JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN,” &c.
                        &c.
                
                    
                        “He that good thinketh, good may do,
                        And God will help him thereunto:
                        For was never good work wrought
                        Without beginning of good thought.”
                    
                
                IN ONE VOLUME.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.
                    SUCCESSORS TO HENRY COLBURN,
                    13 GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
                
                1858.
                The right of Translation is reserved.
            
            
            
                
                    LONDON: 
                    Printed by G. BARCLAY, Castle St. Leicester Sq.
                
            
            
            
                PREFACE.
                THESE “Thoughts,” a portion of which originally appeared in “Chambers’
                    Journal,” are, I wish distinctly to state, only Thoughts. They do
                    not pretend to solve any problems, to lay down any laws, to decide out of one
                    life’s experience and within the limits of one volume, any of those great
                    questions which have puzzled generations, and will probably puzzle generations
                    more. They lift the banner of no party; and assert the opinions of no clique. They do not even attempt an originality, which, in treating of a subject like the
                    present, would be either dangerous or impossible.
                In this book, therefore, many women will find simply the expression of what they
                    have themselves, consciously or unconsciously, oftentimes thought; and the more
                    deeply, perhaps, because it has never come to the surface in words or writing.
                    Those who do the most, often talk—sometimes think—the least:: yet thinkers,
                    talkers, and doers, being in earnest, achieve their appointed end. The thinkers
                    put wisdom into the mouth of the speakers, and both strive together to animate
                    and counsel the doers. Thus all work harmoniously together; and verily 
                        “Was never good work wrought,
                        Without beginning of good thought.”
                    
                
                In the motto which I have chosen for its title?page, lies at once the purpose and
                    preface of this my book. Had it not been planned and completed, honestly,
                    carefully, solemnly, even fearfully, with a keen sense of all it might do, or
                    leave undone; and did not I believe it to be in some degree a good book, likely
                    to effect some good, I would never have written or published it. How much good
                    it may do, or how little, is not mine either to know, to speculate, or to
                    decide.
                I have written it, I hope, as humbly as conscientiously; and thus I leave it.
            
        
        
        
            A WOMAN’S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                Something to do.
                I PREMISE that these thoughts do not concern married women, for whom
                    there are always plenty to think, and who have generally quite enough to think
                    of for themselves and those belonging to them. They have cast their lot for good
                    or ill, have realised in greater or less degree the natural destiny of our sex.
                    They must find out its comforts, cares, and responsibilities, and make the best
                    of all. It is the single women, belonging to
                    those supernumerary ranks, which political economists tell us, are yearly
                    increasing, who most need thinking about.
                First, in their early estate, when they have so much in their possession—youth,
                    bloom, and health giving them that temporary influence over the other sex which
                    may result, and is meant to result, in a permanent one. Secondly, when this
                    sovereignty is passing away, the chance of marriage lessening, or wholly ended,
                    or voluntarily set aside, and the individual making up her mind to that which,
                    respect for Grandfather Adam and Grandmother Eve must compel us to admit, is an
                    unnatural condition of being.
                Why this undue proportion of single women should almost always result from
                    over?civilisation, and whether, since society’s advance is usually indicated by
                    the advance, morally and intellectually, of its women—this progress, by raising
                    women’s ideal standard of the “holy es? tate,”
                    will not necessarily cause a decline in the very unholy estate
                    which it is most frequently made—are questions too wide to be entered upon here.
                    We have only to deal with facts—with a certain acknowledged state of things,
                    perhaps incapable of remedy, but by no means incapable of amelioration.
                But, granted these facts, and leaving to wiser heads the explanation of them—if
                    indeed there be any—it seems advisable, or at least allowable, that any woman
                    who has thought a good deal about the matter, should not fear to express in
                    word—or deed, which is better,—any conclusions, which out of her own observation
                    and experience she may have arrived at. And looking around upon the middle
                    classes, which form the staple stock of the community, it appears to me that the
                    chief canker at the root of women’s lives is the want of something to do.
                Herein I refer, as this chapter must be understood especially to refer, not to
                    those whom ill or good
                        fortune—query, is it not often the latter?—has forced to earn
                    their bread; but “to young ladies,” who have never been brought up to do
                    anything. Tom, Dick, and Harry, their brothers, has each had it knocked into him
                    from school?days that he is to do something, to be somebody. Counting?house,
                    shop, or college, afford him a clear future on which to concentrate all his
                    energies and aims. He has got the grand pabulum of the human soul—occupation. If any inherent want in his
                    character, any unlucky combination of circumstances, nullifies this, what a poor
                    creature the man becomes!—what a dawdling, moping, sitting?over?the?fire,
                    thumb?twiddling, lazy, ill?tempered animal! And why? “Oh, poor fellow! ’tis
                    because he has got nothing to do!”
                Yet this is precisely the condition of women for a third, a half, often the whole
                    of their existence.
                That Providence ordained it so—made men to work, and women to be idle—is a
                    doctrine that few will be bold enough to assert
                    openly. Tacitly they do, when they preach up lovely uselessness, fascinating
                    frivolity, delicious helplessness—all those polite impertinences and poetical
                    degradations to which the foolish, lazy, or selfish of our sex are prone to
                    incline an ear, but which any woman of common sense must repudiate as insulting
                    not only her womanhood but her Creator.
                Equally blasphemous, and perhaps even more harmful, is the outcry about ”the
                    equality of the sexes;“ the frantic attempt to force women, many of whom are
                    either ignorant of or unequal for their own duties—into the position and duties
                    of men. A pretty state of matters would ensue! Who that ever listened for two
                    hours to the verbose confused inanities of a ladies’ committee, would
                    immediately go and give his vote for a female House of Commons? or who, on the
                    receipt of a lady’s letter of business—I speak of the average—would henceforth
                    desire to have our courts of justice stocked
                    with matronly lawyers, and our colleges thronged by 
                        “Sweet girl?graduates with their golden hair?”
                    
                As for finance, in its various branches—if you pause to consider the extreme
                    difficulty there always is in balancing Mrs. Smith's housekeeping?book, or Miss
                    Smith’s quarterly allowance, I think, my dear Paternal Smith, you need not be
                    much afraid lest this loud acclaim for “women’s rights” should ever end in
                    pushing you from your stools, in counting?house, college, or elsewhere.
                No; equality of the sexes is not in the nature of things. Man and woman were made
                    for, and not like one another. One only “right” we have to assert in common with
                    mankind—and that is as much in our own hands as theirs—the right of having
                    something to do.
                That both sexes were meant to labour, one “by the sweat of his brow,” the other
                    ”in sor? row to bring forth”—and bring
                    up—“children”—cannot I fancy, be questioned. Nor, when the gradual changes of
                    the civilised world, or some special destiny, chosen or compelled, have
                    prevented that first, highest, and in earlier times almost universal lot, does
                    this accidental fate in any way abrogate the necessity, moral, physical, and
                    mental, for a woman to have occupation in other forms.
                But how few parents ever consider this? Tom, Dick, and Harry, aforesaid, leave
                    school and plunge into life; “the girls” likewise finish their education, come
                    home, and stay at home. That is enough. Nobody thinks it needful to waste a care
                    upon them. Bless them, pretty dears, how sweet they are! papa’s nosegay of
                    beauty to adorn his drawing?room. He delights to give them all they can
                    desire—clothes, amusements, society; he and mamma together take every domestic
                    care off their hands; they have abundance of time and nothing to occupy it;
                    plenty of money, and little use for it; pleasure
                    without end, but not one definite object of interest or employment; flattery and
                    flummery enough, but no solid food whatever to satisfy mind or heart—if they
                    happen to possess either—at the very emptiest and most craving season of both.
                    They have literally nothing whatever to do, except to fall in love; which they
                    accordingly do, the most of them, as fast as ever they can.
                “Many think they are in love, when in fact they are only idle”—is one of the
                    truest sayings of that great wise bore, Imlac, in Rasselas, and it
                    has been proved by many a shipwrecked life, of girls especially. This “falling
                    in love” being usually a mere delusion of fancy, and not the real thing at all,
                    the object is generally unattainable or unworthy. Papa is displeased, mamma
                    somewhat shocked and scandalised; it is a “foolish affair,” and no matrimonial
                    results ensue. There only ensues—what?
                A long, dreary season, of pain, real or ima?
                    ginary, yet not the less real because it is imaginary; of anger and
                    mortification, of impotent struggle—against unjust parents, the girl believes,
                    or, if romantically inclined, against cruel destiny. Gradually this mood wears
                    out; she learns to regard “love” as folly, and turns her whole hope and aim
                    to—matrimony! Matrimony in the abstract; not the man, but any
                    man—any person who will snatch her out of the dulness of her life, and give her
                    something really to live for, something to fill up the hopeless blank of
                    idleness into which her days are gradually sinking.
                Well, the man may come, or he may not. If the latter melancholy result occurs,
                    the poor girl passes into her third stage of young?ladyhood, fritters or mopes
                    away her existence, sullenly bears it, or dashes herself blindfold against its
                    restrictions; is unhappy, and makes her family unhappy; perhaps herself cruelly
                    conscious of all this, yet unable to find the true root of bitter? ness in her heart: not knowing exactly what she
                    wants, yet aware of a morbid, perpetual want of something? What is it?
                Alas! the boys only have had the benefit of that well?known juvenile apophthegm,
                    that 
                        “Satan finds some mischief still
                        For idle hands to do:”
                     it has never crossed the parents’ minds that the rhyme could apply to the
                    delicate digital extremities of the daughters.
                And so their whole energies are devoted to the massacre of old Time. They prick
                    him to death with crochet and embroidery needles; strum him deaf with piano and
                    harp playing—not music; cut him up with morning?visitors, or leave
                    his carcass in ten?minute parcels at every “friend’s” house they can think of.
                    Finally, they dance him defunct at all sort of unnatural hours; and then,
                    rejoicing in the excellent excuse, smother him in sleep for a third of the
                    following day. Thus he dies, a slow,
                    inoffensive, perfectly natural death; and they will never recognise his murder
                    till, on the confines of this world, or from the unknown shores of the next, the
                    question meets them: “What have you done with Time?”—Time, the only mortal gift
                    bestowed equally on every living soul, and, excepting the soul, the only mortal
                    loss which is totally irretrievable.
                Yet this great sin, this irredeemable loss, in many women arises from pure
                    ignorance. Men are taught as a matter of business to recognise the value of
                    time, to apportion and employ it: women rarely or never. The most of them have
                    no definite appreciation of the article as a tangible divisible commodity at
                    all. They would laugh at a mantua?maker who cut up a dress?length into
                    trimmings, and then expected to make out of two yards of silk a full skirt. Yet
                    that the same laws of proportion should apply to time and its measurements—that
                    you cannot dawdle away a whole forenoon, and then attempt to cram into the afternoon the entire business of the
                    day—that every minute’s unpunctuality constitutes a debt or a theft (lucky,
                    indeed, if you yourself are the only party robbed or made creditor thereof!):
                    these slight facts rarely seem to cross the feminine imagination.
                It is not their fault; they have never been “accustomed to business.” They hear
                    that with men “time is money;” but it never strikes them that the same
                    commodity, equally theirs, is to them not money, perhaps, but
                    life—life in its highest form and noblest uses—life bestowed upon
                    every human being, distinctly and individually, without reference to any other
                    being, and for which every one of us, married or unmarried, woman as well as
                    man, will assuredly be held accountable before God.
                My young?lady friends, of from seventeen upwards, your time, and the use of it,
                    is as essential to you as to any father or brother of you all. You are
                    accountable for it just as much as he is. If
                    you waste it, you waste not only your substance, but your very souls—not that
                    which is your own, but your Maker’s.
                Ay, there the core of the matter lies. From the hour that honest Adam and Eve
                    were put into the garden, not—as I once heard some sensible preacher
                    observe—“not to be idle in it, but to dress it and to keep it,” the Father of
                    all has never put one man or one woman into this world without giving each
                    something to do there, in it and for it: some visible, tangible work, to be left
                    behind them when they die.
                Young ladies, ’tis worth a grave thought—what, if called away at eighteen,
                    twenty, or thirty, the most of you would leave behind you when you die? Much
                    embroidery, doubtless; various pleasant, kindly, illegible letters; a moderate
                    store of good deeds; and a cart?load of good intentions. Nothing else—save your
                    name on a tombstone, or lingering for a few more years in family or friendly
                    memory. “Poor dear —! what a nice lively girl
                    she was!” For any benefit accruing through you to your generation, you might as
                    well never have lived at all.
                But “what am I to do with my life?” as once asked me one girl out of the numbers
                    who begin to feel aware that, whether marrying or not, each possesses an
                    individual life, to spend, to use, or to lose. And herein lies the momentous
                    question.
                The difference between man’s vocation and woman’s seems naturally to be this—one
                    is abroad, the other at home: one external, the other internal: one active, the
                    other passive. He has to go and seek out his path; hers usually lies close under
                    her feet. Yet each is as distinct, as honourable, as difficult; and whatever
                    custom may urge to the contrary—if the life is meant to be a worthy or a happy
                    one—each must resolutely and unshrinkingly be trod. But—how?
                A definite answer to this question is simply
                    impossible. So diverse are characters, tastes, capabilities, and circumstances,
                    that to lay down a distinct line of occupation for any six women of one’s own
                    acquaintance, would be the merest absurdity. 
                        “Herein the patient must minister to herself.”
                     To few is the choice so easy, the field of duty so wide, that she need
                    puzzle very long over what she ought to do. Generally—and this is the best and
                    safest guide—she will find her work lying very near at hand: some desultory
                    tastes to condense into regular studies, some faulty household quietly to
                    remodel, some child to teach, or parent to watch over. All these being needless
                    or unattainable, she may extend her service out of the home into the world,
                    which perhaps never at any time so much needed the help of us women. And hardly
                    one of its charities and duties can be done so thoroughly as by a wise and
                    tender woman’s hand.
                
                Here occurs another of those plain rules which are the only guidance possible in
                    the matter—a Bible rule, too—“Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it
                        with thy might.” Question it not, philosophise not over it!—do
                    it!—only do it! Thoroughly and completely, never satisfied with
                    less than perfectness. Be it ever so great or so small, from the founding of a
                    village?school to the making of a collar—do it “with thy might;” and never lay
                    it aside till it is done.
                Each day’s account ought to leave this balance—of something done. Something
                    beyond mere pleasure, one—s own or another’s—though both are good and sweet in
                    their way. Let the superstructure of life be enjoyment, but lets its foundation
                    be in solid work—daily, regular, conscientious work: in its essence and results
                    as distinct as any “business” of men. What they expend for wealth and ambition,
                    shall not we offer for duty and love—the love of our fellow?creatures, or, far
                    higher, the love of God?
                
                “Labour is worship,” says the proverb: also—nay, necessarily so—labour is
                    happiness. Only let us turn from the dreary, colorless lives of the women, old
                    and young, who have nothing to do, to those of their sisters who are always busy
                    doing something; who, believing and accepting the universal law, that pleasure
                    is the mere accident of our being, and work its natural and most holy necessity,
                    have set themselves steadily to seek out and fulfil theirs.
                These are they who are little spoken of in the world at large. I do not include
                    among them those whose labour should spring from an irresistible impulse, and
                    become an absolute vocation, or it is not worth following at all—namely, the
                    professional women, writers, painters, musicians, and the like. I mean those
                    women who lead active, intelligent, industrious lives: lives complete in
                    themselves, and therefore not giving half the trouble to their friends that the
                    idle and foolish virgins do—no, not even in
                    love?affairs. If love comes to them accidentally, (or rather providentially,)
                    and happily, so much the better!—they will not make the worse wives for having
                    been busy maidens. But the “tender passion” is not to them the one grand
                    necessity that it is to aimless lives; they are in no haste to wed: their time
                    is duly filled up; and if never married, still the habitual faculty of
                    usefulness gives them in themselves and with others that obvious value, that
                    fixed standing in society, which will for ever prevent their being drifted away,
                    like most old maids, down the current of the new generation, even as dead
                    May?flies down a stream.
                They have made for themselves a place in the world: the harsh, practical, yet not
                    ill?meaning world, where all find their level soon or late, and where a
                    frivolous young maid sunk into a helpless old one, can no more expect to keep
                    her pristine position than a last year’s leaf to flutter upon a spring bough.
                    But an old maid who deserves well of this same
                    world, by her ceaseless work therein, having won her position, keeps it to the
                    end.
                Not an ill position either, or unkindly; often higher and more honourable than
                    that of many a mother of ten sons. In households, where “Auntie” is the
                    universal referee, nurse, playmate, comforter, and counsellor: in society, where
                    “that nice Miss So?and?so," though neither clever, handsome, nor young, is yet
                    such a person as can neither be omitted nor overlooked: in charitable works,
                    where she is “such a practical body—always knows exactly what to do, and how to
                    do it:” or perhaps, in her own house, solitary indeed, as every single woman’s
                    home must be, yet neither dull nor unhappy in itself, and the nucleus of
                    cheerfulness and happiness to many another home besides.
                She has not married. Under Heaven, her home, her life, her lot, are all of her
                    own making. Bitter or sweet they may have been—it is not ours to meddle with them, but we can any day see
                    their results. Wide or narrow as her circle of influence appears, she has
                    exercised her power to the uttermost, and for good. Whether great or small her
                    talents, she has not let one of them rust for want of use. Whatever the current
                    of her existence may have been, and in whatever circumstances it has placed her,
                    she has voluntarily wasted no portion of it—not a year, not a month, not a
                    day.
                Published or unpublished, this woman’s life is a goodly chronicle, the title?page
                    of which you may read in her quiet countenance; her manner, settled, cheerful,
                    and at ease; her unfailing interest in all things and all people. You will
                    rarely find she thinks much about herself; she has never had time for it. And
                    this her life?chronicle, which, out of its very fulness, has taught her that the
                    more one does, the more one finds to do—she will never flourish in your face, or
                    the face of Heaven, as something uncommonly
                    virtuous and extraordinary. She knows that, after all, she has simply done what
                    it was her duty to do.
                But—and when her place is vacant on earth, this will be said of her assuredly,
                    both here and Otherwhere—“She hath done what she could.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                Self?dependence.
                “IF you want a thing done, go yourself; if not, send.”
                This pithy axiom, of which most men know the full value, is by no means so well
                    appreciated by women. One of the very last things we learn, often through a
                    course of miserable helplessness, heart?burnings, difficulties, contumelies, and
                    pain, is the lesson, taught to boys from their school?days, of
                    self?dependence.
                Its opposite, either plainly or impliedly, has been preached to us all our lives.
                    “An independent young lady”—“a woman who can take care of herself”—and such?like
                    phrases, have become tacitly suggestive of hoydenish? ness, coarseness, strong?mindedness, down to the
                    lowest depth of bloomerism, cigarette?smoking, and talking slang.
                And there are many good reasons, ingrained in the very tenderest core of woman’s
                    nature, why this should be. We are “the weaker vessel”—whether acknowledging it
                    or not, most of us feel this: it becomes man’s duty and delight to show us
                    honour accordingly. And this honour, dear as it may be to him to give, is still
                    dearer to us to receive.
                Dependence is in itself an easy and pleasant thing: dependence upon one we love
                    being perhaps the very sweetest thing in the world. To resign one’s self totally
                    and contentedly into the hands of another; to have no longer any need of
                    asserting one’s rights or one’s personality, knowing that both are as precious
                    to that other as they ever were to ourselves; to cease taking thought about
                    one’s self at all, and rest safe, at ease, assured that in great things and
                    small we shall be guided and cherished, guarded
                    and helped—in fact, thoroughly “taken care of”—how delicious is all this! So
                    delicious, that it seems granted to very few of us, and to fewer still as a
                    permanent condition of being.
                Were it our ordinary lot, were every woman living to have either father, brother,
                    or husband, to watch over and protect her, then, indeed, the harsh but salutary
                    doctrine of self?dependence need never be heard of. But it is not so. In spite
                    of the pretty ideals of poets, the easy taken?for?granted truths of
                    old?fashioned educators of female youth, this fact remains patent to any person
                    of common sense and experience, that in the present day, whether voluntarily or
                    not, one?half of our women are obliged to take care of
                    themselves—obliged to look solely to themselves for maintenance, position,
                    occupation, amusement, reputation, life.
                Of course I refer to the large class for which these Thoughts are meant—the
                    single women; who, while most needing the
                    exercise of self?dependence, are usually the very last in whom it is inculcated,
                    or even permitted. From babyhood they are given to understand that helplessness
                    is feminine and beautiful; helpfulness—except in certain received forms of
                    manifestation—unwomanly and ugly. The boys may do a thousand things which are
                    “not proper for little girls.”
                And herein, I think, lies the great mistake at the root of most women’s
                    education, that the law of their existence is held to be, not Right, but
                    Propriety; a certain received notion of womanhood, which has descended from
                    certain excellent great?grandmothers, admirably suited for some sorts of their
                    descendants, but totally ignoring the fact that each sex is composed of
                    individuals, differing in character almost as much from one another as from the
                    opposite sex. For do we not continually find womanish men and masculine women?
                    and some of the finest types of character we have known among both sexes, are they not often those who combine the
                    qualities of both? Therefore, there must be somewhere a standard of abstract
                    right, including manhood and womanhood, and yet superior to either. One of the
                    first of its common laws, or common duties, is this of self?dependence.
                We women are, no less than men, each of us a distinct existence. In two out of
                    the three great facts of our life we are certainly independent agents, and all
                    our life long we are accountable only, in the highest sense, to our own souls,
                    and the Maker of them. Is it natural, is it right even, that we should be
                    expected—and be ready enough, too, for it is much the easiest way—to hang our
                    consciences, duties, actions, opinions, upon some one else—some individual, or
                    some aggregate of individuals yclept Society? Is this Society to draw up a code
                    of regulations as to what is proper for us to do, and what not? Which latter is
                    supposed to be done for us; if not done, or there happens to be no one to do it, is it to be left undone? Alack, most
                    frequently, whether or not it ought to be, it is!
                Every one’s experience may furnish dozens of cases of poor women suddenly thrown
                    adrift—widows with families, orphan girls, reduced gentlewomen—clinging
                    helplessly to every male relative or friend they have, year after year, sinking
                    deeper in poverty or debt, eating the bitter bread of charity, or compelled to
                    bow an honest pride to the cruellest humiliations, every one of which might have
                    been spared them by the early practice of self?dependence.
                I once heard a lady say—a tenderly?reared and tender?hearted woman—that if her
                    riches made themselves wings, as in these times riches will, she did not know
                    anything in the world that she could turn her hand to, to keep herself from
                    starving. A more pitiable, and, in some sense, humbling confession, could hardly
                    have been made; yet it is that not of hundreds, but of thousands, in
                    England.
                
                Sometimes exceptions arise: here is one:—
                Two young women, well educated and refined, were left orphans, their father dying
                    just when his business promised to realise a handsome provision for his family.
                    It was essentially a man’s business—in many points of view, decidedly an
                    unpleasant one. Of course friends thought “the girls” must give it up, go out as
                    governesses, depend on relatives, or live in what genteel poverty the sale of
                    the good?will might allow. But the “girls” were wiser. They argued: “If we had
                    been boys, it would have been all right; we should have carried on the business,
                    and provided for our mother and the whole family. Being women, we’ll try it
                    still. It is nothing wrong; it is simply disagreeable. It needs common sense,
                    activity, diligence, and self?dependence. We have all these; and what we have
                    not, we will learn.” So these sensible and well?educated young women laid aside
                    their pretty uselessness and pleasant idleness, and set to work. Happily, the trade was one that required no personal
                    publicity; but they had to keep the books, manage the stock, choose and
                    superintend fit agents—to do things difficult, not to say distasteful, to most
                    women, and resign enjoyments that, to women of their refinement, must have cost
                    daily self?denial. Yet they did it; they filled their father’s place, sustained
                    their delicate mother in ease and luxury, never once compromising their
                    womanhood by their work, but rather ennobling the work by their doing of it.
                Another case—different, and yet alike. A young girl, an elder sister, had to
                    receive for step?mother a woman who ought never to have been any honest man’s
                    wife. Not waiting to be turned out of her father’s house, she did a most daring
                    and “improper” thing—she left it, taking with her the brothers and sisters, whom
                    by this means only she believed she could save from harm. She settled them in a
                    London lodging, and worked for them as a daily governess. “Heaven helps those who help themselves.” From that day this
                    girl never was dependent upon any human being; while during a long life she has
                    helped and protected more than I could count—pupils and pupils’ children,
                    friends and their children, besides brothers and sisters?in?law, nephews and
                    nieces, down to the slenderest tie of blood, or even mere strangers. And yet she
                    has never been anything but a poor governess, always independent, always able to
                    assist others—because she never was and never will be indebted to any one,
                    except for love while she lives, and for a grave when she dies. May she long
                    possess the one and want the other!
                And herein is answered the “cui bono?“
                    of self?dependence, that its advantages end not with the original possessor. In
                    this much?suffering world, a woman who can take care of herself can always take
                    care of other people. She not only ceases to be an unprotected female, a
                    nuisance and a drag upon society, but her working? value therein is doubled and trebled, and society
                    respects her accordingly. Even her kindly male friends, no longer afraid that
                    when the charm to their vanity of “being of use to a lady” has died out, they
                    shall be saddled with a perpetual claimant for all manner of advice and
                    assistance; the first not always followed, and the second often accepted without
                    gratitude—even they yield an involuntary consideration to a lady who gives them
                    no more trouble than she can avoid, and is always capable of thinking and acting
                    for herself, so far as the natural restrictions and decorums of her sex allow.
                    True, these have their limits, which it would be folly, if not worse, for her to
                    attempt to pass; but a certain fine instinct, which, we flatter ourselves, is
                    native to us women, will generally indicate the division between brave
                    self?reliance and bold assumption.
                Perhaps the line is most easily drawn, as in most difficulties, at that point
                    where duty ends and pleasure begins. Thus, we
                    should respect one who, on a mission of mercy or necessity, went through the
                    lowest portions of St. Giles’ or the Gallowgate; we should be rather disgusted
                    if she did it for mere amusement or bravado. All honour to the poor sempstress
                    or governess who traverses London streets alone, at all hours of day or night,
                    unguarded except by her own modesty; but the strong?minded female who would
                    venture on a solitary expedition to investigate the humours of Cremorne Gardens
                    or Greenwich Fair, though perfectly “respectable,” would be an exceedingly
                    condemnable sort of personage. There are many things at which, as mere
                    pleasures, a woman has a right to hesitate; there is no single duty, whether or
                    not it lies in the ordinary line of her sex, from which she ought to shrink, if
                    it be plainly set before her.
                Those who are the strongest advocates for the passive character of our sex, its
                    claims, proprieties, and restrictions, are, I have often noticed, if the most sensitive, not always the
                    justest or most generous. I have seen ladies, no longer either young or pretty,
                    shocked at the idea of traversing a street’s length at night, yet never hesitate
                    at being “fetched” by some female servant, who was both young and pretty, and to
                    whom the danger of the expedition, or of the late return alone, was by far the
                    greater of the two. I have known anxious mothers, who would not for worlds be
                    guilty of the indecorum of sending their daughters unchaperoned to the theatre
                    or a ball—and very right, too!—yet send out some other woman’s young daughter,
                    at eleven P.M., to the stand for a cab, or to the public?house for a supply of
                    beer. It never strikes them that the doctrine of female dependence extends
                    beyond themselves, whom it suits so easily, and to whom it saves so much
                    trouble; that either every woman, be she servant or mistress, sempstress or fine
                    lady, should receive the “protection” suitable to her degree; or that each ought to be educated into equal self?dependence.
                    Let us, at least, hold the balance of justice even, nor allow an
                    over?consideration for the delicacy of one woman to trench on the rights,
                    conveniences, and honest feelings of another.
                We must help ourselves. In this curious phase of social history,
                    when marriage is apparently ceasing to become the common lot, and a happy
                    marriage the most uncommon lot of all, we must educate our maidens into what is
                    far better than any blind clamor for ill?defined “rights ”—into what ought
                    always to be the foundation of rights—duties. And there is one, the silent
                    practice of which will secure to them almost every right they can fairly
                    need—the duty of self?dependence. Not after any Amazonian fashion; no mutilating
                    of fair womanhood in order to assume the unnatural armour of men; but simply by
                    the full exercise of every faculty, physical, moral, and intellectual, with
                    which Heaven has endowed us all, severally and col lectively, in different degrees; allowing no one to
                    rust or to lie idle, merely because their owner is a woman. And, above all, let
                    us lay the foundation of all real womanliness by teaching our gifts from their
                    cradle that the priceless pearl of decorous beauty, chastity of mind as well as
                    body, exists in themselves alone; that a single?hearted and pure?minded woman
                    may go through the world, like Spenser’s Una, suffering, indeed, but never
                    defenceless; foot?sore and smirched, but never tainted; exposed, doubtless, to
                    many trials, yet never either degraded or humiliated, unless by her own acts she
                    humiliates herself.
                For heaven’s sake—for the sake of “womanhede,” the most heavenly thing next
                    angelhood, (as men tell us when they are courting us, and which it depends upon
                    ourselves to make them believe in all their lives)—young girls, trust
                    yourselves; rely on yourselves! Be assured that no outward circumstances will
                    harm you while you keep the jewel of purity in your bosom, and are ever ready with the steadfast, clean right
                    hand, of which, till you use it, you never know the strength, though it be only
                    a woman’s hand.
                Fear not the world: it is often juster to us than we are to ourselves. If in its
                    harsh jostlings the “weaker goes to the wall”—as so many allege is sure to
                    happen to a woman—you will almost always find that this is not merely because of
                    her sex, but from some inherent qualities in herself, which, existing either in
                    woman or man, would produce just the same result, pitiful and blameable, but
                    usually more pitiful than blameable. The world is hard enough, for two?thirds of
                    it are struggling for the dear life—“each for self, and de’il tak the hindmost;”
                    but it has a rough sense of moral justice after all. And whosoever denies that,
                    spite of all hindrances from individual wickedness, the right shall
                    not ultimately prevail, impugns not alone human justice, but the justice of
                    God.
                
                The age of chivalry, with all its benefits and harmfulness, is gone by, for us
                    women. We cannot now have men for our knights?errant, expending blood and life
                    for our sake, while we have nothing to do but sit idle on balconies, and drop
                    flowers on half?dead victors at tilt and tourney. Nor, on the other hand, are we
                    dressed?up dolls, pretty playthings, to be fought and scrambled for—petted,
                    caressed, or flung out of window, as our several lords and masters may please.
                    Life is much more equally divided between us and them. We are neither goddesses
                    nor slaves; they are neither heroes nor semi?demons: we just plod on together,
                    men and women alike, on the same road, where daily experience illustrates
                    Hudibras’s keen truth, that 
                        “The value of a thing
                        Is just as much as it will bring.”
                     And our value is—exactly what we choose to make it.
                
                Perhaps at no age since Eve’s were women rated so exclusively at their own
                    personal worth, apart from poetic flattery or tyrannical depreciation; at no
                    time in the world’s history judged so entirely by their individual merits, and
                    respected according to the respect which they earned for themselves. And shall
                    we value ourselves so meanly as to consider this unjust? Shall we not rather
                    accept our position, difficult indeed, and requiring from us more than the world
                    ever required before, but from its very difficulty rendered the more
                    honourable?
                Let us not be afraid of men; for that, I suppose, lies at the root of all these
                    amiable hesitations. “Gentlemen don’t like such and such things.” “Gentlemen
                    fancy so and so unfeminine.” My dear little foolish cowards, do you think a
                    man—a good man, in any relation of life, ever loves a woman the
                    more for reverencing her the less? or likes her better for transferring all her burdens to his shoulders, and
                    pinning her conscience to his sleeve? Or, even supposing he did like it, is a
                    woman’s divinity to be man—or God?
                And here, piercing to the Foundation of all truth?I think we may find the truth
                    concerning self?dependence, which is only real and only valuable when its root
                    is not in self at all; when its strength is drawn not from man, but from that
                    Higher and Diviner Source whence every individual soul proceeds, and to which
                    alone it is accountable. As soon as any woman, old or young, once feels
                        that, not as a vague sentimental belief, but as a tangible,
                    practical law of life, all weakness ends, all doubt departs: she recognises the
                    glory, honour, and beauty of her existence; she is no longer afraid of its
                    pains; she desires not to shift one atom of its responsibilities to another. She
                    is content to take it just as it is, from the hands of the All?Father; her only
                    care being so to fulfil it, that while the world at large may recognise and profit by her self?dependence, she herself,
                    knowing that the utmost strength lies in the deepest humility, recognises,
                    solely and above all, her dependence upon God.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                Female Professions.
                GRANTED the necessity of something to do, and the self?dependence
                    required for its achievement, we may go on to the very obvious
                        question—what is a woman to do?
                A question more easily asked than answered; and the numerous replies to which,
                    now current in book, pamphlet, newspaper, and review, suggesting everything
                    possible and impossible, from compulsory wifehood in Australia to voluntary
                    watchmaking at home, do at present rather confuse the matter than otherwise. No
                    doubt, out of these “many words,” which “darken speech,” some plain word or two
                    will one day take shape in action, so as to
                    evolve a practical good. In the meantime, it does no harm to have the muddy pond
                    stirred up a little; any disturbance is better than stagnation.
                These Thoughts—however desultory and unsatisfactory, seeing the great need there
                    is for deeds rather than words—are those of a “working” woman, who has been such
                    all her life, having opportunities of comparing the experience of other working
                    women with her own: she, therefore, at least escapes the folly of talking of
                    what she knows nothing about.
                Female professions, as distinct from what may be termed female handicrafts, which
                    merit separate classification and discussion, may, I think, be thus divided: the
                    instruction of youth; painting or art; literature; and the vocation of public
                    entertainment—including actresses, singers, musicians, and the like.
                The first of these, being a calling universally wanted, and the easiest in which
                    to win, at all events, daily bread, is the
                    great chasm into which the helpless and penniless of our sex generally plunge;
                    and this indiscriminate Quintus Curtiusism, so far from filling up the gulf,
                    widens it every hour. It must be so, while young women of all classes and all
                    degrees of capability rush into governessing, as many young men enter the
                    church,—because they think it a “respectable” profession to get on in, and are
                    fit for nothing else. Thus the most important of ours, and the highest of all
                    men’s vocations, are both degraded—in so far as they can be degraded—by the
                    unworthiness and incompetency of their professors.
                If, in the most solemn sense, not one woman in five thousand is fit to be a
                    mother, we may safely say that not two out of that number are fit to be
                    governesses. Consider all that the office implies: very many of a mother’s
                    duties, with the addition of considerable mental attainments, firmness of
                    character, good sense, good temper, good
                    breeding; patience, gentleness, loving?kindness. In short, every quality that
                    goes to make a perfect woman, is required of her who presumes to undertake the
                    education of one single little child.
                Does any one pause to reflect what a “little child” is? Not sentimentally, as a
                    creature to be philosophised upon, painted and poetised; nor selfishly, as a
                    kissable, scoldable, sugar?plum?feedable plaything; but as a human soul and
                    body, to be moulded, instructed, and influenced, in order that it in its turn
                    may mould, instruct, and influence unborn generations. And yet, in face of this
                    awful responsibility, wherein each deed and word of hers may bear fruit, good or
                    ill, to indefinite ages, does nearly every educated gentlewoman thrown upon her
                    own resources, nearly every half?educated “young person” who wishes by that
                    means to step out of her own sphere into the one above it, enter upon the
                    vocation of a governess.
                
                Whether it really is her vocation, she never stops to think; and yet, perhaps, in
                    no calling is a personal bias more indispensable. For knowledge, and the power
                    of imparting it intelligibly, are two distinct and often opposite qualities; the
                    best student by no means necessarily makes the best teacher: nay, when both
                    faculties are combined, they are sometimes neutralised by some fault of
                    disposition, such as want of temper or of will. And allowing all these, granting
                    every possible intellectual and practical competency, there remains still
                    doubtful the moral influence, which, according to the source from which it
                    springs, may ennoble or corrupt a child for life.
                All these are facts so trite and so patent, that one would almost feel it
                    superfluous to state them, did we not see how utterly they are ignored day by
                    day by even sensible people; how parents go on lavishing expense on their house,
                    dress, and entertainments—everything but the edu? cation of their children; sending their boys to cheap boarding?schools, and
                    engaging for their daughters governesses at 20
                        l.
                        pound
                     a year, or daily tuition at sixpence an hour; and how, as a natural
                    result, thousands of incapable girls, and ill?informed, unscrupulous women, go
                    on professing to teach everything under the sun, adding lie upon lie, and
                    meanness upon meanness—often through no voluntary wickedness, but sheer
                    helplessness, because they must either do that or starve!
                Yet, all the while we expect our rising generation to turn out perfection;
                    instead of which we find it—what?
                I do solemnly aver, having seen more than one generation of young girls grow up
                    into womanhood—that the fairest and best specimens of our sex that I have ever
                    known have been among those who have never gone to school, or scarcely ever had
                    a regular governess.
                Surely such a fact as this—I put it to general
                    experience, whether it is not a fact?—indicates some great flaw in the carrying
                    out of this large branch of women’s work. How is it to be remedied? I believe,
                    like all reformations, it must begin at the root—with the governesses
                    themselves.
                Unless a woman has a decided pleasure and facility in teaching, an honest
                    knowledge of everything she professes to impart, a liking for children, and
                    above all, a strong moral sense of her responsibility towards them, for her to
                    attempt to enrol herself in the scholastic order is absolute profanation. Better
                    turn shopwoman, needlewoman, lady’s?maid—even become a decent housemaid, and
                    learn how to sweep the floor, than belie her own soul, and peril many other
                    souls, by entering upon what is, or ought to be, a female “ministry,”
                    unconsecrated for, and incapable of the work.
                “But,” say they, “work we must have. Competition is so great, that if we did
                        not profess to do everything, it would be
                    supposed we could do nothing: and so we should starve.”
                Yet, what is competition? A number of people attempting to do what most of them
                    can only half do, and some cannot do at all—thereby “cutting one another’s
                    throats,” as the saying is, so long as their incapacity is concealed; when it is
                    found out, starving. There may be exceptions from exceeding misfortune and the
                    like—but in the long run, I believe it will be found that few women, really
                    competent to what they undertake, be it small or great, starve for want of work
                    to do. So, in this case, no influence is so deeply felt in a house, or so
                    anxiously retained, if only from self?interest, as the influence of a good
                    governess over the children; among the innumerable throng of teachers, there is
                    nothing more difficult to find—or more valuable when found, to judge by the high
                    terms asked and obtained by many professors—than a lady who can teach only a single thing, solidly,
                    conscientiously, and well.
                In this, as in most social questions, where to theorise is easy and to practise
                    very difficult, it will often be found that the silent undermining of an evil is
                    safer than the loud outcry against it. If every governess, so far as her power
                    extends, would strive to elevate the character of her profession by elevating
                    its members, many of the unquestionable wrongs and miseries of governess?ship
                    would gradually right themselves. A higher standard of capability would weed out
                    much cumbersome mediocrity; and, competition lessened, the value of labour would
                    rise. I say “the value of labour,” because, when we women do work, we must learn
                    to rate ourselves at no ideal and picturesque value, but simply as
                        labourers—fair and honest competitors in the field of the
                    world; and our wares as mere merchandise, where money’s worth alone brings
                    money, or has any right to expect it.
                
                This applies equally to the two next professions, art and literature. I put art
                    first, as being the most difficult—perhaps, in its highest form, almost
                    impossible to women. There are many reasons for this; in the course of education
                    necessary for a painter, in the not unnatural repugnance that is felt to women’s
                    drawing from “the life,” attending anatomical dissections, and so on—all which
                    studies are indispensable to one who would plumb the depths and scale the
                    heights of the most arduous of the liberal arts. Whether any woman will ever do
                    this, remains yet to be proved. Meantime, many lower and yet honourable
                    positions are open to female handlers of the brush.
                But in literature we own no such boundaries; there we meet men on level
                    ground—and, shall I say it?—we do often beat them in their own field. We are
                    acute and accurate historians, clear explanators of science, especially
                    successful in imaginative works, and within the last year
                    Aurora Leigh, has proved that we can write as great a poem as any
                    man among them all. Any publisher’s list, any handful of weekly or monthly
                    periodicals, can testify to our power of entering boldly on the literary
                    profession, and pursuing it wholly, self?devotedly, and self?reliantly, thwarted
                    by no hardships, and content with no height short of the highest.
                So much for the best of us—women work will float down the ages, safe and sure;
                    there is no need to speak of it or them. But there is another secondary class
                    among us, neither “geniuses” nor ordinary women—aspiring to both destinies, and
                    usually achieving neither: of these it is necessary to say a word.
                In any profession, there is nothing, short of being absolutely evil, which is so
                    injurious, so fatal, as mediocrity. To the amateur who writes “sweetly” or
                    paints “prettily,” her work is mere recreation; and though it may be less improving for the mind to do small things on
                    your own account, than to be satisfied with appreciating the greater doings of
                    other people, still, it is harmless enough, if it stops there. But all who leave
                    domestic criticism to plunge into the open arena of art—I use the word in its
                    widest sense—must abide by art’s severest canons. One of these is, that every
                    person who paints a common?place picture, or writes a mediocre book, contributes
                    temporarily—happily, only temporarily—to lower the standard of public taste,
                    fills unworthily some better competitor’s place, and without achieving any
                    private good, does a positive wrong to the community at large.
                One is often tempted to believe, in the great influx of small talents which now
                    deluges us, that if half the books written, and pictures painted, were made into
                    one great bonfire, it would be their shortest, easiest, and safest way of
                    illuminating the world.
                
                Therefore, let men do as they will—and truly they are often ten times vainer and
                    more ambitious than we!—but I would advise every woman to examine herself and
                    judge herself, morally and intellectually, by the sharpest tests of criticism,
                    before she attempts art or literature, either for abstract fame or as a means of
                    livelihood. Let her take to heart, humbly, the telling truth, that 
                        “Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,”
                     and be satisfied that the smallest perfect achievement is nobler than the
                    grandest failure. But having, after mature deliberation, chosen her calling, and
                    conscientiously believing it is her calling—that in which she shall do most
                    good, and best carry out the aim of her existence—let her fulfill to the last
                    iota its solemn requirements.
                These entail more, much more, than flighty young genius or easily?satisfied
                    mediocrity ever dreams of; labour incessant,
                    courage inexhaustible, sustained under difficulties, misfortunes, and rebuffs of
                    every conceivable kind—added thereto, not unfrequently, the temperament to which
                    these things come hardest. Le génie c’est la
                        patience; and though there is a truth beyond it—since all the
                    patience in the world will not serve as a substitute for genius,—still, never
                    was a truer saying than this of old Buffon’s. Especially as applied to women,
                    when engaged in a profession which demands of them, no less than from men, the
                    fervent application, and sometimes the total devotion of a lifetime.
                For, high as the calling is, it is not always, in the human sense, a happy on; it
                    often results in, if it does not spring from, great sacrifices; and is full of a
                    thousand misconstructions, annoyances, and temptations. Nay, since ambition is a
                    quality far oftener deficient in us than in the other sex, its very successes
                    are less sweet to women than to men. Many a “celebrated authoress” or “exquisite paintress” must have felt
                    the heart?truth in Aurora Leigh: 
                        “I might have been a common women, now,
                        And happier, less known and less left alone,
                        Perhaps a better woman after all—
                        With chubby children hanging around my neck,
                        To keep me low and wise. Ah me! the vines
                        That bear such fruit are proud to stoop with it—
                        The palm stands upright in a realm of sand.”
                     And, setting aside both these opposite poles of the female character and
                    lot, it remains yet doubtful whether the maiden?aunt who goes from house to
                    house, perpetually busy and useful—the maiden house?mother, who keeps together
                    an orphan family, having all the cares, and only half the joys of maternity or
                    mistress?ship—even the active, bustling “old maid,” determined on setting
                    everybody to rights, and having a finger in every pie that needs her, and a few
                    that don’t—I question whether each of these women has not a more natural, and
                    therefore, probably, a happier existence, than any “woman of genius” that ever enlightened the
                    world.
                But happiness is not the first not the only thing on earth. Whosoever has entered
                    upon this vocation in the right spirit, let her keep to it, neither afraid not
                    ashamed. The days of blue?stockings are over: it is a notable fact, that the
                    best housekeepers, the neatest needlewomen, the most discreet managers of their
                    own and others’ affairs, are ladies whose names the world cons over in library
                    lists and exhibition catalogues. I could give them now—except that the world has
                    no possible business with them, except to read their books and look at their
                    pictures. It must imply something deficient in the women themselves, if the rude
                    curiosity of this said well?meaning but often impertinent public is ever allowed
                    to break in upon that dearest right of every woman—the inviolable sanctity of
                    her home.
                Without—in those books and by these pictures
                    —let it always be a fair fight, and no quarter. To exact consideration merely on
                    account of her sex, is in any woman the poorest cowardice. She has entered the
                    neutral realm of pure intellect—has donned brain?armour, and must carry on with
                    lawful, consecrated weapons a combat, of which the least reward in her eyes, in
                    which she never can freeze up or burn out either the woman?tears or
                    woman?smiles, will be that public acknowledgment called Fame.
                This fame, as gained in art or literature, is certainly of a purer and safer kind
                    than that which falls to the lot of the female artiste.
                Most people will grant that no great gift is given to be hid under a bushel; that
                    a Sarah Siddons, a Rachel, or a Jenny Lind, being created, was certainly not
                    created for nothing. There seems no reason why a great actress or vocalist
                    should not exercise her talents to the utmost for the world’s benefit, and her
                    own; nor that any genius, boiling and bursting up to find ex? pression, should be pent down, cruelly and
                    dangerously, because it refuses to run in the ordinary channel of feminine
                    development. But the last profession of the four which I have enumerated as the
                    only paths at present open to women, is the one which is the most full of perils
                    and difficulties, on account of the personality involved in its exercise.
                We may paint scores of pictures, write shelvesful of books—the errant children of
                    our brain may be familiar half over the known world, and yet we ourselves sit as
                    quiet by our chimney?corner, live a life as simple and peaceful as any happy
                    “common woman” of them all. But with the artiste it is very different; she needs to be constantly before
                    the public, not only mentally, but physically: the general eye becomes familiar,
                    not merely with her genius, but her corporeality; and every comment of
                    admiration or blame awarded to her, is necessarily an immediate personal
                    criticism. This of itself is a position
                    contrary to the instinctive something—call it reticence, modesty, shyness, what
                    you will—which is inherent in every one of Eve’s daughters. Any young girl,
                    standing before a large party in her first tableau vivant—any singing?pupil at a public examination—any
                    boy?lover of some adorable actress, at the moment when he first thinks of that
                    goddess as his wife, will understand what I mean.
                But that is by no means the chief objection; for the feeling of personal shyness
                    dies out, and in the true artiste
                    becomes altogether merged in the love and inspiration of her art—the
                    inexplicable fascination of which turns the many?eyed gazing mass into a mere
                    “public,” of whose individuality the performer is no more conscious that was the
                    Pythoness of her curled and scented Greek audience, when she felt on her tripod
                    the afflatus of the unconquerable, inevitable god. The saddest phase of
                    artiste?life—which is, doubtless, the natural result of this constant appearance before the public eye, this incessant
                    struggle for the public’s personal verdict—is its intense involuntary
                    egotism.
                No one can have seen anything of theatrical or musical circles without noticing
                    this—the incessant recurrence to “my part,” “my song,”
                    “what the public think of me.” In the hand?to?hand struggle for the
                    capricious public’s favour, this sad selfishness is apparently inevitable. “Each
                    for himself” seems implanted in masculine nature, for its own preservation; but
                    when it comes to “each for herself”—when you see the fairest
                    Shakespeare turn red or pale at the mention of a rival impersonator—when Miss
                    This cannot be asked to a party for fear of meeting Madame That, or if they do
                    meet, through all their smiling civility you perceive their backs are up, like
                    two strange cats meeting at a parlour?door—I say, this is the most lamentable of
                    all results, not absolutely vicious, which the world, and the necessity of
                    working in it, effect on women.
                
                And for this reason the profession of public entertainment, in all its
                    graduation, from the inspired tragédienne to the poor chorus?singer, is, above any profession I
                    know, to be marked with a spiritual Humane Society’s pole,
                        “Dangerous.” Not after the vulgar notion: we have among us too
                    many chaste, matronly actresses, and charming maiden?vocalists, to enter now in
                    the old question about the “respectability” of the stage; but on account of the
                    great danger to temperament, character, and mode of thought, to which such a
                    life peculiarly exposes its followers.
                But if a woman has chosen it—I repeat in this as in any other—let her not forego
                    it; for in every occupation the worthiness, like the “readiness,” “is all.”
                    Never let her be moulded by her calling, but mould her calling to herself;
                    being, as every woman ought to be, the woman first, the artiste afterwards. And, doubtless, so are many;
                    doubtless one could find, not only among the
                    higher ranks of this profession, where genius itself acts as a purifying and
                    refining fire, but in its lower degrees, many who, under the glare of the
                    footlights and the din of popular applause, have kept their freshness and
                    singleness of character unfaded to the end. Ay, even among poor ballet?dancers,
                    capering with set rouged smiles and laden hearts—coarse screaming
                    concert?singers, doing sham pathos at a guinea a?night—flaunting
                    actresses?of?all?work, firmly believing themselves the best Juliet
                    or Lady Macbeth extant, and yet condescending to take ever so small
                    a part—even the big?headed “princess” of an Easter extravaganza,
                    for the sake of old parents, or the fiddler?husband and the sickly babies at
                    home. No doubt, many of them live—let us rather say, endure—a life as pure, as
                    patient, as self?denying, as that of hundreds of timid, daintily protected
                    girls, and would?be correct matrons, who shrink in safe privacy from the very thought of these. But Heaven counts and cares
                    for all.
                Therefore, in this perilous road, double honour be unto those who walk upright,
                    double pity unto those who fall!
                Conning over again this desultory chapter, it seems to me it all comes to neither
                    more nor less than this: that since a woman, by choosing a definite profession,
                    must necessarily quit the kindly shelter and safe negativeness of a private
                    life, and assume a substantive position, it is her duty not hastily to decide,
                    and before deciding, in every way to count the cost. But having chosen, let her
                    fulfil her lot. Let there be no hesitations, no regrets, no compromises—they are
                    at once cowardly and vain. She may have missed or foregone much;—I repeat, our
                    natural and happiest life is when we lose ourselves in the exquisite absorption
                    of home, the delicious retirement of dependent love; but what she has, she has,
                    and nothing can ever take it from her. Nor is
                    it, after all, a small thing for any woman—be she governess, painter, author, or
                        artiste—to feel that, higher or
                    lower, according to her degree, she ranks among that crowned band who, whether
                    or not they are the happy ones, are elected to the heaven?given honour of being
                    the Workers of the world.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                Female Handicrafts.
                WHILE planning this chapter I chanced to read, in a late number of the
                    North British Quarterly, a paper headed “Employment of
                    Women,” which expressed many of my ideas in forms so much
                        
                        ;
                     clearer and better than any into which I can cast them, that I long
                    hesitated whether it were worth while attempting to set them down here at all;
                    but afterwards, seeing that these Thoughts aim less at originality than
                    usefulness—nay, that since they are but the repetition in one woman’s written
                    words of what must already have occurred to the minds of hundreds of other
                    women,—if they were startlingly original, they would probably cease to be useful,—I determined to say my say. It matters
                    little when, or how, or by how many, truth is spoken, if only it be truth.
                Taking up the question of female handicrafts, in contradistinction to female
                    professions, the first thing that strikes one is the largeness of the subject,
                    and how very little one practically knows about it. Of necessity, it has not
                    much to say for itself; it lives by its fingers rather than its brains; it
                    cannot put its life into print. Sometimes a poet does this for it, and thrills
                    millions with a Song of the Shirt; or a novelist presents us with
                    some imaginary portrait—some Lettice Arnold, Susan
                        Hopley, or Ruth, idealised more or less, it may be, yet
                    sufficiently true to nature to give us a passing interest in our shop?girls,
                    sempstresses, and maid?servants, abstractedly, as a class. But of the
                    individuals, of their modes of existence, feeling, and thought—of their sorrows
                    and pleasures, accomplishments and defects—we “ladies” of the middle and upper
                    ranks, especially those who reside in great
                    towns, know essentially nothing.
                The whole working class is a silent class; and this division of it being a degree
                    above the cottage visitations of the ladies Bountiful, or the legislation of
                    Ten?Hours’?Bill Committees in an enlightened British Parliament, is the most
                    silent of all. Yet it includes so many grades—from the West?end milliner, who
                    dresses in silk every day, and is almost (often quite) a “lady,” down to the
                    wretched lodging?house “slavey,” who seems to be less a woman than a mere
                    working animal—that, viewing it, one shrinks back in awe of its vastness. What
                    an enormous influence it must unconsciously exercise on society, this dumb
                    multitude, which, behind counters, in work?rooms, garrets, and bazaars, or in
                    service at fashionable, respectable, or barely decent houses, goes toiling,
                    toiling on, from morning till night—often from night till morning—at anything
                    and everything, just for daily bread and honesty!
                
                Now, Society recognises this fact—gets up early?closing movements, makes eloquent
                    speeches in lawn sleeves or peers’ broadcloth at Hanover Square Rooms, or writes
                    a letter to the Times, enlarging on the virtue of ordering
                    court?dresses in time, so that one portion of Queen Victoria’s female subjects
                    may not be hurried into disease or death, or worse, in order that another
                    portion may shine out brilliant and beautiful at Her Majesty’s balls and
                    drawing?rooms. All this is good; but it is only a drop in the bucket—a little
                    oil cast on the top of the stream. The great tide of struggle and suffering
                    flows on just the same; the surface may be slightly troubled, but the
                    undercurrent seems to be in a state which it is impossible to change.
                Did I say “impossible?” No; I do not believe there is anything under heaven to
                    which we have a right to apply that word.
                Apparently, one of the chief elements of wrong in the class which I have
                        distinguished as handicraftswomen, is the
                    great and invidious distinction drawn between it and that of professional women.
                    Many may repudiate this in theory; yet, practically, I ask lady?mothers whether
                    they would not rather take for daughter?in?law the poorest governess, the most
                    penniless dependent, than a “person in business”—milliner, dress?maker,
                    shop?woman, &c.? As for a domestic servant—a cook, or even a
                    lady’s?maid—I am afraid a young man’s choice of such an one for his wife, would
                    ruin him for ever in the eyes of Society.
                Society—begging her pardon!—is often a great fool. Why should it be less
                    creditable to make good dresses than bad books? In what is it better to be at
                    night a singing servant to an applauding or capriciously contemptuous public,
                    than to wait on the said public in the day?time from behind the counter of shop
                    or bazaar? I confess, I cannot see the mighty difference; when the question, as
                    must be distinctly under? stood, concerns not
                    personal merit or endowments, but external calling.
                And here comes in the old warfare, which began worthily enough, in the respect
                    due to mind over matter, head?work over hand?work, but has deteriorated by
                    custom into a ridiculous and contemptible tyranny—the battle between professions
                    and trades. I shall not enter into it here. Happily, men are now slowly waking
                    up—women more slowly still—to a perception of the truth, that honour is an
                    intrinsic and not extrinsic possession; that one means of livelihood is not of
                    itself one whit more “respectable” than another; that credit or discredit can
                    attach in no degree to the work done, but to the manner of doing it, and to the
                    individual who does it.
                But, on the other hand, any class that, as a class, lacks honour, has usually,
                    some time or other, fallen short in desert of it. Thus, among handicraftswomen,
                    who bear to professional women the same relation as tradesmen to gentlemen, one often finds great self?assertion and
                    equivalent want of self?respect, painful servility or pitiable impertinence—in
                    short, many of those faults which arise in a transition state of partial
                    education, and accidental semi?refinement. Also, since a certain amount of both
                    refinement and education is necessary to create a standard of moral
                    conscientiousness, this order of women is much more deficient than the one above
                    it in that stern, steady up?rightness which constitutes what we call elevation
                    of character. Through the want of pride in their calling, and laxity or
                    slovenliness of principle in pursuing it, they are at war with the class above
                    them; which justly complains of those unconquerable faults and deficiencies that
                    make patience the only virtue it can practise towards its inferiors.
                How amend this lamentable state of things? How lessen the infinite wrongs,
                    errors, and sufferings of this mass of womanhood, out of which are glutted our
                    churchyards, hospitals, prisons,
                    penitentiaries; from which, more than from any other section of society, is
                    taken that pest and anguish of our streets, the 
                        “Eighty thousand women in one smile,
                        Who only smile at night beneath the gas.”
                     Many writers of both sexes are now striving to answer this question; and
                    many others, working more by their lives than their pens, are practically trying
                    to solve the problem. All honour and success attend both workers and writers!
                    Each in their vocation will spur on society to bestir itself, and, by the
                    combination of popular feeling, to achieve in some large from a solid social
                    good.
                But in these Thoughts I would fain address individuals. I want to speak, not to
                    society at large, for as we well know, “everybody’s business” is often “nobody’s
                    business,” but to each woman separately, appealing to her in her personal
                    character as employer or employed.
                And, first, as employer.
                
                I am afraid it is from some natural deficiency in the constitution of our sex
                    that it is so difficult to teach us justice. It certainly was a mistake to make
                    that admirable virtue a female; and even then the allegorist seems to have found
                    it necessary to bandage her eyes. No; kindliness, unselfishness, charity, come
                    to us by nature: but I wish I could see more of my sisters learning and
                    practising what is far more difficult and far less attractive—common justice,
                    especially towards one another.
                In dealing with men, there is little fear but that they will take care of
                    themselves. That “first law of nature,” self?preservation, is—doubtless, for
                    wise purposes—imprinted pretty strongly on the mind of the male sex. It is in
                    transactions between women and women that the difficulty lies. Therein—I put the
                    question to the aggregate conscience of us all—is it not, openly or secretly,
                    our chief aim to get the largest possible amount of labour for the smallest
                    possible price?
                
                We do not mean any harm; we are only acting for the best—for our own benefit, and
                    that of those nearest to us; and yet we are committing an act of injustice, the
                    result of which fills slopsellers’s doors with starving sempstresses, and causes
                    unlimited competition among incompetent milliners and dressmakers, while skilled
                    labour in all these branches is lamentably scarce and extravagantly dear. Of
                    course! so long as one continually hears ladies say: “Oh, I got such and such a
                    thing almost for half?price—such a bargain!” or: “Do you know I have found out
                    such a cheap dressmaker!” May I suggest to these the common?sense law of
                    political economy, that neither labour nor material can possible be got
                    “cheaply”—that is, below its average acknowledged cost, without
                        somebody’s being cheated? Consequently, these devotees to
                    cheapness, when not victims—which they frequently are in the long run—are very
                    little better than genteel swindlers.
                
                There is another lesser consideration, and yet not small either. Labour, unfairly
                    remunerated, of necessity deteriorates in quality, and thereby lowers the
                    standard of appreciation. Every time I pay a low price for an ill?fitting gown
                    or an ugly tawdry bonnet—cheapness is usually tawdry—I am wronging not merely
                    myself, but my employée, by
                    encouraging careless work and bad taste, and by thus going in direct opposition
                    to a rule from whence springs so much that is eclectic and beautiful in the
                    female character, that “whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well.” If,
                    on the contrary, I knowingly pay below its value for really good work, I am, as
                    aforesaid, neither more nor less than a dishonest appropriator of other people’s
                    property—a swindler—a thief.
                Humiliating as the confession may be, it must be owned that, on the whole, men
                    are less prone to this petty vice that we are. You rarely find a gentleman
                    beating down his tailor, cheapening his hosier,
                    or haggling with his groom over a few shillings of wages. Either his wider
                    experience has enlarged his mind, or he has less time for bargaining, or he will
                    not take the trouble. It is among us, alas! that you see most
                    instances of “stinginess”—not the noble economy which can and does lessen its
                    personal wants to the narrowest rational limit, but the mean parsimony which
                    tries to satisfy them below cost?price, and consequently always at somebody
                    else’s expense rather than its own. Against this crying sin—none the less a sin
                    because often masked as a virtue, and even corrupted from an original virtue—it
                    becomes our bounden duty, as women, to protest with all our power. More
                    especially, because it is a temptation peculiar to ourselves; engendered by many
                    a cruel domestic narrowness, many a grinding struggle to “make ends meet,” of
                    which the sharpness always falls to the woman’s lot, to a degree that men, in
                    their grand picturesque pride and reckless indifference to expense, can rarely either feel or appreciate.
                I do not here advance the argument, usually enforced by experience, that
                    cheapness always comes dearest in the end, and that only a wealthy person can
                    afford to make “bargains;” because I wish to open the question—and leave it—on
                    the far higher ground of moral justice. The celebrated sentiment of Benjamin
                    Franklin, “Honesty is the best policy,” appears rather a mean and unchristian
                    mode of inculcating the said virtue.
                Another injustice, less patent, but equally harmful, is constantly committed by
                    ladies—namely, the conducting of business relations in an unbusiness?like
                    manner. Carelessness, irregularity, or delay in giving orders; needless
                    absorption of time, which is money; and, above all, want of explicitness and
                    decision, are faults which no one dare complain of in a customer, but yet which
                    result in the more cruel wrong. Perhaps the
                    first quality in an employer is to know her own mind; the second, to be able to
                    state it clearly, so as to avoid the possibility of mistake; and no error caused
                    by a blunder or irresolution on her part should ever be visited upon the person
                    employed.
                There is one injustice which I hardly need refer to, so nearly does it approach
                    to actual dishonesty. Any lady who wilfully postpones payment beyond a
                    reasonable time, or in any careless way prefers her convenience to her duty, her
                    pleasure to her sense of right—who for one single day keeps one single person
                    waiting for a debt which at all lies within her power to discharge—is a creature
                    so far below the level of true womanhood that I would rather not speak of
                    her.
                And now, as to the class of the employed. It resolves itself into so many
                    branches that I shall attempt only to generalise, nor refer to distinctive
                    occupations, which are dividing, subdividing, and extending from year to year.
                    The world is slowly discovering that women are
                    capable of far more crafts than was supposed, if only they are properly educated
                    for them: that, here and abroad, they are good accountants, shopkeepers,
                    drapers’ assistants, telegraph clerks, watch?makers: and doubtless would be
                    better, if the ordinary training which almost every young man has a chance of
                    getting, and which in any case he is supposed to have, were thought equally
                    indispensable to young women. And well, indeed, if it were so: for there is no
                    possible condition of life where business habits are not of the greatest value
                    to any woman.
                I have heard the outcry raised, that this educating of one sex to do the work and
                    press into the place of the other lessens the value of labour, and so
                    depreciates the chances of matrimony, to the manifest injury of both. Charming
                    theory! which pays us the double?edged compliment of being so evidently afraid
                    of our competitive powers, and so complacently satisfied, that the sole purpose and use of our existence is to be
                    married!
                But Nature, wiser than such theorists, contradicts them without any argument of
                    ours. She has sufficiently limited our physique to prevent our being very fatal
                    rivals in manual labour; she has given us instincts that will rarely make us
                    prefer masculine occupations to sweeping the hearth and rocking the cradle—when
                    such duties are possible. And if it were not so, would the case be any better?
                    There is a certain amount of work to be done, and somebody must do it: a certain
                    community to be fed, and it must be fed somehow. Would it benefit the male
                    portion thereof to have all the burden on their own shoulders? Would it raise
                    the value of their labour to depreciate ours? or advantage them to keep us,
                    forcibly, in idleness, ignorance, and incapacity? I trow not. Rather let each
                    sex have a fair chance: let women, and single women above all, be taught to do
                    all they can, and do it as well as they can.
                    Little fear that there will not remain a sufficiently wide field open to
                    competent men, and only men, in every handicraft: little fear that the natural
                        métier of most women will not
                    always be the cherished labours of the fireside.
                One trade in all its branches, domestic or otherwise, is likely to remain
                    principally our own—the use of the needle.
                Who amongst us has not a great reverence for that little dainty tool; such a
                    wonderful brightener and consoler; our weapon of defence against slothfulness,
                    weariness, and sad thoughts; our thrifty helper in poverty, our pleasant friend
                    at all times? From the first “cobbled?up” doll’s frock—the first neat stitching
                    for mother, or hemming of father’s pocket?handkerchief—the first bit of sewing
                    shyly done for some one who is to own the hand and all its duties—most of all,
                    the first strange, delicious fairy work, sewed at diligently, in solemn faith
                    and tender love, for the tiny creature as yet
                    unknown and unseen—truly, no one but ourselves can tell what the needle is to us
                    women.
                With all due respect for brains, I think women cannot be too early taught to
                    respect likewise their own ten fingers.
                It is a grand thing to be a good needlewoman, even in what is called in England
                    “plain sewing,” and in Scotland, a “white seam;” and any one who ever tried to
                    make a dress knows well enough that skill, patience, and ingenuity, nay, a
                    certain kind of genius, is necessary to achieve any good result. Of all
                    artificers, the poor dressmaker is the last who ought to be grudged good
                    payment. Instead of depreciating, we should rather try to inspire her with a
                    sincere following of her art as an art—even a pleasant pride in it. “The
                        labour we delight in physics pain;” and it may be doubted whether any
                    branch of labour can be worthily pursued unless the labourer take an interest in it beyond the mere hire. I know a
                    dressmaker who evidently feels personally aggrieved when you decline to yield to
                    her taste in costume; who never spares pains or patience to adorn her customers
                    to the very best of her skill; and who, by her serious and simple belief in her
                    own business, would half persuade you that the destinies of the whole civilised
                    world hung on the noble but neglected art of mantua?making. One cannot but
                    respect that woman!
                Much has been said concerning justice from the employed, and as much might be
                    said in behalf of the opposite side. For a person to undertake more work than
                    she can finish, to break her promises, tell white lies, be wasteful, unpunctual,
                    is to be scarcely less dishonest to her employer than if she directly robbed
                    her. The want of conscientiousness, which is only too general among the lower
                    order of shopkeepers and people in business, does more to brand upon trade the
                    old stigma which the present generation is
                    wisely endeavoring to efface, and to blacken and broaden the line, now fast
                    vanishing, between tradesfolk and gentlefolk—more, tenfold, than all the
                    narrow?minded pride of the most prejudiced aristocracy.
                I should like to see working women—handicraftswomen—take up their
                    pride, and wield it with sense and courage; I should like to see them educating
                    themselves, for education is the grand motive power in the advancement of all
                    classes. I do not allude to mere book?learning, but that combination of mental,
                    moral, and manual attainments, the mere desire for and appreciation of which
                    give a higher tone to the whole being. And there are few conditions of life,
                    whether it be passed at the counter or over the needle, in the work?room or at
                    the home, where an intelligent young woman has not some opportunity of gaining
                    information; little enough it may be—from a book snatched up at rare intervals,
                    a print?shop window glanced at, as she passes along the street —a silent observation and imitation of whatever seems
                    most pleasant and refined in those of their superiors with whom she may be
                    thrown into contact. However small her progress may be, yet if she have a
                    genuine wish for mental improvement, the true thirst after what is good and
                    beautiful—the good being always the beautiful—for its own sake, there is little
                    fear but that she will gradually attain her end.
                There is one class which, from its daily and hourly familiarity with that above
                    it, has perhaps more opportunities than any for this gradual self?cultivation—I
                    mean the class of domestic servants; but these, though belonging to the ranks of
                    women who live by hand?labour, form a body in so many points distinct, that they
                    must form the subject of a separate chapter.
                Cannot some one suggest a slight amendment on the usual cry of elevating the
                    working classes—whether it be not possible to arouse in them the desire to
                    elevate themselves? Every growth of nature
                    begins less in the external force applied than the vital principle asserting
                    itself within. It is the undercurrent that helps to break up the ice; the sap,
                    as well as the sunshine, that brings out the green leaves of spring. I doubt if
                    any class can be successfully elevated unless it has indicated the power to
                    raise itself; and the first thing to make it worthy of respect is, to teach it
                    to respect itself.
                “In all labour there is profit”—ay, and honour too, if the toilers could but
                    recognise it; if the large talk now current about the “dignity of labour” could
                    only be reduced to practice; if, to begin at the beginning, we could but each
                    persuade the handful of young persons immediately around us and under our
                    influence, that to make an elegant dress or pretty bonnet— nay, even to cook a
                    good dinner, or take pride in a neatly kept house, is a right creditable,
                    womanly thing in itself, quite distinct from the profit accruing from it. Also,
                    since hope is the mainspring of excellence, as
                    well as of happiness, in any calling, let it be impressed on every one that her
                    future advancement lies, spiritually as well as literally, in her own hands.
                Seldom, with the commonest chance to start with, will a real good worker fail to
                    find employment; seldomer still, with diligence, industry, civility, and
                    punctuality, will a person of even moderate skill lack customers. Worth of any
                    kind is rare enough in the world for most people to be thankful to get it—and
                    keep it, too. In these days, the chief difficulty seems to consist, not in the
                    acknowledgment of merit, but the finding of any merit that is worth
                    acknowledging—above all, any merit that has the sense and consistency to
                    acknowledge and have faith in itself, and to trust in its own power of upholding
                    itself afloat in the very stormiest billows of the tempestuous world; assured
                    with worthy old Milton, that 
                        “If virtue feeble were
                        Heaven itself would stoop to her.”
                    
                
                But I am pulled down from this Utopia of female handicrafts by the distant
                    half?smothered laughter of my two maid?servants, going cheerily to their bed
                    through the silent house; and by the recollection that I myself must be up
                    early, as my new sempstress is coming to?morrow. Well, she shall be kindly
                    treated, have plenty of food and drink, light and fire; and though I shall be
                    stern and remorseless as fate respecting the quality of her work, I shall give
                    her plenty of time to do it in. No more will be expected from her than her
                    capabilities seem to allow and her word promised; still, there will be no bating
                    an inch of that: it would be unfair both to herself and me. In fact, the very
                    reason I took her was from her honest look and downright sayings:—“Ma’am, if you
                    can’t wait, or know anybody better, don’t employ me; but, ma’am, when I say I’ll
                    come, I always do.”—(P.S. She didn’t!!)
                Honest woman! If she turns out fairly, so much
                    the better for us both, in the future, as to gowns and crown?pieces. If she does
                    not, I shall at least enjoy the satisfaction of having done unto her as, in her
                    place, I would like others to do unto me—which simple axiom expresses and
                    includes all I have been writing on this subject.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                Female Servants.
                THOUGH female servants come under the category of handicraftswomen, yet
                    they form a distinct class, very important in itself, and essential to the
                    welfare of the community.
                A faithful servant—next best blessing, and next rarest, after a faithful
                    friend!—who among us has not had, or wanted, such a one? Some inestimable
                    follower of the family, who has known all the family changes, sorrows, and joys;
                    is always at hand to look after the petty necessities and indescribably small
                    nothings which, in the aggregate, make up the sum of one’s daily comfort; whom
                    one can trust in sight and out of sight—call
                    upon for help in season and out of season; rely on in absence, or sickness, or
                    trouble, to “keep the house going,” and upon whom one can at all times, and
                    under all circumstances, depend for that conscientious fidelity of service which
                    money can never purchase, nor repay.
                And this, what domestic servants ought to be, might be, they are—alas, how
                    seldom!
                Looking round on the various households we know, I fear we shall find that this
                    relation of master (or mistress) and servant—a relation so necessary, as to have
                    been instituted from the foundation of the world, and since so hallowed by both
                    biblical and secular chronicles, as to be, next to ties of blood and friendship,
                    the most sacred bond that can exist between man and man—is, on the whole, as
                    badly fulfilled as any under the sun.
                Whose fault is this?—the superior’s, who, in the march of intellect and education
                        around him, losing somewhat the distinction
                    of mere rank, yet tries to enforce it by instituting external distinctions
                    impossible toe maintained between himself and his dependants?—or the inferior’s,
                    who, sufficiently advanced to detect the weaknesses of the class above him,
                    though not to sure his own, abjures the blind reverence and obedience of ancient
                    times, without attaining to the higher spirit of this our day—when the law of
                    servitude has been remodelled, elevated, and consecrated by Christianity itself,
                    in the person of its Divine Founder? “He that is greatest among
                        you, let him be your servant.”
                This recognition of the sanctity of service, through the total and sublime
                    equality on which, in one sense, are thus placed the server and the served,
                    seems the point whereon all minor points ought to turn, and which, in the solemn
                    responsibility it imposes on both parties, ought never to be absent from the
                    mind of either; yet it is usually one of the
                    very last things likely to enter there.
                To tell Mrs. Jones—who yesterday engaged her cook Betty for fourteen pounds
                    a?year, having beaten her down from fourteen guineas by a compromise about the
                    beer; and who, after various squabbles, finally turned out pretty Susan, the
                    housemaid, into the ghastly Vanity?fair of London, for gossiping on area steps
                    with divers “followers”—or the honourable Mrs. Browne Browne, who keeps
                    Victorine sitting up till daylight just to undo her mistress’s gown, and last
                    week threatened, through she did not dare, to dismiss the fine upper?nurse,
                    because, during the brief minute or two after dessert, when Master Baby
                    appeared, mamma, who rarely sees him at any other time, and never meddles with
                    his education, physical or moral, was shocked to hear from his rosy lips a
                    “naughty word”—to say to these “ladies” that the “women” they employ are of the
                    same feminine flesh and blood, would of course
                    meet nominal assent. But to attempt to get them to carry that truth out
                    practically—to own that they and their servants are of like passions and
                    feelings, capable of similar elevation or deterioration of character, and
                    amenable to the same moral laws—in fact, all “sisters” together, accountable
                    both to themselves and to the other sex for the influence they mutually exercise
                    over one another, would, I fear, be held simply ridiculous. “Sisters” indeed!
                    Certainly not, under any circumstances—except when Death, the greatest Leveller,
                    having permanently interposed, we may safely, over a few spadefuls of earth,
                    venture to acknowledge “our dear sister here departed.”
                I have gone up and down the world a good deal, yet I have scarcely found one
                    household, rich or poor, hard or benevolent, Christian or worldly, aristocratic
                    or democratic, which, however correct in outward practice, could be brought to
                    own as a guiding principle as this, which is
                    apparently the New?Testament principle with regard to service and servants.
                This by no means implies or commands equality; of all shams, there is none so
                    vain as the assertion of that which does not, and cannot exist in this world,
                    and which the highest religious and social legislation never supposes
                    possible.
                For instance, my cook prepares and sends up dinner. From long practice, she does
                    it a hundred times better than I could do; nay, even takes a pleasure and pride
                    in it, for which I am truly thankful, and sincerely indebted to her, too: for a
                    good cook is a household blessing, and no small contributor to health, temper,
                    and enjoyment. Accordingly, I treat her with a certain respectful awe. But I do
                    not invite her to eat her own dinner, or mingle in the society which to me is
                    its most piquant sauce. She was not born to it, not brought up for it. Good old
                    soul! she would gape at the finest bon?mot, and
                    doze over the most intellectual conversation. She is better left in peace by her
                    kitchen?fire.
                Also, though it is a real pleasure to me to watch my neat parlor?maid in and out
                    of the drawing?room, to see by her bright intelligent face that she understands
                    much of whatever talk is going on, and may learn something by it too sometimes;
                    still, I should never think of asking her to take a seat among the guests. Poor
                    little lass! she would be as unhappy and out of place here as I should be in the
                    noisy Christmas party below?stairs, of which she is the very centre of
                    attraction, getting more compliments and mistletoe?kisses than I ever got, or
                    wished for, in my whole lifetime. And, by the same rule, though I like to see
                    her prettily dressed, and never scruple to tell her when she sets my teeth on
                    edge by a blue bow on a green?cotton gown, I do not deem it necessary, when she
                    helps me on with my silk one, to condole her
                    over the said cotton, or to offer her the use of the toilet and my chaperonage
                    at the conversazione to which I am going, where, in the scores I meet, there may
                    be scarcely any face more pleasant, more kindly, or more necessary to me than
                    her own.
                Nevertheless, each is in her station. Providence fixed both where they are; and
                    while they there remain, unless either individual is qualified to change,
                    neither has the smallest right to overstep the barrier between them; recognised,
                    perhaps, better tacitly than openly by either, but never by any ridiculous
                    assumption of equality denied or set aside. Yet one meeting?point there is—far
                    below, or above, all external barriers—the common womanhood in which all share.
                    If anything were to happen to my little maid—if I caught her crying over
                    “father’s” letter, or running in, laughing and rosy, after shutting the back
                    gate on—somebody, I am afraid my heart would warm to her just as much as,
                        though I never left my card at Buckingham
                    Palace, it is prone to do to a certain Lady there, who takes early walks, and
                    goes rides with her little children—apparently a better woman, wife, and mother
                    than nine?tenths of her subjects. Is it not here, then, that true equality
                    lies—in this recognition of a common nature; to the divinely?appointed law of
                    which all external practice is to be referred? Would that both mistresses and
                    servants could be brought to recognise this equality—not as a mere sentimental
                    theory, but as a practical fact, the foundation and starting?point of all
                    relations between them!
                It concerns maids just as much as mistresses; and to them I wish to speak, in the
                    earnest hope that every household which reads this book will do what is a
                    practice, useful and excellent in itself, with all family books,—send it down of
                    quiet evenings, Sundays and holidays, to be read in the kitchen, when the
                        work is done. For, work being done, no
                    mental improvement that is compatible with the duties of his or her calling
                    ought to be forbidden any human being.
                I should like, first, to impress upon all women?servants how very much society
                    depends on them for its well?being, physical and moral. And this, with no fear
                    of thereby increasing their self?conceit: it is not responsibility, but the want
                    or loss of it, which degrades character. To feel that you can or might be
                    something, is often the first step towards becoming it; and it is safest, on the
                    whole, to treat people as better than they are, if, perchance, conscience may
                    shame them into being what they are believed, than to check all hope, paralyse
                    all aspiration, and irritate them, by the slow pressure of contemptuous
                    incredulity, into becoming actually as bad as they are supposed to be. Thus, if
                    the young women to whom has fallen the lot of domestic service, of making homes
                        comfort? able, and especially of taking
                    care of children, could once be make to feel their own importance as a
                    class—their infinite means of usefulness—I think it would stimulate them into a
                    far higher feeling of self?respect and true respectability, and make them of
                    double value to the community at large.
                What do you “go to service” for?—Wages, of course: the object being how much
                    money you can earn, and how easy a place you can get for it. Character is
                    likewise indispensable to you; so you seek out good families, and keep in them
                    for a certain length of time. Meanwhile, the most energetic and sensible among
                    you try to learn as much as lies in your way—but only as a means of bettering
                    yourselves. “To better yourself,” is usually held a satisfactory reason for
                    quitting the most satisfactory place and the kindest of mistresses.
                On the whole, the bond between you and “missis,” is a mere bargain—a matter of
                        pounds, shillings, and pence; you do just
                    as much as she exacts, or as you consider your wages justify her in expecting
                    from you—not a particle more. As to rights, privileges, and perquisites, it is
                    not unfrequently either a daily battle or a sort of armed treaty between kitchen
                    and parlour. The latter takes no interest in the former, except to see that you
                    do your work and keep your place; while you on your part, except for gossip or
                    curiosity, are comfortably indifferent to “the family.” You leave or stay just
                    as it suits them, or yourself, get through a prescribed round of work, are
                    tolerably well?behaved, civil, honest—at least in great matters—and tell no
                    lies, or only as many white ones as will answer your purposes. And so you go on,
                    passing from “place” to “place,” resting nowhere, responsible nowhere; sometimes
                    marrying, and dropping into a totally different sphere, but oftener still
                    continuing in the same course from year to year, laying by little enough, either
                    in wages or attachment; yet doing very well,
                    in your own sense of the term, till sickness or old age overtakes you, and
                    then—where are you?
                I have read somewhere that in our hospitals and lunatic asylums there is, next to
                    governesses, no class so numerous as that of female domestic servants.
                Remember, I am referring not to the lower degrees, but to the respectable among
                    you—those who can always command decent wages and good situations, so long as
                    they are capable of taking them. Of the meaner class, ignorant, stupid, drifted
                    from household to household, from pure incapacity to do or to learn anything, or
                    expelled disgracefully thence for want of (poor wretches! were they ever taught
                    it?) a sense of the common moral necessities of society, which objects to the
                    open breach of at least the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth commandments—of
                    these unhappy dregs of your sisterhood, I cannot now venture to speak. I speak
                    of those, born of respectable parents,
                    starting in service with good prospects, able, generally, to read and write, and
                    gifted with sufficient education and intelligence to make them a blessing to
                    themselves and all about them, if their intelligence were not so often degraded
                    into mere “sharpness,” for want of that quality—rare in all classes, but rarest
                    in yours—moral conscientiousness.
                Why is it that, especially in large towns, a “clever” servant is almost sure to
                    turn out badly? Why do mistresses complain that, while one can get a decent
                    servant, a good?natured servant, a servant who “does her work pretty well, with
                    plenty of looking after,” a conscientious servant is with difficulty, if at all,
                    to be found?
                By conscientious, I mean one who does her duty—that is, the general business of
                    her calling—not merely for wages or a character, or even for the higher motive
                    of “pleasing missis,” but for the highest of all motives—because it
                    is her duty. Because, to cook a dinner, with care and without
                    waste; to keep a house clean and orderly in every corner, seen or not seen; to
                    be scrupulously honest and truthful, in the smallest as in the greatest things;
                    to abstain from pert answers in the parlour, squabbles in the kitchen, and
                    ill?natured tittle?tattle about her fellow?servants or the family—concern not
                    merely her position as a servant, but her conduct and character as a human
                    being, accountable to God as much as the greatest woman that ever was born.
                “Oh, that’s fine talking!” you may say; “but what can I do? what can
                    be expected of me—only a poor servant?”
                Only a poor servant! Only a person whom a whole household is obliged
                    to trust, more or less, with its comfort, order, property, respectability,
                    peace, health—I was going to add, life; who, in times of sickness or trouble,
                    knows more of its secrets than nearest acquaintance; who is aware of all its domestic weakness, faults, and
                    vexations; to whom the “skeleton” said to be in every house must necessarily be
                    a thing guessed at, if not only too familiar; on whom master, mistress,
                    children, or friend, must be daily dependent for numerous small comforts and
                    attentions, scarcely known, perhaps, until they are missed. Only a poor servant!
                    Why, no living creature has more opportunity of doing good or evil, and becoming
                    to others either a blessing or a curse, than a “poor servant!”
                Not if she is a mere bird of passage, flitting from roof to roof, indifferent to
                    everything save what she may pick up to feather her nest with by the way. Not if
                    she starts with the notion that “missis” and she are to always be at war, or on
                    the alert against mutual encroachments, anxious only which can get the most out
                    of the other. Not if she takes to fawning and flattering, humouring her
                    mistress’s weak points, and laughing at her behind her back; betraying the follies or misfortunes of one household into
                    another; carrying on a regular system of double?faced hypocrisy, and fancying
                    she is getting her revenge, and degrading her injurers, when, in fact, she more,
                    much more, degrades herself.
                These are the things which make servants despised; not because they are servants,
                    but because the most of them, if they assume any moral standard at all, hold one
                    so far below that of the class above them, that this class learns to regard and
                    treat them as an inferior order of beings.
                “What can you expect from a servant?” said to me a lady with whom I often used to
                    argue the matter—a good and noble?minded woman, too, among whose few prejudices
                    was this, fixed and immutable, against the whole race of domestics.
                What do I expect from a servant? Why, precisely what I exact from myself—the same
                    honesty of word and act, the same chastity and
                    decency of behavior, self?government in temper and speech, and propriety of
                    dress and manner according to our respective stations.
                Therefore, in any disputed point, I, as being probably the more educated, older,
                    if not wiser of the two, feel bound as much as possible to put myself in her
                    place, to try and understand her feelings and character, before I judge her, or
                    legislate for her. I try in all things to set her an example to follow, rather
                    than abuse her for faults and failings which she has sense enough to see I am
                    just as liable to as she. I would rather help her in the right way, than drive
                    her into it, whip in hand, and take another road myself. Reprove, I ought, and
                    will, as often as she requires it; but reproof is one thing, scolding another:
                    she should never see that I find fault merely from bad temper, or for the
                    pleasure (?) of scolding. Authority I must have: it is for her good as well as
                    mine that there should be only one mistress in the house, to whom obedience must be implicitly rendered, and whose
                    domestic regulations will admit of no idleness, carelessness, or irregularity;
                    but I would scorn to use my authority unjustly, or wantonly, or unkindly, simply
                    for the sake of asserting it. If it is worth anything in itself, she will soon
                    learn that it is not to be disputed.
                And generally, rule, order, and even fair reproof, are among the last things that
                    servants complain of. Selfishness, stinginess, want of consideration for others,
                    are much oftener the fruitful source of all kinds of domestic rebellion, or the
                    distrust which is worse than any open fight—the sense of gnawing injustice,
                    which destroys all respect and attachment between “up?stairs” and
                    “down?stairs.”
                And yet the servant is often very unjust, too. Cook, who has only to dress the
                    dinner, and neither to work for it nor pay for it, turns up her nose at missis’s
                    “meanness,” 
                        i.e.
                        id est
                     displeasure at waste or extravagance—cook, who, if any crash came, has only to look out for another place;
                    while missis has her five children, whose little mouths must be filled, and
                    little bodies must be clothed, and “master,” whom it breaks her heart to see
                    coming in from the City, haggard, tired, and cross—a crossness he cannot help,
                    poor man!—or sitting down with a pitiful patience, sick and sad, almost wishing,
                    save for her and the children, that he could lay his head on her shoulder and
                    die! What does cook in the kitchen, fat and comfortable, know of all these
                    things—of the agonised struggle for position and character—may, mere bread—which
                    makes the days and nights of thousands of the professional classes one long
                    battle for life?
                Also, the pretty housemaid, who has her regular work and periodical holiday, with
                    her “young man” coming faithfully on Sundays, about whom, should he turn out
                    false, she rarely makes a fuss, but quickly takes up with another; she being
                    essentially practical, and mental suf? fering
                    being happily out of her line. Little she guesses of all the conflicts,
                    torments, and endurances which fall to the lot of natures whom a different
                    cultivation, if not a finer organization, has rendered more alive to another
                    sort of trouble—that anguish of spirit which is worse than any bodily pain.
                    Little she knows, when she comes in singing to dust the parlour, of many a cruel
                    scene transacted there; or of many an hour of mortal agony, bitter as death, yet
                    sharpened by the full consciousness of youth and life, which has been spent in
                    the pretty room, outside which she grumbles so, because “miss will
                    keep her door locked, and it’ll be dinner time afore ever a body can get the
                    beds made.”
                Servants should make allowance for these things, and many more which they neither
                    know nor understand. They should respect not out of blind subservience, but mere
                    common sense, the great difference which their narrower education and mode of
                    thought often places between them and “the
                    family,” in its pleasures, tastes, and necessities, and, above all, in its
                    sufferings. This difference must exist: in the happiest homes, cares and
                    anxieties must be for ever arising, like sea?waves, to be breasted or avoided,
                    or dashed against and broken, as may be; and against these the servant must bear
                    her part as well as the mistress. But it is, and ought to be, something to know
                    how often a word or look of respectful sympathy, a quiet little attention, an
                    unofficious observance of one’s comfort in trifles, will, in times of trouble,
                    go direct to the mistress’s heart, with a soothing influence of which the
                    servant has not the slightest idea, and which is never afterwards forgotten.
                “Better is a friend that is near than a brother afar off;” and better, many a
                    time, is the silent kindness of some domestic, who, from long familiarity,
                    understands one’s peculiarities, than the sympathy of many an outside friend,
                    who only rubs against one’s angles, sharpened by sickness or pain and often, unintentionally, hurts more by futile comforting
                    than by total neglect.
                A word on one branch of female service, undeniably the most important of all—the
                    care and management of children.
                I have always, from fond experience, held that child to be the happiest who never
                    had a nursery?maid—only a mother. But this lot is too felicitous to fall to
                    many, and perhaps, after all, would not be in reality so Utopian as in
                    idea—particularly to the mothers. So let us grant hired nurses to be a natural
                    necessity of civilisation.
                Poor things! they certainly need consideration, for they have much to bear.
                    Children are charming—in the abstract; but one sometimes sees the petted cherubs
                    of the drawing?room the little fiends of the nursery, exhibiting, almost before
                    they can speak, passions which would tempt one to believe in original sin,
                        did not education commence with existence.
                    Yet whatever the mysterious law of sin may be that Adam made us liable for, it
                    is possible to bring even infants under the dominion of that law of love—given
                    by the Second Adam—to Whom little children came. And how? By practicing it
                        ourselves.
                Ay; making allowance for the necessary short?comings of all young things, just
                    entered on the experience of life, from kittens to boys, the former being much
                    the least troublesome of the two, I never once knew or heard of a case of
                    irredeemably “naughty” children, in regard to whom parents or nurses, or both,
                    were not originally and principally to blame. I never saw a fretful sullen girl,
                    who had not been made so by selfishness and ill?humour on the part of others, or
                    by tantalising restrictions and compelled submission, hard enough at any age,
                    but especially in childhood. I never knew a revengeful boy, who had not first
                    had the Cain?like spirit put into him by some
                    taunting voice or uplifted hand—not a baby hand; teaching him that
                    what others did he might do, and that the blow he smarted from was exactly the
                    same sort of pain, and dealt in the same spirit, as that he delighted to inflict
                    on nurse or brother, feeling out of his fierce little heart that this was the
                    sole consideration left him for his half?understood but intolerable wrongs.
                Does ever any man or woman remember the feeling of being “whipped”—as a child—the
                    fierce anger, the insupportable ignominy, the longing for revenge, which blotted
                    out all thought of contrition for the fault in rebellion against the punishment?
                    With this recollection on their own parts, I can hardly suppose any parents
                    venturing to inflict it—certainly not allowing its infliction by another, under
                    any circumstances whatever. A nurse?maid or domestic of any sort, once
                    discovered to have lifted up her hand against a child, ought to meet instant
                        severe rebuke, and, on a repetition of the
                    offence, instant dismissal.
                A firm will the nurse must have—which the child will obey, knowing it must be
                    obeyed; but it should be with her no less than with the parents, a loving will
                    always. I will not suppose any young woman so mean and cowardly as to wreak her
                    whims and tempers, or those of her mistress, on the helpless little sinner, who,
                    however annoying, is after all such a very small sinner. I cannot believe she
                    will find it so very hard to love the said sinner, who clings about her
                    helplessly night and day, in the total dependence that of itself produces love.
                    And surely, remembering her own childhood and its events—such nothings now, of
                    such vast moment then, its unjust punishments, unremedied wrongs, and
                    harshly?exacted sacrifices—things which in their results may have affected her
                    temper for years, and even yet are unforgotten—she will strive as much as
                    possible to put herself in her nursling’s
                    place, to look at the world from his point of view, and never, as people often
                    do, to expect from him a degree of perfection which one rarely finds even in a
                    grown person; above all, never to expect from him anything that she does not
                    practise herself.
                It will be seen that I hold this law of kindness as the Alpha and Omega of
                    education. I once asked one—in his own house a father in everything but the
                    name, his authority unquestioned, his least word held in reverence, his smallest
                    wish obeyed—“How did you ever manage to bring up these children?” He said: “By
                        love.”
                That is the question. It is because people have so little love in them, so little
                    purity and truth, self?control and self?denial, that they make such frightful
                    errors in the bringing up of children. When I go from home to home of the middle
                    classes, and see the sort of rule or misrule there, the countless evil
                    influences, physical and spiritual, against which children have to struggle, I declare I often wonder that in the rising
                    generation there should be any good men and women. And when I glance down the
                    Times column of “Want Places,” and speculate how few of these
                    “nurses,” upper and under “girls,” and “nursery?maids,” have the smallest
                    knowledge of their responsibility, or care about fulfilling it, my wonder is,
                    that the new generation should grow up to manhood and womanhood at all.
                This responsibility—if the nurse ever reflects on it—how awful it is! To think
                    that whatever the man may become, learned and great, worldly or wicked, he is at
                    present only the child, courting her smile and coming to her for kisses, or
                    hiding from her frown and sobbing on her neck, “I will be good, I will be good!”
                    That, be she old or young, clever or ignorant, ugly or pretty, she has, next to
                    the mother—sometimes before the mother, though that is a sad thing to see—this
                    all?powerful influence over him, stronger than
                    any he will afterwards allow or own. That it rests with herself how she uses it,
                    whether wisely and tenderly, for the guidance and softening of his nature, or
                    harshly and capriciously, after a fashion which may harden and brutalise him,
                    and make him virtually disbelieve in love and goodness for the remainder of his
                    existence.
                Truly, in this hard world, which they must only too soon be thrust into, it is
                    more essential even for boys than girls that, in the dawn of life, while women
                    solely have the management of them, they should be accustomed to this law of
                    love—love paramount and never ceasing, clearly discernible in the midst of
                    restraint, reproof, and even punishment—love that tries to be always as just as
                    it is tender, and never exercises one of its rights for its own pleasure and
                    good, but for the child’s. To the nurse, unto whom it does not come by instinct,
                    as it does to parents, the practice of it may be difficult—very difficult—but
                    God forbid it should be impossible.
                
                And what a reward there is in this, beyond any form of service—to a woman!
                    Respect and gratitude of parents; consideration from all in the house;
                    affection, fresh, full, and free, and sweet as only a child’s love can be.
                    Trying as the nurse?maids’s life is, countless as are her vexations and pains,
                    how many a childless wife or solitary old maid has envied her, playing at romps
                    for kisses, deafened with ever?sounding rills of delicious laughter all day, and
                    lying down at night with a soft sleepy thing breathing at her side, or wakened
                    of a morning with two little arms tight round her neck, smotheringly expressing
                    a wealth of love that kingdoms could not buy.
                And when she grows an old woman, if, as often happens to domestic servants, she
                    does not marry, but remains in service all her life, it must be her own fault if
                    nurse’s position is not an exceedingly happy and honoured one. Not perhaps, in
                    our modern times, after the fashion of her
                    order in novels and plays—from Juliet’s nurse downwards—but still
                    abounding in comfort and respect. Most likely, she still lives in the
                    family—anyhow, it will be strange if her grown?up “children” do not now and then
                    come and see her, to gossip over those old times, which grow the more precious
                    the further we leave them behind. In time these children’s children—with their
                    other parent, who knew not nurse, and whom nurse still views with rather
                    suspicious curiosity—come and chatter to her, eager to hear all about “pa” or
                    “ma;” how “ma” looked when she was a little baby; whether “pa” was a good boy or
                    a naughty boy, some thirty odd years ago. And—a remarkable moral fact!—the
                    chances that “pa” will gravely confess to the latter; while old nurse, seeing
                    all things through the softening glass of time, will protest that neither he nor
                    any of the children ever gave her the least trouble since they were born!
                
                I have said a good deal, and yet it seems as if I had almost left the subject
                    where I found it, it is so wide. Let me end it in words which, coming into my
                    mind now, transcend all mine, and yet, I trust, have been made the foundation of
                    them; in which case I need not fear. Words open alike to master and
                    servant—studied by how few, yet in which lies the only law of life for all:—
                
                    “Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the
                        flesh; not with eye?service, as men?pleasers; but in singleness of heart,
                        fearing God: and whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not
                        unto men; knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the REWARD.”
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                The Mistress of a Family.
                THE
                    house?mother! what a beautiful, comprehensive word it is! how
                    suggestive of all that is wise and kindly, comfortable and good! Surely, whether
                    the lot comes to her naturally, in the happy gradations of wifehood and
                    motherhood—or as the maiden?mistress of an adopted family,—or, as one could find
                    many instances in this our modern England, when the possession of a large
                    fortune, received or earned, gives her, with all the cares and duties, many of
                    the advantages of matronhood—every such woman must acknowledge that it is a
                    solemn as well as a happy thing to be the mistress of a family.
                
                Easy, pleasant, and beautiful as it is to obey, development of character is not
                    complete when the person is fitted only to obey. There comes a time in most
                    women’s lives when they have to learn how to govern—first, themselves, then
                    those about them. I say, to learn; because it has to be learnt. Love of
                    arbitrary power may come by instinct; as in the very youngest children you may
                    see one fierce little spirit to which all the rest, whether older or younger,
                    succumb: but to domineer and to rule are two distinct arts, proceeding often
                    from totally opposite characters.
                The most of women are, in their youth, at least, by both habit and temperament,
                    as I once heard it expressed by a very acute thinker—decidedly “adjective.” Few
                    of them have ever had the chance of becoming a “noun substantive”—(whether or
                    not that be a natural or enviable position). They have been accustomed all their
                    lives hitherto to be governed, if not guarded; protected or unprotected, as may
                        be; but rarely placed in circumstances
                    where they had actively to assume the guardianship or rule of others. This,
                    then, if it falls to their lot, they have to acquire, difficultly, painfully:
                    often with no preparation, or with what is worse than none, a complete ignorance
                    that there is anything to be acquired! They expect all is to come quite
                    naturally—the due arrangement and superintendence of a house—the regulation of
                    an income—the guidance and control of servants.
                And yet, every family is a little kingdom in itself: the members and followers of
                    which are often as hard to manage as any of the turbulent governments whose
                    discords convulse our world. “Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child!”
                    And woe to thee, O household, when they mistress is—worse than a child—a
                    foolish, ignorant, and incapable woman.
                With families, as with kingdoms, one of the principal evidences of misgovernment
                    is at the working root of the little community—the servants. Why is it that in one half of the families
                    one knows, the grand burden of complaint is—servants? Is the fault altogether on
                    one side?—which side, either party being left to decide: or is it a natural
                    consequence of their relative positions, as ruler and ruled? a state of things
                    equally hateful and inevitable, for which nobody is to blame?
                Let us see—taking at random the most prominent specimens of mistresses of
                    families, which present themselves to every one’s notice who is at all familiar
                    with middle?class society. These, I must distinctly state, are in every case
                    generalisations of a class, and of no personal application; which, indeed, would
                    mar the whole moral of these imaginary portraits, by giving results and unfairly
                    omitting causes.
                For instance, there is Mrs. Smith. You will never once enter that lady’s house
                    without hearing of a change in its domestic arrangements; you will hardly knock
                    at the door four successive weeks, without its
                    being opened by a strange damsel. To count the number of servants Mrs. Smith has
                    had since her marriage, would puzzle her eldest boy, even though he is just
                    going into his multiplication?table. Out of some scores, surely all could not
                    have been so bad; yet, to hear her, no imps of Satan in female form could be
                    worse than those with which her house has been haunted—cooks who sold the
                    dripping, and gave the roast?meat to the policemen; housemaids who could only
                    scrub and scour, and wait at table and clean plate, and keep tidy to answer the
                    door, and who actually had never learned to sew neatly, or to get up fine linen!
                    Nurses wickedly pretty, or thinking themselves so, who had the atrocious
                    impudence to buy a bonnet “just like my last new one,” with flowers inside! Poor
                    Mrs. Smith! Her whole soul is engrossed in the servant?question. Her whole life
                    is a domestic battle—of the mean, scratch?and?snap, spit?and?snarl kind. She has
                    a hand? some house; she gives good wages—that
                    is, her liberal husband does—but not a servant will stay with her.
                And why? Because she is not fitted to be a mistress. She cannot rule—she can only
                    order about; she cannot reprove—she can only scold. Possessing no real dignity,
                    she is always trying to assert its semblance; having little or no education, she
                    is the hardest of all judges upon ignorance. Though so tenacious of her
                    prerogative, that she dismissed Sally Baines for imitating missis’s
                    bonnet—(Heaven forgive you, Mrs. Smith! but do you know where you might find
                    that poor pretty sixteen?year old child now)—still, the more
                    intelligent of her servants soon find out that she is “not a lady;” that, in
                    fact, if one were to strip off her satin gowns, and sell her carriage, and make
                    her inhabit the basement?story instead of the drawing?room of her handsome
                    house, Mrs. Smith would be not one whit superior to her own cook. Her
                        quick?witted parlour?maid is really her
                    superior, and fully aware of it too, as you may see from the way in which she
                    contrives to wind missis round her little finger, get her own way entirely, and
                    rule the house?arrangements from attic to cellar. This being not unprofitable,
                    she will probably outstay many of the other servants—not because she is any
                    better than the rest, but merely cleverer.
                Miss Brown’s household is on quite a different plan. You will never hear the
                    small domestic “rows”—the petty squabbles between mistress and maid, injustice
                    on one side and impertinence on the other. Miss Brown would never dream of
                    quarrelling with “a servant,” any more than with her dog or cat, or some other
                    inferior animal. She strictly fulfils her duty as mistress; gives regular
                    wages,—very moderate, certainly, for her income is much below both her birth and
                    her breeding; exacts no extra service; and is rigidly particular in allowing her
                        servants the due holidays—namely, to
                    church every other Sunday, and a day out once a?month. Her housekeeping is
                    economical without being stingy; everything is expected to go on like
                    clock?work; if otherwise, immediate dismissal follows, for Miss Brown dislikes
                    to have to find fault, even in her own lofty and distant way. She is a
                    conscientious, honourable lady, who exacts no more than she performs; and her
                    servants respect her. But they stand in awe of her; they do not love her. There
                    is a wide gulf between their humanity and hers—you never would believe that they
                    and she shared the same flesh and blood of womanhood, and would end in the same
                    dust and ashes. She is well served, well obeyed, and justly; but—and that is
                    justice, too—she is neither sympathised with nor confided in. Perhaps this truth
                    may have struck home to her sometimes; as when her maid, who had been ill
                    unnoticed for months, in waiting on her one morning dropped down, and— died that night; or when, the day there came
                    news of the battle of Inkermann, she sat hour after hour with the
                    Times in her lap, in her gloomy, lonely dining?room, and not a
                    soul came nigh her to ask or learn from her speechless looks “what of young
                    Captain Brown?”
                In the Jones’s highly respectable family are most respectable servants, clever,
                    quick, attentive, and fully conscious of their own value and capabilities. They
                    dress quite as finely as “the family,” go out with parasols on Sundays, and have
                    their letters directed “Miss.” They guard with jealously all their perquisites
                    and privileges—from the tradesmen’s Christmas?boxes, and the talk outside the
                    nearly?closed front?door with unlimited “followers,” to the dearly?prized right
                    of a pert answer to missis when she ventures to complain. And missis—a kind,
                    easy soul—is rather afraid of so doing; and endures many an annoyance, together
                    with a few real wrongs, rather than sweep her house with the besom of righteous destruction, and annihilate in their
                    sprouting evils that will soon grow up lie rampant weeks. This is no slight
                    regret to Mrs. Jones’s friends, who see that a little judicious authority,
                    steadily and unvaryingly asserted—a little quiet exercise of will, instead of
                    fidgety or nervous fault?finding and needless suspiciousness, would make matters
                    all straight, and reduce this excellent and liberal establishment, from the
                    butler down to the kitchen?maid, to the safe level of a limited monarchy.
                    Instead of which there is a loose sway, which often borders upon that most
                    dangerous of all governments—domestic republicanism.
                This last is the government at Mrs. Robinson’s. She has long let the reins
                    go—leaned back, and slumbered. Where her household will drive to, Heaven only
                    knows! The house altogether takes care of itself. The mistress is too gentle to
                    blame anybody for anything—too lazy to do anything herself, or show anybody else how to do it. I suppose she has eyes,
                    yet you might write your name in dust?tracks on every bit of furniture in her
                    house. She doubtless likes to wear a clean face and a decent gown, for she has
                    tastes not unrefined; yet in Betty, her maid?of?all?work, both these advantages
                    are apparently impossible luxuries. Mrs. Robinson can’t, or believes she can’t,
                    afford what is called a “good” servant—that is, an efficient, responsible woman,
                    who requires equivalent wages for valuable services; therefore she does with
                    poor Betty, a very well?meaning girl, though quite incompetent for the duties
                    she undertakes, and never likely to be instructed therein. For it never seems to
                    strike Betty, or her mistress either, that though poverty may be inevitable,
                    dirt and tatters are not—that a girl, if ever so ignorant, can generally be
                    taught—a house, if ever so small and ill?furnished, can at least be clean—a
                    dinner, if ever so plain, nay, scanty, may be well cooked and well arranged; and however the servants fall short, every
                    mistress has always her own intelligent brain, and has, at the worst, her own
                    pair of active hands. Did you ever consider that last possibility, my good Mrs.
                    Robinson? Would Betty honour you less if, every morning, she saw you dust a
                    chair or two, or hunt out lurking ambushes of spiders—shaming her into knowledge
                    and industry by the conviction, that what she left undone her mistress would
                    certainly do? Would you be less amiable in your husband’s eyes by the discovery
                    that it was you yourself who cooked, and then taught Betty to cook, his
                    comfortable dinner? Would he have less pleasure in petting your dainty fingers
                    for seeing on them a few needle?marks, caused by the sewing of tidy
                    chair?covers, or the mending of clean threadbare carpets, so as to make the best
                    of his plain, quiet home, where Heaven has at once denied the blessing a spared
                    the responsibility of children? But you may be as ignorant as Betty herself. I am afraid you are. Let
                    me give you a golden rule—“Never expect a servant to do that which you cannot
                    do, or, if necessary, will learn to do, yourself.”
                Mrs. Johnson, now, will be a very good illustration of this. I doubt if she is
                    any richer than Mrs. Robinson; for a few years after her marriage, I know it was
                    very uphill?work indeed with the young couple; especially for the wife, who,
                    married at nineteen, was as ignorant as any school?girl. She and her cook are
                    reported to have studied Mrs. Glass together. To this day, I fancy the praise of
                    any special dinner would be modestly received as conjointly due to “missis and
                    me.” So, doubtless, would any grand effect in household arrangements, though,
                    where all goes on so smoothly and orderly, that the most sudden visitor would
                    only necessitate an extra knife and fork, and a clean pair of sheets in the
                    spare room, there is not much opportunity for any coup d’état in the housemaid?line. As for the nursery?staff—but since her boys could walk
                    alone, Mrs. Johnson has abolished the nursery altogether. If she has no more
                    children, these two lads will have the infinite blessing of never being
                    “managed” by any womenkind save their mother. Of course it is a busy, and often
                    hard life for her; and her handmaidens know it. They see her employed form
                    morning to night, happy and merry enough, but always employed. They themselves
                    would be ashamed to be lazy; they would do anything in the world to lighten
                    things to missis. If little delicate Fred is ailing, Jane will sit up half the
                    night with him, and still get up at five the next morning. Mary, the cook, does
                    not grumble at any accidental waiting, if missis, in her sewing, has the
                    slightest need of Jane. Both would work their fingers to the bone any day to
                    save her the least trouble or pain. Not a cloud comes across her path—not a day
                    of illness—her own of her little ones’—shadows her bright looks, but is felt as
                        an absolute grief in the kitchen. Jane’s
                    face, as she opens the front door, is a sufficient indication to all friends as
                    to how things are with “the family;” and if you, being very intimate, make any
                    chance inquiry of Mary in the street, ten to one she will tell you everything
                    Mrs. Johnson has done, and exactly how she has looked, for a week past, ending
                    with a grave, respectful remark, ventured in right of her own ten years of
                    eldership, that she “is afraid missis is wearing herself out, and would you
                    please to come and see her?”
                And missis, on her side, returns the kindly interest. She likes to hear anything
                    and everything that her damsels may have to tell, from the buying of a new gown
                    to the birth of a new nephew. Any relatives of theirs who may appear in the
                    kitchen, she generally goes to speak to, and welcomes always kindly. She is glad
                    to encourage family affection, believing it to be quite as necessary and as
                    beautiful in a poor housemaid as in a
                    sentimental lady. Love, also. She has not the smallest objection to let that
                    young baker come in to tea on Sundays, entering honestly at the front?door,
                    without need of sneaking behind area?railings. And if, on such Sundays, Jane is
                    rather absent and awkward, with a tendency to forget the spoons, and put hot
                    plates where cold should be, her mistress pardons all, and tempers master’s
                    indignation by reminding him of a certain summer, not ten years back, when —,
                    &c. Upon which he kisses his little wife, and grows mild.
                Thus the family have no dread of “followers,” no visions of burglarious
                    sweethearts introduced by the kitchen?window, or tribes of locust “cousins”
                    creating a famine in the larder. Having always won confidence, Mrs. Johnson has
                    little fear of being deceived. When pretty Jane can make up her mind, doubtless
                    there will occur that most creditable event to both parties—the maid being
                    married from her mis tress’s house. Of course,
                    Jane would be a great loss, or Mary either; but Mary is growing middle?aged, and
                    is often seen secretly petting Master Fred, as only old maid?servants do pet the
                    children of “the family.” Freddy says, she has promised never to leave him; and
                    her mistress, who probably knows as much of Mary’s affairs as anybody, does not
                    think it likely she ever will.
                The Johnson household is the best example I know of the proper relation between
                    kitchen and parlour. True, Jane and Mary are estimable women—might have been
                    such in any “place;” but I will do human nature the justice to believe, that the
                    class of domestic servants contains many possible Janes and Marys, if only their
                    good qualities could be elicited by a few more Mrs. Johnsons.
                It is an obvious law, that any movement for social advancement must necessarily
                    commence in the higher class, and gradually influence the lower. By higher and lower, I mean simply as regards
                    moral and intellectual cultivation, which, continued through generations and
                    become a habit of life, makes, and is the only thing that does or ought to make,
                    the difference between master and servant, patrician and plebian. Mrs. Thompson,
                    descended from the clan Robertson, a very superior family, has a great deal more
                    chance of being a lady than Peg Thompson her nursery?maid, whose father,
                    grandfather, &c., have been farm?labourers. But if, by any of her not
                    rare freaks, Dame Nature should have placed in Peg’s uncouth body the soul of a
                    gentlewoman, together with that rare quality of rising, which, in spite of
                    circumstances, enables many refined minds to reach their natural level—if so,
                    Mrs. Thompson should not have the slightest objection to assist that desirable
                    end in every possibly way. Nay, finally, it might be rather a pleasure to her
                    some day to sit at table with Miss Margaret Thompson; and she should altogether scorn the behaviour of that fine
                    gentleman who once “cut” honest Dodsley the publisher?footman—of whom the meek
                    old fellow only observed: “Yes, he knows me; I used to wait behind his
                    chair.”
                But since the laws of nature and of circumstance have made some to be mistresses
                    and others servants—giving to the one incalculably more chances of superiority
                    than the other, would it not be as well if more ladies would try to prove this
                    superiority instead of resting content in the mere assertion thereof? The
                    proverb asserts, “A good mistress will make a good servant.” Whether this is
                    possible or not, all will agree that the best servant in the world cannot make a
                    good mistress.
                The reformatory process must necessarily commence with the superior.
                Also the root of all improvement must be the mistress’s own conviction, religious
                    and sincere, of the truth, more than once already urged here, but which cannot be too often referred to, that she
                    and her servants share one common womanhood: alike in its mental and physical
                    weakness; in its capabilities of advancement and deterioration; in its tempers,
                    passions, prejudices: with aims, hopes, or interests distinctly defined, and
                    pursued with equal eagerness; with a life here, meant as a school for the next
                    life; with an immortal soul.
                A lady who can once be made to feel that, so far as any human soul can be made
                    responsible for another, she is responsible for that of every domestic who
                    enters her house, has gained one step from which she is not likely ever to
                    backslide. And if accountable for the soul—the better part,—so also for the
                    body. Since, with advanced knowledge, we are all now beginning to recognise—some
                    with the stolid assent of materialism, and some with the Christian’s holy wonder
                    at this human machine, made too wonderfully to be made for nothing, and by no one,—how mysteriously soul and body act
                    and react upon one another; how one half of the shortcomings of the spirit
                    springs from mere bodily causes; and how a healthy soul can stimulate even the
                    poorest and most unsound dwelling?house of flesh and blood into something of its
                    own beauty and divineness.
                And yet there is a saying that one sometimes hears, and sees silently in action
                    perpetually—“Anything will do for the servants.” Kitchen and parlour are placed
                    on quite a different footing; not only with regard to coarser food—reasonable
                    enough sometimes, when the parlour has nice or sickly tastes, and the kitchen is
                    blessed with the wholesome omnivorous appetite of hard work and an easy mind—but
                    in the regular routine of daily life. “Late to bed and early to rise,” yet still
                    expected to be “both healthy and wise;” compelled to sleep in damp, heat,
                    uncleanliness, or ill?ventilation—anything is good enough for a “servant’s bedroom;
                        ”
                        
                     allowed no time for personal
                    attention, sewing, or mending, yet required to be always “tidy;” kept at work
                    constantly, without regard to how much and what sort of work each person’s
                    strength can bear; yet supposed to be capable of working on for ever, without
                    that occasional intermixture of “play,”—not idleness, but wholesome
                    amusement—without which every human being grows dull, dispirited, falls into
                    ill?humour, and finally into ill?health. Truly it often makes one’s heart ache
                    to think of the sort of life even well?meaning mistresses make their servants
                    lead; and it would be curious, were it not so melancholy, to pause and consider,
                    if in all one’s acquaintance there are half?a?dozen ladies under whom, did fate
                    compel, one would choose to “go into service.”
                My dear madam—who may be opening your eyes widely at this heterodox view of the
                    question—you have no right to keep a servant at all unless you can keep her
                    comfortable. You did not buy her, body and soul, like a negro slave; you only took her on hired service, to fulfil certain
                    duties, which you must exact from her kindly and firmly, for her good as well as
                    yours: but you have no right to any more. Except so far as nature and education
                    have instituted a difference between you, you are not justified in placing
                    either her enjoyments or necessities on a lower level than your own. The same
                    sanitary laws, of physical and mental well?being, apply to you both; and neither
                    can break them, or be allowed to break them, with impunity.
                Moral laws, also. Mrs. Smith thinks it is against her that poor Sally Baines
                    sinned in the matter of the bonnet. Foolish Mrs. Smith! Suppose you were to
                    purchase at Swan and Edgar’s that hundred?guinea Cachemire labelled “the Queen’s
                    choice”—whom would you harm, her Majesty or yourself? So, when your Emma or
                    Betsy buys a silk gown and a twelve?shilling parasol, she errs, and grievously,
                    too: but it is against herself. She lowers her own self?respect by striving to maintain a false position; wastes in
                    shabby showiness the money that she ought to lay up for sickness, old age, or
                    marriage, and the happy duty of helping others; loses the simple neatness
                    befitting the resectable maid?servant, and becomes ridiculous as the sham
                    fine?lady.
                But in this complaint, only too general, of servants “dressing above their
                    place,” the mistress’s own example is the best warning and reproof: a thing, my
                    poor Mrs. Smith, which it would be vain to look for from you. Equally vain in
                    another matter, which applies as stringently to that wretched Sally Baines—whom,
                    if she now came drunk and flaunting to your area?gate, you would hustle away in
                    charge of X 25—as to your own little daughter, whom you hope one day to see Mrs.
                    Somebody, and will take all available maternal means to that desirable end.
                You do not think it, but the kitchen is made of flesh and blood as well as the
                        parlour. However you may insist upon “No
                    followers allowed,” Emma will meet her sweetheart round the corner, and cook
                    will startle your nerves after five years’ service with “Please suit yourself,
                    marm, as I’m a?going to be married.” Happy for you if no worse than this. For
                    you are exacting an injustice—an impossibility: you are instituting a state of
                    things which, from its very unnaturalness, fives a premium to deceit and
                    immorality. Love—nay, I beg your pardon; you don’t understand what that word
                    means—but courting, which looks so pretty in the drawing?room, you
                    treat as a crime in the kitchen; and therefore it is very likely to become such.
                    An honest lover—as much Emma’s right as your own when you took up with Mr.
                    Smith—you degrade into a “follower,” who has to sneak about areas, hide in
                    coal?cellars, and be gossiped with behind doors. Consequently, there can be no
                    inquiry into his character, no open acknowledgment of an honourable attachment,
                    which neither mistress nor maid need ever be
                    ashamed of; everything goes on underhand, and if discovered at all, is generally
                    in such a miserable form as to make prudent Mrs. Smiths firmer than ever in
                    their impossible edict, never obeyed. Whilst other women, accustomed to regard
                    love and marriage according to the standard of the better classes, are shocked
                    at the low tone of thought on such subjects, which inevitably results in that
                    low tone of morals almost universally prevalent among the ranks from which
                    female servants are recruited.
                It is worth while trying whether—since dark deeds and ill feelings can only be
                    conquered by being brought to the light—mistresses should not make the
                    experiment of saying, as every mother ought to say to her daughters—(alas, how
                    few do! and what a train of horrible evils often results from that want of
                    confidence between mother and child!)—“Be honest with me. I don’t expect from
                    you more than human nature is capable of. I
                    expect you to fall in love and be married: all I desire is that you should love
                    worthily, and marry wisely. Only be honest. No falsehoods, no concealments of
                    any kind. Let everything be plain, open, and above?board; tell the truth, and
                    don’t be afraid.”
                Perhaps, then we should have less of these frightful cases of shame and sorrow,
                    or those hasty marriages, of which one so often hears—when a decent, respectable
                    girl, after a few months’ wedlock, comes back to her old mistress, ragged and
                    destitute, with a husband in jail for bigamy, or against whom she has to swear
                    the peace, for that brutal ill?usage which makes us English disgraced abroad as
                    “the nation that beats its wives.”
                In households as in states there must be one ruling head—and there ought to be
                    but one. Every person knows what sort of system that is, which I have called
                    domestic republicanism. Whether or not it is best for kingdoms, in families the only safe form of government is
                    autocracy.
                And the autocrat should decidedly be the lady, the mistress. The master, be he
                    father, husband, or brother, has quite enough to do without?doors. He is the
                    bread?winner; the woman, the bread?keeper, server, and expender. Nature as well
                    as custom has—save in very exceptional cases—instituted this habit of life, and
                    any alteration of it, making mamma attend the law?courts and Exchange, or drive
                    about on a series of medical visits, while papa stays at home to cook the dinner
                    and nurse the babies, would assuredly be very bad, if not for himself, for the
                    diner and the babies.
                No. We of the “softer” sex, though not by any means really so soft as we are
                    complimented and coaxed into appearing, have no call, and, mostly, no desire to
                    force ourselves into the province of men. We feel that we are not fitted for it.
                    Female doctors—though all honour be to those
                    heroic, self?sacrificing women, who are capable of undertaking such a
                    profession—female missionaries, travellers, and life?long devotees to science,
                    art, or philanthropy, are and always will be rare and peculiar cases, not to be
                    judged by ordinary rules. The average number of us are content to leave to men
                    their own proper place: but none the less resolutely ought we to keep our
                    own—one of the first “rights” of which is, the supreme rule in all domestic
                    concerns.
                A man has no business to meddle in the management of the house. No business,
                    except through hard necessity, or the saddest incompetency on the part of
                    others, or poke over the weekly bills, and insist on knowing what candles are
                    per pound, whether the washing is done at home or abroad, and what he is going
                    to have every day for dinner. He who voluntarily and habitually interferes in
                    these things must be a rather small?minded gentleman, uncommonly in? convenient to his family and servants. Perhaps to
                    more than they: since a man who is always “muddling about” at home is rarely a
                    great acquisition to the world outside.
                I once heard a married lady say, with great glee and satisfaction: “Oh, Mr. —
                    saves me all trouble in housekeeping; he orders dinner, and goes to the
                    butcher’s to choose it, too ; pays all the bills, and keeps the weekly accounts:
                    he never wants me to do anything,” Thought I privately, “My dear, if I were you
                    I should be very much ashamed both of myself and Mr. —.”
                When a house boasts both master and mistress, each should leave to the other the
                    appointed work, and both qualify themselves rightly to fulfil the same,
                    abstaining as much as possible from mutual interference. A man who can trust his
                    wife or his housekeeper should no more meddle with her home concerns than she
                    should pester him with questions about his business. No doubt, countless occasions will arise when he will
                    be thankful and glad to take counsel with her in worldly cares; while she may
                    have to remember all her life long, and never think of without a gush of
                    gratitude and love, some season of sickness or affliction, when he filled his
                    own place and hers too, ashamed of no womanish task, and neither irritated nor
                    humiliated by ever such mean household cares.
                A lady of my acquaintance gives it as her sine
                        quâ non of domestic felicity, that the “men of the family” should
                    always be absent at least six hours in the day. And truly a mistress of a
                    family, however strong her affection for the male members of it, cannot but
                    acknowledge that this is a great boon. A house where “papa” or the “boys” are
                    always “pottering about,” popping in and out at all hours, everlastingly wanting
                    something, or finding fault with something else, is a considerable trial to even
                    feminine patience. And I beg to ask my sex
                    generally—in confidence, of course—if it is not the greatest comfort possible
                    when, the masculine half of the family being cleared out for the day, the house
                    settles down into regular work and orderly quietness until evening?
                Also, it is good for them, as well as for us, to have all the inevitable petty
                    domestic “bothers” got over in their absence; to effect which ought to be one of
                    the principle aims of the mistress of a family. Let them, if possible, return to
                    a quiet smiling home, with all its small annoyances brushed away like the dust
                    and cinders from the grate—which, en
                        passant, is one of the first requisites to make a fireside look
                    comfortable. It might be as well, too, if the master himself could contrive to
                    leave the worldly mud of the day at the scraper outside his door; however, as
                    these chapters do not presume to lecture the lords of creation, I have nothing
                    more to say on that score.
                But she who, the minute an unfortunate man
                    comes home, fastens upon him with a long tale of domestic grievances, real or
                    imagined—how the butcher will never bring the meat in time, and the baker keeps
                    a false account of loaves—how she is sure cook is given to drink, and that
                    Mary’s “cousin” had his dinner off “our” mutton yesterday;—why, such a lady
                    deserves all she gets: cold looks, sharp speeches, hasty plunges into the
                    convenient newspaper; perhaps an angry cigar—a walk, with no invitation for her
                    company—or the club. Poor little woman! sitting crying over her lonely fire, not
                    owning that she is wrong, but only that she is very unhappy, and very much
                    ill?used, might one recommend to her notice one golden rule?—“Never pester a man
                    with things that he cannot remedy and does not understand.” Also, for her own
                    benefit as well as his, a harmless rhyme, true enough of minor vexations,
                    whatever it may be of the greater griefs it so philosophically disposes of:—
                    
                        “For every evil under the sun
                        There is a remedy—or there’s none:
                        If there is one, try and find it;
                        If there isn’t, never mind it.”
                    
                And when he comes in again, honest man! perhaps a little repentant, too, there is
                    but one course of conduct which I recommend to all sensible women, viz. to put
                    her arms round his neck, and—hold her tongue.
                But the house?mother has her troubles; ay, be she ever so gifted with that
                    blessed quality of taking them lightly and cheerfully; weighing them at their
                    just value and no more; never tormenting herself and everybody else by that
                    peculiarity of selfish and narrow minds, which makes the breaking of a plate as
                    terrible a calamity as the crash of an empire. No one can hold the reins of
                    family government for ever so brief a time, without feeling what a difficult
                    position it is: how great its daily need of self?control, as the very first
                    means of controlling others; of incessant individual acti? vity, and a personal carrying out of all regulations
                    instituted for the ordering of the establishment, which, unless faithfully
                    observed by the mistress—the eye and heart of the house—are no more than a dead
                    letter to the rest of the establishment.
                No doubt this entails considerable self?sacrifice. It is not pleasant for lazy
                    ladies to get breakfast over at that regular early hour, which alone sets a
                    household fairly a?going for the day: nor for unarithmatical ladies, who have
                    always reckoned their accounts by sixpences, to put down each item, and
                    persevere in balancing periodically receipts and expenditures: nor for weakly,
                    nervous, self?engrossed ladies, to rouse themselves sufficiently to put their
                    house in order, and keep it so; nor by occasional spasmodic “setting to rights,”
                    but by a general methodical overlooking of all that is going on therein. Yet,
                    unless all this is done, it is in vain to insist on early rising, or grumble
                        about waste, or lecture upon neatness,
                    cleanliness, and order. The servants get to learn that “missis is never in
                    time;” and laugh at her complaints of their unpunctuality. They see no use in
                    good management, or avoidance of waste;—“Missis never knows about anything.” She
                    may lecture till she is weary about neatness and cleanliness;—“Just put your
                    head into her room and see!” For all moral qualities, good temper, truth,
                    kindliness, and above all, conscientiousness, if these are deficient in the
                    mistress, it is idle to expect them from servants, or children, or any members
                    of the family circle.
                Yet this fact, so trite that readers may smile at its being urged at all, is the
                    last to be generally acted upon. Mistresses blame all persons about them, and
                    Providence above them;—for does it not often virtually mean that? every thing
                    and every body except themselves. They will not see, that until a woman has done
                    all that is in her power to do, striving with
                    antagonistic circumstances, great and small, and chiefly with her own self, her
                    errors of character, and weakness of temperament—until then she has no right to
                    begin blaming anybody. It is vain to attempt showing them, what is plain enough
                    to any unbiassed student of life in the abstract—and this ought to strike
                    solemnly upon the mind of every woman who feels that where much is given much is
                    required—that, however fatally the conduct of the master may affect the external
                    fortunes of a family, there are very few families whose internal mismanagement
                    and domestic unhappiness are not mainly the fault of the mistress.
                The house?mother! where could she find a nobler title, a more sacred
                    charge? All these souls, given into her hand to be cared for, both in great
                    things and small—if anything can be called small on which rests the comfort of a
                    family; and that to a degree which can never be too much appreciated. For
                        instance, good temper is with many people
                    dependent upon good health; good health upon good digestion; good digestion upon
                    wholesome, well?prepared food, eaten in peace and pleasantness. Ill?cooked,
                    untidy meals, are as great a cause of bad temper as many a moral wrong; and a
                    person of sensitive physique may be nursed into settled hypochondria by living
                    in close rooms, where the sweet fresh air and sunshine are determinedly shut
                    out, and the foul air as determinedly shut out, and the foul air as determinedly
                    shut in. While those nervous, irritable temperaments, which, either from the
                    slow deterioration of our race, or our modern error of cultivating the mind at
                    the expense of the body, are getting so common now?a?days, are often driven
                    almost into madness by the non?observance of those ordinary sanitary rules,
                    ignorance or neglect of which, bad enough in anybody, is in the mistress of a
                    family scarcely less than a crime.
                Yet most of these short?comings in women, on
                    whom this responsibility has fallen, are by no means intentional. A girl marries
                    early, thinking only how pleasant it is to have a house of one’s own, and never
                    once how difficult it is to manage it: perhaps she makes a pride, and her young
                    husband a joke, of her charming ignorance on common things—à la
                        David and Dora Copperfield—pretty enough while it
                    lasts. But only picture these poor little silly Doras living,
                    instead of, happily, dying! Drifting on to middle age—helpless, burdensome
                    wives—lazy, feeble, many?childed mothers; meaning well enough, but incapable of
                    acting upon their good intentions; either sinking into a hopeless indifference,
                    which is not content, or wearing themselves out with weak complainings, which
                    never result in any amendment. Poor dear women! we may pity and pardon,
                    acknowledge their many gentle and estimable qualities; but all the passive
                    sweetness in the world will not make up for active goodness; and there is many a “most amiable woman,”
                    who, whatever she might have been in an inferior position, when unhappily she is
                    mistress of a family, by her over?kindness, lazy laxity, and general laissez?faire, does as much harm as the
                    greatest shrew who ever embittered the peace of a household.
                Power, of whatsoever kind and degree, so that it is just and lawful, is a
                    glorious thing to have, a noble thing to use. But what shall be said for the
                    woman who has had it and thrown it away, or retained it only to misuse it? Woe
                    betide both her and all connected with her! for she has ceased to injure herself
                    alone. Every life that was given her in charge for health of body and mind,
                    peace, comfort, and enjoyment, will assuredly one day rise up in judgment
                    against her. We can imagine such an one, suddenly waking up to the consciousness
                    of all she has done and left undone—what those belonging to her are, and what she might, under God, have made
                    them—crying out in her agony, “Would that I had never been born!”
                At present, the happiest thing for her—if there can be any happiness in a
                    self?deception—is, that she really is unaware of her own position—that most
                    humiliating position of a woman who is not mistress in her own family; whose
                    servants disobey or despise her, whose children rule her, whose husband snubs
                    her or neglects her, whose friends and neighbors criticise, compassionate, or
                    laugh at her. Who, though anything but a bad woman, will slip through existence
                    without dignity, effecting little or no real good: at best only patiently borne
                    with and kindly treated while she lives, and her place filled up, some few
                    regretting awhile, but none really missing her, as soon as ever she dies.
                What a contrast to that portrait—standing out as true a photograph of nature in
                        this our modern day, as it did in those
                    ancient days, under the glowing sun of the East, “the words of King Lemuel,”
                    that “his mother taught him.” 
                        
                            “Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above
                                rubies.
                            The heart of her husband doth sadly trust in her, so that she shall
                                have no need of spoil.
                            She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.
                        
                        
                             * * * * *
                            She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms.
                            She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the
                                distaff.
                            She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yes, she reacheth forth her
                                hands to the needy.
                        
                        
                             * * * * *
                            Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders
                                of the land.
                        
                        
                             * * * * *
                            Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time
                                to come.
                            She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of
                                kindness.
                            She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the
                                bread of idleness.
                            
                            Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he
                                praiseth her.
                            Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.
                            Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the
                                Lord, she shall be praised.
                            Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her
                                in the gates,’
                        
                    
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                Female Friendships.
                
                    
                        “And what is Friendship but a name,
                        A charm that lulls to sleep,
                        A shade that follows wealth and fame,
                        And leaves the wretch to weep?”
                    
                
                THIS remark, expressed too tersely and intelligibly to be considered
                    “poetry” now?a?days, must apply to the nobler sex. Few observant persons will
                    allege against ours, that even in its lowest form our friendship is deceitful.
                    Fickle it may be, weak, exaggerated, sentimental—the mere lath?and?plaster
                    imitation of a palace great enough for a demigod to dwell in—but it is rarely
                    false, parasitical, or diplomatic. The countless secondary motives which many
                        men are mean enough to have—nay, to
                    own—are all but impossible to us; impossible from the very faults of our
                    nature—our frivolity, irrationality, and incapacity to seize on more than one
                    idea at the same time. In truth, a sad proportion of us are too empty?headed to
                    be double?minded, too shallow to be insincere. Nay, even the worst of us being
                    more direct and simple of character than men are, our lightest friendship—the
                    merest passing liking that we decorate with that name—is, while it lasts, more
                    true than the generality of the so?called “friendships” of mankind.
                But—and this “but” will, I am aware, raise a whole nest of hornets—from our very
                    peculiarities of temperament, women’s friendships are rarely or never so firm,
                    so just, or so enduring, as those of men—when you can find them.
                    Damon and Pythias, Orestes and Pylades, Brutus and Cassius—last and loveliest,
                    David and Jonathan, are pictures unmatched by any from our sex, down even to the far?famed ladies of Llangollen.
                    When such a bond really does exist, from its exception to general masculine
                    idiosyncrasies—especially the enormous absorption in and devotion to Number
                    One—from its total absence of sentimentality, its undemonstrativeness, depth,
                    and power, a friendship between two men is a higher thing than between any two
                    women—nay, one of the highest and noblest sights in the whole world. Precisely
                    as, were comparisons not as foolish as they are odious, a truly good man, from
                    the larger capacities of male nature both for virtue and vice, is, in one sense,
                    more good than any good woman. But this question I leave to controversialists,
                    who enjoy breaking their own heads, or one another’s, over a bone 
                        of
                        
                     contention which is usually not worth picking after all.
                Yet, though dissenting from much of the romance talked about female friendships,
                    believing that two?thirds of them spring from mere idle? ness, or from that besoin d’aimer which, for want of natural domestic ties, makes
                    this one a temporary substitute, Heaven forbid I should so malign my sex as to
                    say they are incapable of an emotion which, in its right form and place,
                    constitutes the strength, help, and sweetness of many, many lives; and the more
                    so because it is one of the first sweetnesses we know.
                Probably there are few women who have not had some first friendship, as delicious
                    and almost as passionate as first love. It may not last—it seldom does; but at
                    the time it is one of the purest, most self?forgetful and self?denying
                    attachments that the human heart can experience: with many, the nearest
                    approximation to that feeling called love—I mean love in its highest form, apart
                    from all selfishness and sensuousness—which in all their after?life they will
                    ever know. This girlish friendship, however fleeting in its character, and
                    romantic, even silly, in its manifestations, let us take heed how we make light of, lest we be mocking at things more
                    sacred than we are aware.
                And yet, it is not the real thing—not friendship, but rather a kind
                    of foreshadowing of love; as jealous, as exacting, as unreasoning—as wildly
                    happy and supremely miserable; ridiculously so to a looker?on, but to the
                    parties concerned, as vivid and sincere as any after?passion into which the girl
                    may fall; for the time being, perhaps long after, colouring all her world. Yet
                    it is but a dream, to melt away like a dream when love appears; or if it then
                    wishes to keep up its vitality at all, it must change its character, temper its
                    exactions, resign its rights: in short, be buried and come to life again in a
                    totally different form. Afterwards, should Laura and Matilda, with a house to
                    mind and a husband to fuss over, find themselves actually kissing the babies
                    instead of one another—and managing to exist for a year without meeting, or a
                    month without letter?writing, yet feel life no blank, and affection a reality still—then their attachment
                    has taken its true shape as friendship, shown itself capable of friendship’s
                    distinguishing feature—namely, tenderness without appropriation; and the women,
                    young or old, will love one another faithfully to the end of their lives.
                Perhaps this, which is the test of the sentiment, explains why we thus seldom
                    attain to it, in its highest phase, because nature has made us in all our
                    feelings so intensely personal. We have instincts, passions, domestic
                    affections, but friendship is, strictly speaking, none of the three. It is—to
                    borrow the phrase to misused by that arch im?moralist, that
                    high?priest of intellectual self?worship, Goethe—an elective affinity, based
                    upon the spiritual consanguinity, which, though frequently co?existent with, is
                    different from any tie of instinct or blood?relationship. Therefore, neither the
                    sanctities nor weaknesses of these rightly appertain to it; its duties,
                    immunities, benefits and pains, belong to a distinct sphere, of which the vital atmosphere is a perfect liberty. A
                    bond, not of nature but of choice, it should exist and be maintained calm, free,
                    and clear, having neither rights nor jealousies; at once the firmest and most
                    independent of all human ties.
                “Enough,” said Rasselas to Imlac; “you convince me that no man can ever be a
                    poet.” And truly, reviewing friendship in its purest essence, one is prone to
                    think that, in this imperfect world of ours, no man—certainly no woman—ever can
                    be a friend. And yet we all own some dozens; from Mrs. Granville
                    Jones, who invites “a few friends”—say two hundred—to pass with her a “social
                    evening”—to the poor costermonger, who shouts after the little pugilistic sweep
                    the similar tragico?comic saying: “Hit him hard; he’s got no friends!” And who
                    that is not an utter misanthrope would refuse to those of his or her
                    acquaintance that persist in claiming it, the kindly title, and the pleasant
                    social charities which belong thereto?
                    
                        “Love is sweet,
                        Given or returned;”
                     and so is friendship; when, be it ever so infinitesimal in quantity, its
                    quality is unadulterated
                        ,
                         
                     springing, as, I repeat, women’s friendship almost always does spring,
                    out of that one?idea’d impulsiveness, often wrong?headed, but rarely
                    evil?hearted, which makes us at once so charming and so troublesome, and which,
                    I fear, never will be got out of us till we cease to be women, and become what
                    men sometimes call us—and they will know they give us but too much need to
                    be—angels.
                Yes, with all our folly, we are not false: not even when Lavinia Smith adores
                    with all her innocent soul the condescending Celestina Jones, though meeting
                    twenty years after as fat Mrs. Brown and vulgar Mrs. Green, they may with
                    difficulty remember one another’s Christian names: not when Bessy Thompson,
                    blessed with three particularly nice brothers, owns likewise three times three “dearest” friends, who honestly
                    persuade themselves and her that they come only to see dear Bessy; nevertheless,
                    the fondness is real enough to outlast many bothers caused by said brothers, or
                    even a cantankerous sister?in?law to end with. Nay, when Miss Hopkins, that
                    middle?aged and strong?minded “young lady” of blighted affection, and Mrs.
                    Jenkins, that woman of sublime aspirations, who has unluckily “mated with a
                    clown,” coalesce against the opposite sex, fall into one another’s arms and vow
                    eternal friendship—for a year; after which, for five more, they make all their
                    acquaintances uncomfortable by their eternal enmity—even in this lamentable
                    phase of the sentiment, it is more respectable than the time?serving,
                    place?hunting, dinner?seeking devotion which Messrs. Tape and Tadpole choose to
                    denominate “friendship.”
                Men may laugh at us, and we deserve it: we are
                    often egregious fools, but we are honest fools; and our folly, at least in this
                    matter, usually ends where theirs begins—with middle life, or marriage.
                It is the unmarried, the solitary, who are most prone to that sort of
                    “sentimental” friendship with their own or the opposite sex, which, though often
                    most noble, unselfish, and true, is in some forms ludicrous, in others
                    dangerous. For two women, past earliest girlhood, to be completely absorbed in
                    one another, and make public demonstration of the fact, by caresses or quarrels,
                    is so repugnant to common sense, that where it ceases to be silly it becomes
                    actually wrong. But to see two women, whom Providence has denied nearer ties, by
                    a wise substitution making the best of fate, loving, sustaining, and comforting
                    one another, with a tenderness often closer than that of sisters, because it has
                    all the novelty of election which belongs to the conjugal tie itself—this, I say, is an honourable and lovely
                    sight.
                Not less so the friendship—rare, I grant, yet quite possible—which subsists
                    between a man and woman whom circumstances, or their own idiosyncrasies,
                    preclude from the slightest chance of ever “falling in love.” That such
                    friendships can exist, especially between persons of a certain temperament and
                    order of mind, and remain for a lifetime, utterly pure, interfering with no
                    rights, and transgressing no law of morals or society, most people’s observation
                    of life will testify; and he must take a very low view of human nature who dares
                    to say that these attachments, satirically termed “Platonic,” are impossible.
                    But, at the same time, common sense must allow that they are rare to find, and
                    not the happiest always, when found; because in some degree they are contrary to
                    nature. Nature’s law undoubtedly is, that our
                    nearest ties should be those of blood—father or brother, sister or mother—until
                    comes the closer one of marriage; and it is always, if not wrong, rather
                    pitiful, when any extraneous bond comes in between to forestall the entire
                    affection that a young man ought to bring to his future wife, a young woman to
                    her husband. I say ought—God knows if they ever do! But, however
                    fate, or folly, or wickedness may interfere to prevent it, not the less true is
                    the undoubted fact, that happy above all must be that marriage where neither
                    husband nor wife ever had a friend so dear as one another.
                After marriage, for either party to have or to desire a dearer or closer friend
                    than the other, is a state of things so inconceivably deplorable—the more
                    erring, the more deplorable—that it will not bear discussion. Such cases there
                    are; but He who in the mystery of marriage
                    prefigured a greater mystery still, alone can judge them, for He only knows
                    their miseries, their temptations, and their wrongs.
                While allowing that a treaty of friendship, “pure and simple,” can exist between
                    a man and woman—under peculiar circumstances, even between a young man and a
                    young woman—it must also be allowed that the experiment is difficult, often
                    dangerous; so dangerous that the matter?of?fact half of the world will not
                    believe in it at all. Parents and guardians very naturally object to a
                    gentleman’s “hanging up his hat” in their houses, or taking sentimental twilight
                    rambles with their fair young daughters. They insist, and justly, that he ought
                    to “Come with a good will, or come not at all;” namely, as a mere
                    acquaintance, a pleasant friend of the family—the whole family, or
                    as a declared suitor. And though this may fall rather hard upon the young man,
                    who has just a hundred a ?year, and, with
                    every disposition towards flirting, a strong horror of matrimony—still it is
                    wisest and best. It may save both parties from frittering away, in a score of
                    false sentimental likings, the love that ought to belong but to one; or, still
                    worse, from committing or suffering what, beginning blamelessly on either side,
                    frequently ends in incurable pain, irremediable wrong.
                Therefore it is, generally speaking, those further on in life, with whom the
                    love?phase is past, or for whom it never existed, who may best use the right,
                    which every pure and independent heart undoubtedly has, of saying: “I take this
                    man or woman for my friend: only a friend—never either more or less—whom as such
                    I mean to keep to the end of my days.” And if more of these, who really know
                    what friendship is, would have the moral courage to assert its dignity against
                    the sneers of society, which is loath to believe in anything higher and purer than itself, I think it would be all the
                    better for the world.
                Women’s friendships with one another are of course free from all these perils,
                    and yet they have their own. The wonderful law of sex—which exists spiritually
                    as well as materially, and often independent of matter altogether; since we see
                    may a man who is much more of a woman, and may a woman who would certainly be
                    the “better half” of any man who cared for her—this law can rarely be withstood
                    with impunity. In most friends whose attachment is specially deep and lasting,
                    we can usually trace a difference—of strong or weak, gay or grave, brilliant or
                    solid—answering in some measure to the difference of sex. Otherwise, a close,
                    all?engrossing friendship between two women would seldom last long; or if it
                    did, by their mutual feminine weaknesses acting and reacting upon one another,
                    would most likely narrow the sympathies and deteriorate the character of
                    both.
                
                Herein lies the distinction—marked and inalienable—between friendship and love.
                    The latter being a natural necessity, requires but the one, whom it
                    absorbs and assimilates till the two diverse, and often opposite characters,
                    become a safe unity—according to divine ordinance, “one flesh.” But friendship,
                    to be friendship at all, must have an independent self?existence, capable of
                    gradations and varieties; for though we can have but one dearest friend, it
                    would argue small power of either appreciating or loving to have only one
                    friend.
                On the other hand, “the hare with many friends” has passed into a proverb. Such a
                    condition is manifestly impossible. The gentleman who, in answer to his
                    servant’s request to be allowed to go and “see a friend,” cries:— 
                        “Fetch me my coat, John! Though the night be raw,
                        I’ll see him too—the first I ever saw:”
                     this cynic, poor wretch! speaks wiser than he is ware of. One simple fact explains and limits the
                    whole question—that those only can find true friends who have in themselves the
                    will and capacity to be such.
                A friend. Not perhaps until later life, until the follies, passions,
                    and selfishnesses of youth have died out, do we—I mean especially we
                    women—recognise the inestimable blessing, the responsibility awful as sweet, of
                    possessing or of being a friend. And though, not willing to run counter to the
                    world’s kindly custom, we may give that solemn title to many who do not exactly
                    own it; though year by year the fierce experience of life, through death,
                    circumstance, or change, narrows the circle of those who do own it; still that
                    man or woman must have been very unfortunate—perhaps, as there can be no result
                    without a cause, worse than unfortunate—who, looking back on thirty, forty, or
                    fifty years of existence, cannot say from the heart, “I thank God for my
                    friends.”
                
                People rarely long keep what they do not deserve. If you find any who, in the
                    decline of life, have few “auld acquaintance,” and those few ”never brought to
                    mind,” but in their stead a lengthy list of friends who are such no more, who
                    have “ill?treated” them, or with whom they have had a “slight coolness;” if they
                    are always finding fault with the friends they now have, and accusing them of
                    ingratitude or neglect; if they tell you these friends’ secrets, and expect you
                    in return to tell them all your friends’ secrets, and your
                    own—beware of these people! They may have many good qualities; you may like them
                    very much, and keep them as most pleasant society; but as for resting your heart
                    upon them, you might as well rest it upon a burning rock or broken reed.
                But if you find people who through all life’s vicissitudes and pangs have
                    preserved a handful of real “friends”—exclusive of you, for it takes years to
                    judge the value of friendship towards
                    ourselves—if on the whole they complain little either of these friends or of the
                    world, which rarely misuses a good man or woman for ever; if they bestow no
                    extravagant devotion on you, nor expect from you one whit more than you freely
                    give; if they never, under any excuse, however personally flattering, talk to
                    you about a third party, as you would shrink form their talking to any third
                    party about you—then, be satisfied; 
                        “Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried;
                        Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel!”
                     Never let them go; suffer no changing tide of fortune to sweep them from
                    you—no later friendships to usurp their place. Be very patient with them; bear
                    their little faults as they must bear yours; make allowance for the countless
                    unintentional slights, neglects, or offences, that we all in the whirl of life
                    must both endure and commit towards those who form not a part, but an adjunct of
                    our existence—remembering, as I said before,
                    that the very element in which true friendship lives, and out of which it cannot
                    live at all, is perfect liberty.
                Friendship once conceived should, like love, in one sense last for ever. That it
                    does not; that in the world’s harsh wear and tear many a very sincere attachment
                    is slowly obliterated, or both parties grow out of it and cast it, like a snake
                    his last year’s skin—though that implies something of the snake?nature, I
                    fear—are facts too mournfully common to be denied. But there is a third fact, as
                    mournfully uncommon, which needs to be remembered likewise: we may
                    lose the friend—the friendship we never can or ought to lose. Actively, it may
                    exist no more; but passively, it is just as binding as the first moment when we
                    pledged it, as we believed, for ever. Its duties, like its delights, may have
                    become a dead?letter; but none of its claims or confidences have we ever
                    afterwards the smallest right to abjure or to break.
                
                And here is one accusation which I must sorrowfully bring against women, as being
                    much more guilty than men. We can keep a secret—ay, against all satire, I
                    protest we can—while the confider remains our friend; but if that tie ceases,
                    pop! out it comes! and in the bitterness of invective, the pang of wounded
                    feeling, or afterwards in mere thoughtlessness, and easy forgetting of what is
                    so easily healed, a thousand things are said and done for which nothing can ever
                    atone. The lost friendship, which, once certain that it is past all revival,
                    ought to be buried as solemnly and silently as a lost love, is cast out into the
                    open street for all the snarling curs of society to gnaw at and mangle, and all
                    the contemptuous misogynists who pass by to point the finger at—“See what your
                    grand ideals all come to!”
                Good women”dear my sisters! be our friendships false or true, wise or foolish,
                    living or dead—let us at least learn to keep them sacred! Men are far better
                    than we in this. Rarely will a man voluntarily
                    or thoughtlessly betray a friend’s confidence, either at the time or afterwards.
                    He will say, even to his own wife: “I can’t tell you thin—I have no right to
                    tell you:” and if she has the least spark of good feeling, she will honour and
                    love him all the dearer for so saying. More rarely still will a man be heard, as
                    women constantly are, speaking ill of some friend who a little while before,
                    while the friendship lasted, was all perfection. What is necessary to be said he
                    will say, but not a syllable more, leaving all the rest in that safe, still
                    atmosphere, where all good fructifies and evil perishes—the atmosphere of
                    silence.
                Ay, above all things, what women need to learn in their friendships is the
                    sanctity of silence—silence in outward demonstration, silence under wrong,
                    silence with regard to the outside world, and often a delicate silence between
                    one another. About the greatest virtue a friend can have, is to be able to hold
                    her tongue; and though this, like all virtues
                    carried to extremity, may grow into a fault, and do great harm, still, it never
                    can do so much harm as that horrible laxity and profligacy of speech which is at
                    the root of half the quarrels, cruelties, and injustices of the world.
                And let every woman, old or young, in commencing a friendship, be careful that it
                    is to the right thing she has given the right name. If so, let her enter upon it
                    thoughtfully, earnestly, advisedly, as upon an engagement made for life, which
                    in truth it is; since, whether its duration be brief or long, it is a tangible
                    reality, and, as such, must have its influence on the total chronicle of
                    existence, wherein no line can ever be quite blotted out. Let her, with the
                    strength and comfort of it, prepare to take the burden; determined, whatever the
                    other may do, to fulfil her own part, and act up to her own duty, absolutely and
                    conscientiously, to the end. For truly, the
                    greatest of all external blessings is it to be able to lean your heart against
                    another heart, faithful, tender, true, and tried, and record with a thankfulness
                    that years deepen instead of diminishing, “I have got a friend!”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                Gossip.
                ONE of the wisest and best among our English ethical writers, the author
                    of Companions of my Solitude, says, àpropos of gossip, that one half of the evil?speaking of the
                    world arises, not from malice prepense, but
                    from mere want of amusement. And I think we may even grant that in the other
                    half, constituted small of mind or selfish in disposition, it is seldom worse
                    than the natural falling back from large abstract interests, which they cannot
                    understand, upon those which they can—alas! only the narrow, commonplace, and
                    personal.
                
                Yet they mean no harm; and often under the delusion that they both mean and do a
                    great deal of good, take a benevolent watch over their fellow?creatures, and so
                    forth. They would not say an untrue word, or do an unkind action—not they! The
                    most barefaced slanderer always tells her story with a good motive, or thinks
                    she does; begins with a harmless “bit of gossip,” just to pass the time away—the
                    time which hangs so heavy! and ends by becoming the most arrant and mischievous
                    tale?bearer under the sun.
                Ex. gratiâ—Let me put on record the decline and
                    fall, voluntarily confessed, of two friends of mine, certainly the last persons
                    likely to take to tittle?tattle; being neither young nor elderly; on the whole,
                    perhaps rather “bright” than stupid; having plenty to do and to think of—too
                    much, indeed, since they came on an enforced holiday out of that vortex in which
                    London whirls her professional classes round and round, year by year, till at last often nothing but a
                    handful of dry bones is cast on shore. They came to lodge at the village of X—,
                    let me call it, as being an “unknown quantity,” which the reader will vainly
                    attempt to find out, since it is just like some hundred other villages—has its
                    church and rector, great house and squire, doctor and lawyer (alas! poor
                    village, I fear its two doctors and two lawyers); also
                    its small select society, where everybody knows everybody—that is, their
                    affairs: for themselves, one half the parish resolutely declines “knowing” the
                    other half—sometimes pretermittently, sometimes permanently. Of course, not a
                    single soul would have ventured to know Bob and Maria—as I shall call the
                    strangers—had they not brought an introduction to one family, under the shelter
                    of whose respectability they meekly placed their own. A very worthy family it
                    was, which showed them all hospitality, asked them to tea continually, and
                    there, in the shadow of the pleasant
                    drawing?room, which overlooked the street, indoctrinated them into the mysteries
                    of X—, something in this wise:
                “Dear me! there’s Mrs. Smith; she has on that identical yellow bonnet which has
                    been so long in Miss Mifflin’s shop?window. Got it cheap, no doubt: Mr. Smith
                    does keep the poor thing so close! Annabella, child, make haste;
                    just tell me whether that isn’t the same young man who called on the Joneses
                    three times last week! Red whiskers and moustaches. One of those horrid
                    officers, no doubt. My dear Miss Maria, I never do like to say a word against my
                    neighbours; but before I would let my Annabella go about like the Jones’s girls
                    ..... Bless my life! there’s that cab at the corner house again—and her husband
                    out! Well, if I ever could have believed it, even of silly, flirty, Mrs. Green!
                    whom people do say old Mr. Green married out of a London hosier’s, where he went
                    in to buy a pair of gloves. What a shocking
                    place London must be ....! But I beg your pardon, my dear ....” And so on, and
                    so on.
                This, slightly varied, was the stock conversation, which seemed amply sufficient
                    to fill the minds and hours of the whole family, and, indeed, of every family at
                    X—.
                Maria and Bob used to go home laughing, and thanking their stars that they
                        did live in that shocking place London. Bob made harmless jokes
                    at the expense of the unconscious household who, 
                        “Pinnacled dim in the intense inane,”
                     could drop down, hawk?like, upon reputations, bonnets, and beaus. Maria
                    gave vent to a majestic but indignant pity; and both hugged themselves in the
                    belief that never, under any circumstances, could they sink to such
                    a dead?level of folly, vacuity, spite.
                Weeks passed—rather slowly, especially when, of
                    autumn evenings, they found themselves minus
                    books, piano, theatre, concerts, society—in fact, in precisely the position of
                    the inhabitants of X——all year round. So, as daylight was less dull than
                    candlelight, they used to rise at unearthly hours; dine—shall I betray the
                    Goths?—at 11:30 A.M., take tea at 4 P.M., and go to bed as soon after dark as
                    they could for shame. At last, from very dulness, Maria got into the habit of
                    sitting at the window and telling Bob what was passing in the street,
                    interspersed with little illustrative anecdotes she had caught up, “just as bits
                    of human nature.” One, the stock scandal of the place, interested them both so
                    much, that they watched for the heroine’s carriage every day for a week; and
                    when at last Maria cried, “There it is!” Bob jumped up with all the eagerness of
                    Annabella herself, and missing the sight, retired grumbling: “What nonsense! I
                    declare you’re getting just as bad a gossip as anybody here!” (
                        N.B.
                        nota bene
                    —the mas? culine mind, in an
                    accusative form, always prefers the second person of the verb.)
                “Well,” observed Maria, “shall I give up telling you any news I happen to
                    hear?”
                “Oh, no! You may tell me what you like. As the man said when his wife beat him—it
                    amuses you, and it doesn’t harm me.”
                Finally—I have it from Maria’s own confession—coming in one afternoon absorbed in
                    cogitations as to what possible motive Mrs. Green could have in telling Mrs.
                    Elizabeth Jones she wished to call on her, Maria; and what on earth would be
                    done if Annabella, whose mamma wouldn’t allow her even to bow to Mrs. Green,
                    should happen to call at the same time—she was quite startled by Bob’s springing
                    up from the sofa to meet her, with an air of great relief.
                “So you’re back at last! Well, who did you see, and what did they say to you? Do
                    sit down, and let’s hear all the gossip going.”
                
                “Gossip!” And meeting one another’s eyes, they both burst into a hearty fit of
                    laughter, declaring they never again would pride themselves on being a bit
                    better than their neighbours.
                Ay, fatal and vile as her progeny may be, “the mother of mischief,” says the
                    proverb, “is no bigger than a midge’s wing.” Nay, as many a vice can be traced
                    back to an exaggerated virtue, this hateful propensity to tittle?tattle springs
                    from the same peculiarity which, rightly guided, constitutes womanhood’s
                    chiefest strength and charm; blesses many a worthless man with a poor, fond,
                    faithful wife, who loves him for nothing that he is or does, but merely because
                    he is himself; forgives to many a scapegrace son or brother a
                    hundred sins, and follows him to the grave or the scaffold, blind to everything
                    except the fact that he is her own. Personal interests, personal attachments,
                    personal prejudices, are, whether we own it or not, the ruling bias of us women:
                    it is better to own it at once, govern,
                    correct, and modify it, than to deny it in name, and betray it in every
                    circumstance of our lives.
                Men, whose habits of thought and action are at once more selfish and less
                    personal than ours, are very seldom given to gossiping. They will take a vast
                    interest in the misgovernment of India, or the ill?cooking of their own dinners;
                    but any topic betwixt these two—such as the mismanagement of their neighbour’s
                    house, or the extravagance of their partner’s wife—is a matter of very minor
                    importance. They “canna be fashed” with trifles that don’t immediately concern
                    themselves. It is the women—always the women—who poke about with undefended
                    farthing candles in the choke?damp passages of this dangerous world; who put
                    their feeble ignorant hands to the Archimedean lever that, slight as it seems,
                    can shake society to its lowest foundations. For, though it irks me to wound
                    with strong language the delicate sensi?
                    bilities of my silver?tongued sisters, I would just remind them of what they may
                    hear, certainly one Sunday in the year, concerning that same dainty little
                    member, which is said to be “a fire, a world of iniquity ... and it is set
                        on fire of hell.”
                Verily, the “Silent Woman”—a lady without a head, who officiates as sign to many
                    a country inn—had need to be so depicted. But it is not “the gift of the gab,”
                    the habit of using a dozen words where one would answer the purpose, which may
                    arise from want of education, nervousness, or surplus but honest energy and
                    earnest feeling—it is not that which does the harm; it is the lamentable fact,
                    that whether from a superabundance of the imaginative faculty, carelessness of
                    phrase, or a readiness to jump at conclusions, and represent facts not as they
                    are but as they appear to the representers, very few women are absolutely and
                    invariably veracious. Men lie wilfully, deliberately, on prin? ciple, as it were; but women quite involuntarily.
                    Nay, they would start with horror from the bare thought of such a thing. They
                    love truth in their hearts, and yet—and yet—they are constantly giving to things
                    a slight colouring cast by their own individuality; twisting facts a little, a
                    very little, according to their tastes, affections, or convenience indicate:
                    never perhaps telling a direct lie, but merely a deformed or prevaricated
                    truth.
                And this makes the fatal danger of gossip. If all people spoke the absolute truth
                    about their neighbours, or held their tongues, which is always a possible
                    alternative, it would not so much matter. At the worst, there would be a few
                    periodical social thunder?storms, and then the air would be clear. But the
                    generality of people do not speak the truth: they speak what they
                    see, or think, or believe, or wish. Few observant characters can have lived long
                    in the world without learning to receive every fact communicated second?hand with
                        reservations—reservations that do not necessarily stamp the
                    communicator as a liar, but merely make allowance for certain inevitable
                    variations, like the variations of the compass, which every circumnavigator must
                    calculate upon as a natural necessity.
                Thus, Miss A., in the weary small?talk of a morning call, not quite knowing what
                    she says, or glad to say anything for the sake of talking, lets drop to Mrs. B.
                    that she heard Mrs. C. say: “She would take care to keep her boys out of the way
                    of the little B.’s”—a very harmless remark, since, when it was uttered, the
                    little B.’s were just recovering from the measles. But Miss A., an absent sort
                    of woman, repeats it three months afterwards, forgetting all about the measles;
                    indeed, she has persuaded herself that it referred to the rudeness of the B.
                    lads, who are her own private terror, and she thinks it may probably do some
                    good to give their over? indulgent mamma a
                    hint on the subject. Mrs. B., too well?bred to reply more than “Indeed!” is yet
                    mortally offended; declines the next dinner?party at the C.’s, and confides her
                    private reason for doing so to Miss D., a good?natured chatterbox, who, with the
                    laudable intention of getting to the bottom of the matter, and reconciling the
                    belligerents, immediately communicates the same. “What have I done?” exclaims
                    the hapless Mrs. C. “I never said any such thing!” “Oh, but Miss A. protests she
                        heard you say it.” Again Mrs. C. warmly denies; which denial
                    goes back directly to Miss A. and Mrs. B., imparting to both them and Miss D. a
                    very unpleasant feeling as to the lady’s veracity. A few days after, thinking it
                    over, she suddenly recollects that she really did say the identical words, with
                    reference solely to the measles; bursts into a hearty fit of laughter, and
                    congratulates herself that it is all right. But not so: the mountain cannot so
                        quickly shrink into its original
                    mole?hill. Mrs. B., whose weak point is her children, receives the explanation
                    with considerable dignity and reserve; is “sorry that Mrs. C. should have
                    troubled herself about such a trifle;” shakes hands, and professes herself quite
                    satisfied. Nevertheless, in her own inmost mind she thinks—and her countenance
                    shows it—“I believe you said it, for all that.” A slight coolness ensues, which
                    everybody notices, discusses, and gives a separate version of; all which
                    versions somehow or other come to the ears of the parties concerned, who,
                    without clearly knowing why, feel vexed and aggrieved each at the other. The end
                    of it all is a total estrangement.
                Is not a little episode like this at the root of nearly all the family feuds,
                    lost friendships, “cut” acquaintanceships, so pitifully rife in the world?
                    Rarely any great matter, a point of principle or a violated pledge, an act of
                    justice or dishonesty; it is almost always some petty action misinterpreted, some idle word repeated—or a
                    succession of both these, gathering and gathering like the shingle on a
                    sea?beach, something fresh being left behind by every day’s tide. Not the men’s
                    doing—the fathers, husbands, or brothers, who have no time to bother themselves
                    about such trifles, and who, if they see fit to quarrel over their two grand
                        causæ belli, religion and politics,
                    generally do it outright, and either abuse one another like pickpockets in
                    newspaper columns, or, in revenge for any moral poaching on one another’s
                    property, take a horsewhip or a pair of pistols, and so end the matter.
                No. It is the women who are at the bottom of it all, who, in the narrowness or
                    blankness of their daily lives, are glad to catch at any straw of
                    interest—especially the unmarried, the idle, the rich, and the childless. As
                    says the author I have before referred to: “People not otherwise ill?natured are
                    pleased with the misfortunes of their neighbours, solely because it gives
                        them something to think about, something
                    to talk about. They imagine how the principal actors and sufferers will bear it;
                    what they will do; how they will look; and so the dull bystander forms a sort of
                    drama for himself.”
                And what a drama! Such a petty plot—such small heroes and heroines—such a
                    harmless villain! When we think of the contemptible nothings that form the daily
                    scandal?dish of most villages, towns, cities, or communities, and then look up
                    at the starry heaven which overshines them all, dropping its rain upon the just
                    and the unjust—or look abroad on the world, of whose wide interests, miseries,
                    joys, duties, they form such an infinitesimal part, one is tempted to blush for
                    one’s species. Strange, that while hundreds and thousands in this Britain have
                    not a crust to eat, Mrs. E. should become the town’s talk for three days,
                    because owing a dinner?party to the F’s, G’s, H’s, and J’s, she clears accounts
                    at a cheaper rate by giving a general
                    tea?party instead. “So mean! and with Mr. E.’s large income, too!” That while
                    millions are living and dying without God in the world, despising Him,
                    forgetting Him, or never having even heard His name, Miss K., a really exemplary
                    woman, should not only refuse, even for charitable purposes, to associate with
                    the L’s, an equally irreproachable family as to morals and benevolence, but
                    should actually forbid her district poor to receive their teaching or their
                    Bibles, because they refuse to add thereto the Church of England Catechism. As
                    to visiting them—“Quite impossible; they are Dissenters, you know.”
                The gossip of opposing religionism—I will not even call it religion, though
                    religion itself is often very far from pure “godliness”—is at once the most
                    virulent and the saddest phase of the disease; and our sex, it must be
                    confessed, are the more liable to it, especially in the provinces. There, the
                    parish curate may at times be seen walking
                    with the Unitarian or Independent minister, if they happen to be well?educated
                    young men of a social turn; even the rector, worthy man! will occasionally have
                    the sense to join with other worthy men of every denomination in matters of
                    local improvement. But oh! the talk that this gives rise to among the female
                    population! till the reverend objects of it, who in their daily duties have
                    usually more to do with women than with men—another involuntary tribute to those
                    virtues which form the bright underside of every fault that can be alleged
                    against us—are often driven to give in to the force of public opinion, to that
                    incessant babble of silvery waters which wears through the rockiest soil.
                The next grand source of gossip—and this, too, curiously indicates how true must
                    be the instinct of womanhood, even in its lowest forms so evidently a corruption
                    from the highest—is love, and with or without that preliminary, ma? trimony. What on earth should we do if we had no
                    matches to make, or mar; no “unfortunate attachments” to shake our heads over;
                    no flirtations to speculate about and comment upon with knowing smiles; no
                    engagements “on” or “off” to speak our minds about, nosing out every little
                    circumstance, and ferreting out our game to their very hole, as if all their
                    affairs, their hopes, trials, faults, or wrongs, were being transacted for our
                    own private and peculiar entertainment! Of all forms of gossip—I speak of mere
                    gossip, as distinguished from the carrion?crow and dunghill?fly system of
                    scandal?mongering—this tittle?tattle about love?affairs is the most general, the
                    most odious, and the most dangerous.
                Every one of us must have known within our own experience many an instance of
                    dawning loves checked, unhappy loves made cruelly public, happy loves
                    embittered, warm, honest loves turned cold, by this horrible system of gossiping
                    about young or unmarried people—“evening” to one another folk who have not the slightest mutual inclination, or if they had,
                    such an idea put into their heads would effectually smother it; setting down
                    every harmless free liking as “a case,” or “a flirtation;” and if anything
                    “serious” does turn up, pouncing on it, hunting it down, and never letting it go
                    till dismembered and ground to the bone. Should it ever come to a marriage—and
                    the wonder is, considering all these things, that any love?affair ever does come
                    to that climax at all, or that any honest?hearted, delicate?minded young people,
                    ever have the courage to indulge the world by an open attachment or
                    engagement—heavens and earth! how it is talked about! How one learns every
                    single item of what “he” said and “she” said, and what all the relations said,
                    and how it came about, and how it never would have come about at all but for
                    So?and?so, and what they have to live upon, and how capable or incapable they
                    are of living upon it, and how very much better both parties would have done
                        if they had only each left the choosing of
                    the other to about four?and?twenty anxious friends, all of which were quite
                    certain the affianced pair never would suit one another, but would have exactly
                    suited somebody else, &c. &c., ad
                        libitum and ad infinitum.
                Many women, otherwise kindly and generous, have in this matter no more
                    consideration towards their own sex or the other, no more sense of the sanctity
                    and silence due to the relation between them, than if the divinely instituted
                    bond of marriage were no higher or purer than the natural instincts of the
                    beasts that perish. It is most sad, nay, it is sickening, to see the way in
                    which, from the age of fourteen upwards, a young woman, on this one subject of
                    her possible or probable matrimonial arrangements, is quizzed, talked over,
                    commented upon, advised, condoled with, lectured, interrogated—until, if she has
                    happily never had cause to blush for herself, not a week passes that she does
                    not blush for her own sex, out of utter
                    contempt, disgust, and indignation.
                Surely all right?minded women ought to set their faces resolutely against this
                    desecration of feelings, to maintain the sanctity of which is the only
                    preservative of our influence—that is, our rightful and holy influence, over
                    men. Not that, after the school of Mesdames Barbauld, Hannah More, and other
                    excellent but exceedingly prosy personages, love should be exorcised out of
                    young women’s lives and conversations—query, if possible?—but let
                    it be treated of delicately, earnestly, rationally, as a matter which, if they
                    have any business with it at all, is undoubtedly the most serious of their
                    lives. There can be—there ought to be—no medium course; a love?affair is either
                    sober earnest or contemptible folly, if not wickedness: to gossip about it is,
                    in the first instance, intrusive, unkind, or dangerous; in the second, simply
                    silly. Practical people may choose between the two alternatives.
                
                Gossip, public, private, social—to fight against it either by word or pen seems,
                    after all, like fighting with shadows. Everybody laughs at it, protests against
                    it, blames and despises it; yet everybody does it, or at least encourages others
                    in it: quite innocently, unconsciously, in such a small, harmless fashion—yet we
                    do it. We must talk about something, and it is not all of us who can find a
                    rational topic of conversation, or discuss it when found. Many, too, who in
                    their hearts hate the very thought of tattle and tale?bearing, are shy of
                    lifting up their voices against it, lest they should be ridiculed for Quixotism,
                    or thought to set themselves up as more virtuous than their neighbours. Others,
                    like our lamented friends, Maria and Bob, from mere idleness and indifference,
                    long kept hovering over the unclean stream, at last drop into it and are drifted
                    away by it. Where does it land the? Ay, where?
                If I, or any one, were to unfold on this subject only our own experience and observation—not a tittle more—what a volume it
                    would make!
                Families set by the ears, parents against children, brothers against brothers—not
                    to mention brothers and sisters?in?law, who seem generally to assume, with the
                    legal title, the legal right of interminably squabbling. Friendships sundered,
                    betrothals broken, marriages annulled—in the spirit, at least, while in the
                    letter kept outwardly, to be a daily torment, temptation, and despair.
                    Acquaintances that would otherwise have maintained a safe and not unkindly
                    indifference, forced into absolute dislike—originating how they know not; but
                    there it is. Old companions, that would have borne each other’s little foibles,
                    have forgiven and forgotten little annoyances, and kept up an honest affection
                    till death, driven at last into open rupture, or frozen into a coldness more
                    hopeless still, which no after?warmth will ever have power to thaw.
                Truly, from the smallest Little Peddlington
                    that carries on, year by year, its bloodless wars, its harmless scandals, its
                    daily chronicle of interminable nothings, to the great metropolitan world,
                    fashionable, intellectual, noble, or royal, the blight and curse of civilised
                    life is gossip.
                How is it to be removed? How are scores of well?meaning women, who in their
                    hearts really like and respect one another—who, did trouble come to any one of
                    them, would be ready with countless mutual kindnesses, small and great, and
                    among whom the sudden advent of death would subdue every idle tongue to honest
                    praise, and silence, at once and for ever, every bitter word against the
                    neighbour departed—how are they to be taught to be every day as generous,
                    considerate, liberal?minded—in short, womanly, as they would assuredly be in any
                    exceptionable day of adversity? How are they to be made to feel the littleness,
                    the ineffably pitiful littleness, of raking up and criticising every slight peculiarity of manner, habits, temper,
                    character, word, action, motive—household, children, servants, living,
                    furniture, and dress, thus constituting themselves the amateur rag?pickers,
                        chiffonnières—I was going to say,
                    scavengers, but they do not leave the streets clean—of all the
                    blind alleys and foul by?ways of society; while the whole world lies free and
                    open before them, to do their work and choose their innocent pleasure
                    therein—this busy, bright, beautiful world?
                Such a revolution is, I doubt, quite hopeless on this side Paradise. But every
                    woman has it in her power personally to withstand the spread of this great
                    plague of tongues, since it lies within her own volition what she will do with
                    her own. 
                        “All the king’s horses and all the king’s men”
                     cannot make us either use or bridle that little member. It is our
                    never?failing weapon, double? edged, delicate,
                    bright, keen; a weapon not necessarily either lethal or vile, but taking its
                    character solely from the manner in which we use it.
                First, let every one of us cultivate, in every word that issues from our mouth,
                    absolute truth. I say cultivate, because to very few people—as may be noticed of
                    most young children—does truth, this rigid, literal veracity, come by nature. To
                    many, even who love it and prize it dearly in others, it comes only after the
                    self?control, watchfulness, and bitter experience of years. Let no one conscious
                    of needing this care be afraid to begin it from the very beginning; or in her
                    daily life and conversation fear to confess: “Stay, I said a little more than I
                    meant”—“I think I was not quite correct about such a thing”—“Thus it was; at
                    least thus it seemed to me personally,” &c. &c. Even in the
                    simplest, most everyday statements, we cannot be too guarded or too exact. The
                    “hundred cats” that the little lad saw “fighting on our back?wall,” and which
                    afterwards dwindled down to “our cat and
                    another,” is a case in point, not near so foolish as it seems.
                “Believe only half of what you see, and nothing that you hear,” is a cynical
                    saying, and yet less bitter than at first appears. It does not argue that human
                    nature is false, but simply that it is human nature. How can any fallible human
                    being with two eyes, two ears, one judgment, and one brain—all more or less
                    limited in their apprehensions of things external, and biased by a thousand
                    internal impressions, purely individual—how can we possibly decide on even the
                    plainest actions of another, to say nothing of the words, which may have gone
                    through half?a?dozen different translations and modifications, or the motives,
                    which can only be known to the Omniscient Himself?
                In His name, therefore, let us “judge not, that we be not judged.” Let us be
                    “quick to hear, slow to speak;” slowest of all to speak any evil, or to listen
                    to it, about anybody. The good we need be less
                    careful over; we are not likely ever to hear too much of that.
                “But,” say some—very excellent people, too—“are we never to open our
                    mouths?—never to mention the ill things we see or hear; never to stand up for
                    the right, by proclaiming, or by warning and testifying against the wrong?”
                Against wrong—in the abstract, yes: but against individuals—doubtful. All the
                    gossip in the world, or the dread of it, will never turn one domestic tyrant
                    into a decent husband or father; one light woman into a matron leal and wise. Do
                    your neighbour good by all means in your power, moral as well as physical—by
                    kindness, by patience, by unflinching resistance against every outward evil—by
                    the silent preaching of your own contrary life. But if the only good you can do
                    him is by talking at him, or about him—nay, even to him, if it be
                    in a self?satisfied, super?virtuous style—such as I earnestly hope the present
                    writer is not doing— you had much better leave
                    him alone. If he be foolish, soon or late he will reap the fruit of his folly;
                    if wicked, be sure his sin will find him out. If he has wronged you, you will
                    neither lessen the wrong nor increase his repentance by parading it. And
                    if—since there are two sides to every subject, and it takes two to make a
                    quarrel—you have wronged him, surely you will not right him or yourself by
                    abusing him. In Heaven’s name, let him alone.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                Women of the World.
                THE world! It is a word capable of as diverse interpretations or
                    misinterpretations as the thing itself—a thing by various people supposed to
                    belong to heaven, man, or the devil, or alternatively to all three. But this is
                    not the place to argue the pros and cons of that doctrinal theology which views
                    as totally evil the same world which its Creator pronounced to be “very good,”
                    the same world in and for which its Redeemer lived as well as died; nor, taking
                    it at its present worst, a sinful, miserable, mysterious, yet neither wholly
                    comfortless, hopeless, nor godless world, shall I refer further to that strange
                        Manichæanism which believes that anything
                    earth possesses of good can have sprung from any other source than the All?good,
                    that any happiness in it could exist for a moment, unless derived from Infinite
                    Perfection.
                “A woman of the world”—“Quite a woman of the world”—“A mere woman of the
                    world”—with how many modifications of tone and emphasis do we hear the phrase;
                    which seems inherently to imply a contradiction. Nature herself has apparently
                    decided for women, physically as well as mentally, that their natural destiny
                    should be not of the world. In the earlier ages of Judaism and
                    Islamism, nobody ever seems to have ventured a doubt of this. Christianity alone
                    raised the woman to her rightful and original place, as man’s one help?meet,
                    bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh, his equal in all points of vital
                    moment, yet made suited to him by an harmonious something which is less
                    inferiority than difference. And this difference will for ever exist. Volumes written on female progress; speeches
                    interminable, delivered from the public rostrum in female treble, which from
                    that very publicity and bravado would convert the most obvious “rights” into
                    something very like a wrong; biographies numberless of great women—aye, and
                    good—who, stepping out of their natural sphere, have done service in courts,
                    camps, or diplomatic bureaus: all these exceptional cases will never set aside
                    the universal law, that woman’s proper place is home. Not merely 
                        “To suckle fools and chronicle, small?beer,“
                     —Shakspeare, who knew us well, would never have made any but an
                        Iago say so—but to go hand?in?hand with man on their distinct
                    yet parallel roads, to be within?doors what he has to be in the world
                    without?sole influence and authority in the limited monarchy of home.
                Thus, to be a “woman of the world,” though not
                    essentially a criminal accusation, implies a state of being not natural, and
                    therefore not happy. Without any sentimental heroics against the hollowness of
                    such an existence, and putting aside the religious view of it altogether, I
                    believe most people will admit that no woman living entirely in and for the
                    world ever was, ever could be, a happy woman; that is, according to the
                    definition of happiness, which supposes it to consist in having our highest
                    faculties most highly developed, and in use to their fullest extent. Any other
                    sort of happiness, either dependent on externally favourable circumstances, or
                    resting on safe negations of ill, we must be considered to possess in common
                    with the oyster; indeed, that easy?tempered and steadfast mollusk, if not “in
                    love,” probably has it in much greater perfection than we.
                Starting with the proposition that a woman of the world is not a happy woman;
                    that if she had been, most likely she never would have become what she is—I do not think it necessary to nail her
                    up, poor painted jay, as a “shocking example” over Society’s barn?door, around
                    which strut and crow a great many fowls quite as mean and not half so
                    attractive. For she is very charming in her way—that is, the principal and best
                    type of her class; she wears à merveille that
                    beautiful mask said to be “the homage paid by vice to virtue.” And since the
                    successful imitation of an article argues a certain acquaintance with the
                    original, she may once upon a time have actually believed in many of those
                    things which she now so cleverly impersonates—virtue, heroism, truth, love,
                    friendship, honour, and fidelity. She is like certain stamped?out bronze
                    ornaments, an admirable imitation of real womanhood—till you walk round her to
                    the other side.
                The woman of the world is rarely a young woman. It stands to reason, she could
                    not be. To young people, the world is always a paradise—a fool’s paradise,
                    devoutly believed in: it is not till they have
                    found out its shams that they are able to assume them. By that time, however,
                    they have ceased to be fools: it takes a certain amount of undoubted cleverness
                    to make any success, or take any rule in the world.
                By the world, I do not mean the aristocratic Vanity?fair—let those preach of it
                    who move up and down or keep stalls therein—but the world of the middle classes;
                    the “society” into which drift the homeless, thoughtless, ambitious,
                    pleasure?loving among them; those who have no purpose in life except to get
                    through it somehow, and those who never had any interest in it except their own
                    beloved selves.
                A woman of the sort I write of may in one sense be placed at the lowest deep of
                    womanhood, because her centre of existence is undoubtedly herself. You many
                    trace this before you have been introduced to her five minutes: in the sweet
                    manner which so well simulates a universal benevolence, being exactly the same
                    to everybody —namely, everybody worth knowing;
                    in the air of interest with which she asks a dozen polite or kindly questions,
                    of which she never waits for the answer; in the instinctive consciousness you
                    have that all the while she is talking agreeably to you, or flatteringly
                    listening to your talented conversation, her attention is on the qui vive after everybody and every thing throughout
                    the room—that is every thing which concerns herself. As for yourself, from the
                    moment you have passed out of her sight, or ceased to minister to her amusement
                    or convenience, you may be quite certain you will have as completely slipped out
                    of her memory as if you had vanished into another sphere. Her own sphere cannot
                    contain you; for though it seems so large, it has no real existence: it is
                    merely a reflection of so much of the outer world as can be received into the
                    one small drop of not over?clear water, which constitutes this woman’s soul.
                Yet waste not your wrath upon her—she is as
                    much to be pitied as blamed. Do not grow savage at hearing her, in that
                    softly?pitched voice of hers, talk sentiment by the yard, while you know she
                    snubs horribly in private every unlucky relative she has; whose only hours of
                    quiet are when they joyfully deck her and send her out to adorn society. Do not
                    laugh when she criticises pictures, and goes into raptures over books, which you
                    are morally certain she has never either seen or read; or if she had, from the
                    very character of her mind, could no more understand them than your cat can
                    appreciate Shakspeare. Contemn her not, for her state might not have been always
                    thus; you know not the causes which produced it; and—stay till you see her
                    end.
                There is a class of worldly women which, to my mind, is much worse than this;
                    because their shams are less cleverly sustained, and their ideal of good (for
                    every human being must have one—the conqueror his crown, and the
                    sot his gin? bottle) is far lower and more
                    contemptible. The brilliant woman of society has usually her pet philanthropies,
                    her literary, learned, or political penchants, in which the good she thirsts
                    after, though unreal, is the imitation of a vital reality; and as such is often,
                    in some degree, useful to others. But this pseudo?woman of the world has no
                    ideal beyond fine dresses, houses, carriages, acquaintances; and even these she
                    does not value for their own sakes, only because they are superior to her
                    neighbour’s.
                You will find her chiefly among the half?educated noveaux
                        riches of the professional classes, vainly striving to attain to
                    their level—the highest point visible on her horizon. And this is no happy
                    altitude of learning, or intelligence, or refinement; but merely a certain
                    “position”—a place at a dinner?party, or a house in a square.
                While the first kind of woman always has a degree of sway in society, this one is
                        society’s most prostrate slave. She does
                    not furnish her house, choose her servants, eat her food, pay her visits, or
                    even put the gown on her back and the bonnet on her head, save by rule and
                    precedent. She will worry herself and you about the veriest trifles of
                        convenance—such as whether it is most genteel to leave one card
                    with the corner turned down, or to expend a separate card upon each member of
                    the family. To find herself at a full?dress soirée in demi?toilette would make
                    this poor lady miserable for a month; and if by any chance you omitted paying
                    her the proper visit of inquiry after an entertainment, she would consider you
                    meant a personal insult, and, if she dared—only she seldom ventures on any
                    decisive proceedings—would cut your acquaintance immediately.
                The celebrated Mrs. Grundy keeps her in a state of mortal servitude. Even in
                    London, which to a lady of medium age, established character, and decent
                    behaviour, is the most independent place in
                    the world; where, as I once heard said: “My dear, be assured you are not of the
                    least importance to anybody—may go anywhere, dress anyhow, and, in short, do
                    anything you like except stand on your head”—even here she is for ever pursued
                    by a host of vague adjectives, “proper,” “correct,” “genteel,” which hunt her to
                    death like a pack of rabid hounds.
                True, the world, like its master, is by no means so black as it is sometimes
                    painted: it often has a foundation of good sense and right feeling under its
                    most ridiculous and wearisome forms; but this woman sees only the forms, among
                    which she blunders like one of those quack?artists who pretend to draw the human
                    figure without the smallest knowledge of anatomy. Utterly ignorant of the
                    framework on which society moves, she is perpetually straining at gnats and
                    swallowing camels, both in manners and morals. To her, laborious politeness
                        stands in the stead of kindliness; show,
                    of hospitality; etiquette, of decorum. Les
                        bienséances, which are only valuable as being the index and
                    offering of a gentle, generous, and benevolent heart, are to this unfortunate
                    woman the brazen altar upon which she immolates her own comfort and that of
                    everybody connected with her.
                How often do we hear the phrases,—“What will the world say?”—“Perhaps; but, then,
                    we live in the world.”—“A good soul enough, but totally ignorant of the
                    world.”—It is worth while pausing a moment to consider of what this “world”
                    really consists, that women seem at once so eagerly to run after, and to be so
                    terribly afraid of.
                Not the moral world, which judges their sins—with, alas, how short?sighted and
                    unevenly balanced a judgment, often!—but the perpetually changing world of
                    custom, which regulates their clothes, furniture, houses, manner of living,
                    sayings, doings, and sufferings. Take it to pieces, and what is it? Nothing but a floating atmosphere of
                    common?place people surrounding certain congeries of people a little less
                    ordinary, the nucleus of which is generally one person decidedly extra?ordinary,
                    who, by force of will, position, intellect, or character, or by some
                    unquestionable magnitude of virtue or vice, stands out distinctly from the
                    average multitude, and rules it according to his or her individual choice. All
                    the rest are, as I said, a mere atmosphere of nobodies; which atmosphere can be
                    cloven any day—one sees it done continually—by a single flesh?and?blood arm: yet
                    in it the woman of the world allows herself to sit and suffocate; dare not dress
                    comfortably, act and speak straightforwardly, live naturally, or sometimes even
                    honestly. For will she not rather run in debt for a bonnet, than wear her old
                    one a year behind the mode? give a ball and
                    stint the family dinner for a month after? take a large house, and furnish
                    handsome reception?rooms, while her household
                    huddle together anyhow in untidy attic bed?chambers, and her servants swelter on
                    shake?downs beside the kitchen fire? She prefers this a hundred times to stating
                    plainly, by word or manner: “My income is so much a?year—I don’t care who knows
                    it—it will not allow me to live beyond a certain rate, it will not keep
                    comfortably both my family and acquaintance; therefore, excuse my preferring the
                    comfort of my family to the entertainment of my acquaintance. And, Society, if
                    you choose to look in upon us, you must just take us as we are, without any
                    pretence of any kind; or you may shut the door, and—good by!”
                And Society, in the aggregate, is no fool. It is astonishing what an amount of
                    “eccentricity” it will stand from anybody who takes the bull by the horns, too
                    fearless or too indifferent to think of consequences. How respectfully it will
                    follow a clever woman who is superior to the weakness of washing her hands or
                    combing her hair pro? perly, whose milliner
                    and dress?maker must evidently have lived in the last century, and who, in her
                    manners and conversation, often breaks through every rule of even the commonest
                    civility! How the same thoroughly respectable set, which would be shocked to let
                    its young daughters take a morning shopping in Regent Street unprotected by a
                    tall footman, will carry them at night to a soirée given by a Lady Somebody, of
                    rather more doubtful reputation, till some rich marriage, which in its utter
                    lovelessness and hypocrisy may have been, in the sight of Heaven, the foulest of
                    all her sins, in the sight of man obliterated every one of them at once!
                Yet this “world” which, when we come to look at it, seems nothing—less than
                    nothing—a chimera that no honest heart need quail at for a moment?is at once the
                    idol and the bête noire of a large portion of
                    women?kind during their whole existence. Ay, from the day when baby’s first
                    wardrobe must be of the most extravagant
                    description, costing in lace, braiding, and embroidery almost as much as mamma’s
                    marriage outfit—which was a deal too fine for her station—when all the while
                    unfortunate baby would be quite as pretty and twice as comfortable in plain
                    muslin and lawn; down to the last day of our subjugation to fashion, when we
                    must needs be carried to our permanent repose under a proper amount of feathers,
                    and followed by a customary number of mourning coaches—after being coaxed to
                    it—useless luxury! by a satin?lined coffin, stuffed pillow, and ornamented
                    shroud.
                In the intermediate stage, marriage, we are worse off still, because the world’s
                    iron hand is upon us at a time and under circumstances when we can most keenly
                    feel its grinding weight.
                “Do you think,” said a young lady once to me, “that Henry and I ought to marry
                    upon less than four hundred a?year?”
                “No certainly, my dear; because you marry for so many people’s benefit besides
                    your own. How, for instance, could your
                    acquaintance bear to see moreen curtains, instead of blue?and?silver damask you
                    were talking of! And how could you give those charming little dinner?parties
                    which, you say, are indispensable to one in your position, without three
                    servants, or a boy in buttons as well? Nay, if you went into society at all, of
                    the kind you now keep, a fifth of Henry’s annual income would melt away in
                    dresses, bouquets, and white kid?gloves. No, my dear girl, I can by no means
                    advise you to marry upon less than four hundred a?year.”
                My young friend looked up, a little doubtful if I were in jest or earnest; and
                    Mr. Henry gave vent to an impatient sigh. I thought—“Poor things!” for they were
                    honestly in love, and there was no earthly reason why they should not marry. How
                    many hundreds more are thus wasting the best years of their life, the best hopes
                    of their youth, love, home, usefulness, energy—and God only knows how much
                    besides—and for what? Evening?parties,
                    dresses, and gloves, a fine house, and blue?and?silver curtains!
                Yet a woman of the world would have said that this couple were quite right; that
                    if they had married and lived afterwards with the careful prudence that alone
                    would have been possible to a young man of Mr. Henry’s independent character,
                    they must infallibly have gone down in society, have dropped out of their
                    natural circle, to begin life—as their parents did,—as most middle?class parents
                    have done,—narrowly and humbly. Though without much fear of positive starvation,
                    they must have given up many luxuries, have had to learn and practise many
                    domestic economies which probably never had come into the head of either the
                    lady or the gentleman; and yet love might have taught them, as it teaches the
                    most ignorant. They would undoubtedly have had to live, for the next few years
                    at least, not for society at large, but for their own two selves and their
                    immediate connexions.
                
                And very likely Henry would have done it, for a young fellow in love will do
                    mightily heroic things; some, especially hard?worked professional men, being
                    weak enough to believe that a snug fire?side, where a cheerful?faced little wife
                    has warmed his slippers and sits pouring out his tea—even if obliged to make
                    sundry intermediate rushes up?stairs to quiet something which obstinately
                    refuses to go to sleep—is preferable to a handsome solitary club?dinner, a
                    wine?and?cigar party, or a ball, at which he revels till 3 A.M. in the smiles of
                    a tarlatane angel, whom he may ask to waltz ad
                        libitum, but dare not for his life—or his honour, which is
                    dearer—ask any other question, until he has got grey hairs and a thousand
                    a?year. Dares not, for the worldly fathers, the still more worldly mothers, nay,
                    the young daughters themselves, whose hearts, under their innocent muslins, are
                    slowly hardening into those of premature women of the world, would stand aghast
                    at the idea; “Love in a cottage”— such an
                    out?of?date, absurdly romantic, preposterous thing! Which it decidedly is—for
                    people who bring to the said cottage the expectations and necessities of Hyde
                    Park Gardens or Belgrave Square.
                Yet, on the other hand, it is hardly possible to over?calculate the evils
                    accruing to individuals and to society in general from this custom, gradually
                    increasing, of late and ultra?prudent marriages. Parents bring up their
                    daughters in luxurious homes, expecting and exacting that the home to which they
                    transfer them should be of almost equal ease; forgetting how next to impossible
                    it is for such a home to be offered by any young man of the present generation,
                    who has to work his way like his father before him. Daughters, accustomed to a
                    life of ease and laziness, are early taught to check every tendency towards “a
                    romantic attachment”—the insane folly of loving a man for what he is, rather
                    than for what he has got; of being content to fight the worldly battle
                        hand?in? hand—with a hand that is worth
                    clasping, rather than settle down in comfortable sloth, protected and provided
                    for in all external things. Young men ... But words fail to trace the lot of
                    enforced bachelorhood, hardest when its hardship ceases to be consciously felt.
                    An unmarried woman, if a good woman, can always make herself happy; find
                    innumerable duties, interests, amusements; live a pure, cheerful, and useful
                    life. So can some men—but very, very few.
                Scarcely any sight is more pitiable than a young man who has drifted on to past
                    thirty, without home or near kindred; with just income enough to keep him
                    respectably in the position which he supposes himself bound to maintain, and to
                    supply him with the various small luxuries—such as thirty guineas per annum in
                    cigars, &c.—which have become habitual to him. Like his fellow?mortals,
                    he is liable enough to the unlucky weakness of falling in love, now and then;
                    but he somehow manages to extinguish the passion before it gets fairly alight; knowing he can no more venture to ask a girl in
                    his own sphere to marry him, or be engaged to him, than he can coax the planet
                    Venus out of her golden west into the dirty, gloomy, two?pair?back where his
                    laundress cheats him, and his landlady abuses him: whence, perhaps, he
                    occasionally emerges gloriously, all studs and white necktie—to assist at some
                    young beauty’s wedding, where he feels in his heart he might once have been the
                    happy bridegroom—if from his silence she had not been driven to go desperately
                    and sell herself to the old fool opposite, and is fast becoming, nay, is already
                    become, a fool’s clever mate—a mere woman of the world. And he—what a noble
                    ideal he has gained of our sex, from this and other similar experiences! with
                    what truth of emotion will he repeat, as he gives the toast of “The bridemaids,”
                    the hackneyed quotation about pain and sorrow wringing the brow, and smile
                    half?adoringly, half?pathetically, at the
                    “ministering angels” who titter around him. They, charming innocents! will
                    doubtless go home avouching “What a delightful person is Mr. So?and?so. I wonder
                    he never gets married.” While Mr. So?and?so also goes home, sardonically minded,
                    to his dull lodgings, his book and his cigar, or—he best knows where. And in the
                    slow process of inevitable deterioration, by forty he learns to think matrimony
                    a decided humbug; and hugs himself in the conclusion that a virtuous,
                    high?minded, and disinterested woman, if existing at all, exists as a mere
                        lusus naturæ—not to be met with by mortal
                    man now?a?days. Relieving his feeling with a grunt—half?sigh, half?sneer—he
                    dresses and goes to the opera—or the ballet,
                    at all events—or settles himself on the sofa to a French novel, and ends by
                    firmly believing us women to be—what we are painted there!
                Good God!—the exclamation is too solemn to be 
                        profane
                        probe fane
                    —if this state of things be true, and it is true, and I have barely touched the outer surface
                    of its unfathomably horrible truth—what will the next generation come to? What
                    will they be—those unborn millions who are to grow up into our men and our
                    women? The possible result, even in a practical, to say nothing of a moral
                    light, is awful to think upon.
                Can it not be averted? Can we not—since, while the power of the world is with
                    men, the influence lies with women—can we not bring up our girls more usefully
                    and less showily—less dependent on luxury and wealth? Can we not teach them from
                    babyhood that to labour is a higher thing than merely to enjoy; that even
                    enjoyment itself is never so sweet as when it has been earned? Can we not put
                    into their minds, whatever be their station, principles of truth, simplicity of
                    taste, helpfulness, hatred of waste; and, these being firmly rooted, trust to
                    their blossoming up in whatever destiny the young maiden may be called to? We
                    should not then have to witness the terrors
                    that beset dying beds when a family of girls will be left unprovided for; nor
                    the angry shame when some thoughtless young pair commit matrimony, and rush
                    ignorantly into debt, poverty, and disgrace, from which—facilis descensus Averni—all the efforts of too?late
                    compassionate relatives can never altogether raise them.
                Nevertheless—and I risk this declaration without fear of its causing a general
                    rush to the register?offices, or the publication, at every out?of?the?way church
                    in the three kingdoms, of surreptitious bans between all the under?aged
                    simpletons who choose to fly in the face of Providence by marrying upon 
                        “Nothing a week, and that uncertain—very!”
                     —nevertheless, taking life as a whole, believing that it consists not in
                    what we have, but in our power of enjoying the same; that there are in it things
                    nobler and dearer than ease, plenty, or
                    freedom from care—nay, even than existence itself; surely it is not Quixotism,
                    but common?sense and Christianity, to protest that love is better than outside
                    show, labour than indolence, virtue than mere respectability. Truly, in this
                    present day—putting aside those cases where duty and justice have claims higher
                    than either love or happiness—there is many an instance of cowardly selfishness,
                    weakness, and falsehood, committed by young people of both sexes, under the
                    names of prudence, honourable feeling, or obedience to parents; there is many an
                    act, petted under the name of a virtue, which is a much blacker crime before
                    God, and of far more fatal result to society at large, than the worst of these
                    so?called improvident marriages.
                Strange how much people will sacrifice—ay, even women will—to this Moloch of the
                    world! It reminds me of an infantile worship, which a certain friend of mine
                    confessed to have instituted, and officiated as high?priestess of, at the age of three?and?a?half. She used to collect
                    from her own store, and levy from unwilling co?idolaters, all sorts of childish
                    dainties, together with turnips, apple?pairings, &c., and lay them in a
                    remote corner of the farmyard, as an offering to a mysterious invisible being
                    called Dor, who came in the night and feasted thereon—at least, the sacrifice
                    was always gone the next morning. A pious relative, finding her out, stopped
                    with great horror the proceedings of this earnest little heathen; but for years
                    after, nothing would have persuaded my deluded young friend that the awful Dor
                    was, in fact, only a chance?wind, a hen and her chickens, or a hungry old sow.
                    So, often, it is not till half a lifetime has been expended on this thankless
                    service, that we come to find out—if we ever do find out—that the invisible
                    Daimon who swallows up the best of our good things—time, ease, wealth, money,
                    comfort, peace, and well if no more than these—is, after all, a combination of the merest accidents, or perhaps one
                    individual brute beast.
                Yet, there is fascination, hard to account for, but idle to gainsay, in this
                    miserable Eleusinia, this blind worship of a self?invented god. Who does not
                    know the story of the wise old nanny?goat, which painted to her dear daughter
                    that horrible wild beast, the leopard, giving him every conceivable ugliness, a
                    ghastly wide mouth and fiery eyes; so that when the fair Miss Kid saw a
                    beautiful animal with shiny spotted skin and graceful motions, sporting
                    innocently after his own tail in the forest shadow, how could she ever identify
                    him with the portrait her mother drew? What could she do, but approach, and
                    wonder, and admire, then fall right into his clutches, and have her poor little
                    bones crunched between his dazzling jaws? Would not many a mother do well in
                    laying to heart this old fable?
                Yes, the world is doubtless very pleasant in its way. Delicious, almost to deliriousness, is a young girl’s first step into
                    the enchanted circle called “good society;” to feel herself in her best attire
                    and best looks, charming and charmed, for the behoof of the entire company; or,
                    as it usually soon comes to, poor little fool! for the sake of one particular
                    person therein. And for a long time after, though the first magic of the cup is
                    gone, though it intoxicates rather than exhilarates, it is by no means the
                    poison?cup that frigid moralists would make us believe. It has a little of the
                    narcotic; and the young woman begins to take it as such, feeling rather ashamed
                    of herself for so doing; and, like all opiates, it leaves a slight bitterness in
                    the mouth. But what of that?
                Now and then our young lady wonders, during “slow” evening?parties and prosy
                    morning?calls, whether her whistle is worth quite as much as she has daily to
                    pay for it—whether the agreeable circles in which she moves are not, if they would but avow it, for the chief part of the
                    time that they spend together, a very great bore to themselves and to one
                    another—whether, after all, one handful of the salt of common?sense would not
                    purify society as well as a bushel of idle ceremonies, and one ounce of kind
                    feeling, tact, and thoughtfulness for others, be worth a cart?load of ponderous
                    etiquette. And perhaps she sets to work on this grand, new, and original system
                    of hers, which every young heart thinks it is the first to discover and
                    practise— 
                        “Like one who tries in little boat
                        To tug to him the ship afloat.”
                     Most likely she fails—fails totally, angrily, miserably; only gets herself
                    misjudged and laughed at, and resolves no more to remodel the world—which may be
                    a wise determination; or settles into stolid indifference, and believes that,
                    after all, right and wrong do not much matter; it will all be the same a hundred
                        years hence: so drops slowly into the
                    current, and is drifted with the rest, along, along—whither?
                Or else, having just penetration enough left to distinguish a truth from its
                        eidolon, its doppelgänger, which almost always walks alongside of it, and
                    mimics it, in this strange world of ours, she gradually perceives the sense,
                    beauty, and fitness which may be traced under the most exaggerated of forms and
                    customs. She sees also that these 
                        “Nice customs courtesy to great kings,”
                     as saith Henry of England when he kisses his French Katherine; and that any
                    woman is unworthy of the just empery of her sex when she gives up to either
                    fashion or ceremony her common?sense, comfort, or good taste: when, for
                    instance, she condescends to make of herself a silk?draped walking butter?tub,
                    or a female 
                        “Whose head
                        Does grow beneath her shoulders;”
                     when she suffers herself to waste hour
                    after hour, day after day, year after year, in the company of frivolous folk,
                    whom she can do no good to, and receive no good from, and whom, she is fully
                    aware, if she dropped out of their smiling circle to?morrow, to die in a ditch,
                    in the hospital close by, or were even to create a temporary sensation by
                    jumping from Waterloo Bridge, would merely remark: “Dear me, how shocking! Who
                    would have thought it?—Well, as I was saying ....”
                No doubt, this conviction, when it fairly breaks upon her, strikes her poor
                    weakened eyes with a painful glare, which throws into harder outline than is
                    natural the cruel angles of this would?be palace—that for the time seems to her
                    little better than a grim dungeon, from which she only seeks to escape— 
                        “Anywhere, anywhere, out of the world.”
                    
                This is the crisis of her life. She either ends by a tacit, hopeless,
                    acquiescence in what she both despises and
                    disbelieves, or herself sinking to their level, accepts them as realities after
                    all. Or else, by a desperate struggle, she creeps from chaos into order, from
                    darkness into clear day, learns slowly and temperately to distinguish things,
                    and people, in their true colours and natural forms; taking them just as they
                    are, no better and no worse, and trying to make the best of them: to use the
                    world, in short, as its Maker doth—after the example of Him who himself said
                    that the tares and wheat must “grow together until the
                    harvest.”
                Such an one—and I ask those of my sex who read this page, if I have not painted
                    her according to nature? if many weary, dissatisfied hearts, beating heavily
                    with pulses they do not understand, will not confess, that in some poor way I
                    have spoken out their already half?recognised feelings?—such an one will escape
                    that end to which all must come who fix their pleasures alone in this life:the
                    woman of fashion, after the pattern of
                        Mrs. Skewton and Lady Kew: the woman of “mind,”
                    fluttering her faded plumage in the face of a new generation, which recognises
                    her not, or recognises only to make game of her: or the ordinary woman of the
                    world.
                This latter—in the day of decline, who has not encountered her some time or
                    another? Dependent on the pity of those who remember what she was, or might have
                    been; invited out, because there is a certain agreeableness about her still, and
                    because, “poor thing, she likes a little society;” yet made irritable by a
                    perpetual need of excitement, which drives her to prefer anybody’s company to
                    her own. Painfully jealous over every fragment of the affection which she
                    herself has never disinterestedly shown to anybody, but has spread it, like
                    school bread and butter, over so wide a surface, that tastelessness is the
                    natural consequence of its extreme tenuity.
                Friendships she has none: she never either
                    desired or deserved them. In all her long career, she has never been able to
                    take root in any human heart. As for the Heart Divine, the chances are that she
                    has never once sought it, or believed in it. She has believed in a cushioned
                    pew, in a velvet prayer?book with a gilt cross on the back; in certain religious
                    thoughts, words, and deeds, proper for Sundays and holidays, and possibly
                    suitable for that “convenient season” when she means to “make her peace with
                    Heaven,” as the judge tells the criminal who is “turned off” to seek in another
                    existence that hope which man denies. But for all else her
                    soul—contradistinguished from her intellect, which may be vivid and brilliant
                    still—is a blank, a darkness, a death in life.
                And yet the woman of the world will one day have to die!
                We can but leave her to Infinite Mercy then.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                Happy and Unhappy Women.
                I GIVE fair warning that this is likely to be a “sentimental” chapter.
                    Those who object to the same, and complain that these “Thoughts” are “not
                    practical,” had better pass it over at once; since it treats of things
                    essentially unpractical, impossible to be weighed and measured, handled and
                    analysed, yet as real in themselves as the air we breathe and the sunshine we
                    delight in—things wholly intangible, yet the very essence and necessity of our
                    lives.
                Happiness! Can any human being undertake to define it for another? Various
                        last?century poets have indulged in “Odes”
                    to it, and good Mrs. Baubauld wrote a “Search” after it—a most correct,
                    elegantly phrased, and genteel little drama, which, the dramatis personæ being all females, and not a bit of love in the
                    whole, is, I believe, still acted in old?fashioned boarding?schools with great
                        éclat. The plot, if I remember right,
                    consists of an elderly lady’s leading four or five younger ones on the
                    immemorial search, through a good many very long speeches; but whether they ever
                    found happiness, or what it was like when found, I really have not the least
                    recollection.
                Let us hope that excellent Mrs. Baubauld is one of the very few who dare to
                    venture upon even the primary question—What is Happiness? Perhaps, poor dear
                    woman! she is better able to answer it now.
                I fear, the inevitable conclusion we must all come to is, that in the world
                    happiness is quite indefinable. We can no more grasp it than we can grasp the sun in the sky or the moon in the
                    water. We can feel it interpenetrating our whole being with warmth and strength;
                    we can see it in a pale reflection shining elsewhere; or in its total absence,
                    we, walking in darkness, learn to appreciate what it is by what it is not. But I
                    doubt whether any woman ever craved for it, philosophised over it, or—pardon,
                    shade of Barbauld!—commenced the systematic search after it, and ever attained
                    her end. For happiness is not an end—it is only a means, and adjunct, a
                    consequence. The Omnipotent Himself could never be supposed by any, save those
                    who out of their own human selfishness construct the attributes of Divinity, to
                    be absorbed throughout eternity in the contemplation of His own ineffable bliss,
                    were it not identical with His ineffable goodness and love.
                Therefore, whosoever starts with “to be happy” as the summum bonum of existence, will assuredly find out she has made
                    as great a mistake as when in her babyhood she
                    cried, as most of us do, for the moon, which we cannot get for all our crying.
                    And yet it is a very good moon, notwithstanding; a real moon, too, who will help
                    us to many a poetical dream, light us in many a lovers’ walk, till she shine
                    over the grass of our graves upon a new generation ready to follow upon the
                    immemorial quest. Which, like the quest of the Sangreal, is only possible to
                    pure hearts, although the very purest can never fully attain it, except, like
                    Sir Galahad, through the gates of the Holy City—the New Jerusalem.
                Happy and unhappy women—the adjectives being applied less with reference to
                    circumstances than character, which is the only mode of judgment possible—to
                    judge them and discourse of them is a very difficult matter at best. Yet I am
                    afraid it cannot be doubted that there is a large average of unhappiness
                    existent among women: not merely unhappiness of circumstances, but unhappiness
                    of soul—a state of being often as
                    unaccountable as it is irrational, finding vent in those innumerable faults of
                    temper and disposition which arise from no inherent vice, but merely because the
                    individual is not happy.
                Possibly, women more than men are liable to this dreary mental eclipse—neither
                    daylight nor darkness. A man will go poetically wretched or morbidly
                    misanthropic, or any great misfortune will overthrow him entirely, drive him to
                    insanity, lure him to slip out of life through the terrible by?road of suicide;
                    but he rarely drags on existence from year to year, with “nerves,” “low
                    spirits,” and the various maladies of mind and temper that make many women a
                    torment to themselves, and a burden to all connected with them.
                Why is this? and is it inevitable? Any one who could in the smallest degree
                    answer this question, would be doing something to the lessening of a great
                    evil—greater than many other evils which, being social and practical, show more largely on the aggregate census of female
                    woe.
                Most assuredly, however unpoetical may be such a view of the matter, the origin
                    of a great deal of unhappiness is physical disease; or rather, the loss of that
                    healthy condition of body, which in the present state of civilisation, so far
                    removed from a state of nature, can only be kept up in any individual by the
                    knowledge and practice of the ordinary laws of hygiene—generally the very last
                    knowledge that women seem to have. The daily necessities of water, fresh air,
                    proper clothing, food, and sleep, with the due regulation of each of these,
                    without which no human being can expect to live healthily or happily, are
                    matters in which the only excuse for lamentable neglect is still more lamentable
                    ignorance.
                An ignorance the worse, because it is generally quite unacknowledged. If you tell
                    a young girl that water, the colder the better, is essential to every pore of
                    her delicate skin every morning; that moderate
                    out?door exercise, and regularity in eating, sleeping, employment, and
                    amusement, are to her a daily necessity; that she should make it a part of her
                    education to acquire a certain amount of current information on sanitary
                    science, and especially on the laws of her own being, physical and mental: tell
                    her this, and the chances are she will stare at you uncomprehendingly, or be
                    shocked, as if you were saying to her something “improper,” or answer
                    flippantly: “Oh, yes, I know all that.”
                But of what use is the knowledge?—when she lies in bed till ten o’clock, and sits
                    up till any hour the next morning; eats all manner of food at all manner of
                    irregular intervals; is horrified at leaving her bedroom window two inches open,
                    or at being caught in a slight shower; yet will cower all day over the fire in a
                    high woollen dress, and put on a low muslin one in the evening. When she wears
                    all winter thin boots, gossamer stockings, a gown open at the chest and arms, and a loose mantle that every
                    wind blows under, yet wonders that she always has a cold!—and weighs herself
                    down in summer?time with four petticoats heaped one over the other, yet is quite
                    astonished that she gets hot and tired so soon! Truly any sensible,
                    old?fashioned body, who knows how much the health, happiness, and general
                    well?being of this generation—and, alas! not this generation alone—depend upon
                    these charming, loveable, fascinating young fools, cannot fail to be
                    “aggravated” by them every day.
                However humiliating the fact may be to those poetical theorists who, in spite of
                    all the laws of nature, wish to make the soul entirely independent of the
                    body—forgetting, that if so, its temporary probation in the body at all, would
                    have been quite unnecessary—I repeat, there can be no really sanitary state of
                    mind without a similar condition of body; and that one of the first requisites
                    of happiness is good health. But
                    as this is not meant to be an essay on domestic hygiene, I had better here leave
                    the subject.
                Its corresponding phase opens a gate of misery so wide that one almost shrinks
                    from entering it. Infinite, past human counting or judging, are the causes of
                    mental unhappiness. Many of them spring from a real foundation, of sorrows
                    varied beyond all measuring or reasoning upon: of these, I do not attempt to
                    speak, for words would be idle and presumptuous; I only speak of that frame of
                    mind—sometimes left behind by a great trouble, sometimes arising from troubles
                    purely imaginary—which is called “an unhappy disposition.”
                Its root of pain is manifold; but, with women, undoubtedly can be oftenest traced
                    to something connected with the affections: not merely the passion called
                        par excellence love, but the entire range
                    of personal sympathies and attachments, out of which we draw the sweetness and
                        bitterness of the best part of our lives.
                    If otherwise—if, as the phrase goes, an individual happens to have “more head
                    than heart,” she may be a very clever, agreeable personage, but she is not
                    properly a woman—not the creature who, with all her imperfections,
                    is nearer to heaven than man, in one particular—she “loves much.” And loving is
                    so frequently, nay, inevitably, identical with suffering, either with, or for,
                    or from, the object beloved, that we need not go further to find the cause of
                    the many anxious, soured faces, and irritable tempers, that we meet with among
                    women.
                Charity cannot too deeply or too frequently call to mind how very difficult it is
                    to be good, or amiable, or even commonly agreeable, when one is inwardly
                    miserable. This fact is not enough recognised by those very worthy people who
                    take such a world of pains to make other people virtuous, and so very little to
                    make them happy. They sow good seed, are everlastingly weeding and watering,
                    give it every care and advantage under the
                    sun—except sunshine—and then they wonder that it does not flower!
                One may see many a young woman who has, outwardly speaking, “everything she can
                    possibly want,” absolutely withering in the atmosphere of a loveless home,
                    exposed to those small ill?humours by which people mean no harm—only
                        do it; chilled by reserve, wounded by neglect, or worried by
                    anxiety over some thoughtless one, who might so easily have spared her it all;
                    safe from either misfortune or ill?treatment, yet harassed daily by petty pains
                    and unconscious cruelties, which a stranger might laugh at; and she laughs
                    herself when she counts them up, they are so very small—yet they are there.
                “I can bear anything,” said to me a woman, no longer very young or very
                    fascinating, or particularly clever, who had gone through seas of sorrow, yet
                    whose blue eyes still kept the dewiness and cheerfulness of their youth; “I can
                    bear anything, except unkindness.”
                
                She was right. There are numberless cases where gentle creatures, who would have
                    endured bravely any amount of real trouble, have their lives frozen up by those
                    small unkindnesses which copy?books avouch to be “a great offence;” where an
                    avalanche of worldly benefits, an act of undoubted generosity, or the most
                    conscientious administering of a friendly rebuke, has had its good effects
                    wholly neutralised by the manner in which it was done. It is vain to preach to
                    people unless you also love them—Christianly love them; it is not the smallest
                    use to try to make people good, unless you try at the same time—and they feel
                    that you are trying—to make them happy. And you rarely can make another happy,
                    unless you are happy yourself.
                Naming the affections as the chief source of unhappiness among our sex, it would
                    be wrong to pass over one phase of them, which must nevertheless be touched
                    tenderly and delicately, as one that women instinctively hide out of sight and
                         comment. I mean what is usually termed “a
                    disappointment.” Alas!—as if there were disappointments but those of love! and
                    yet, until men and women are made differently from what God made them, it must
                    always be, from its very secretness and inwardness, the sharpest of all pangs,
                    save that of conscience.
                A lost love. Deny it who will, ridicule it, treat it as mere imagination and
                    sentiment, the thing is and will be; and women do suffer therefrom, in all its
                    infinite varieties: loss by death, by faithlessness or unworthiness, and by
                    mistaken or unrequited affection. Of these, the second is beyond all question
                    the worst. There is in death a consecration which lulls the sharpest personal
                    anguish into comparative calm; and in time there comes, to all pure and
                    religious natures, that sense of total possession of the objects beloved, which
                    death alone gives—that faith, which is content to see them safe landed out of
                    the troubles of this changeful life, into the
                    life everlasting. And an attachment which has always been on one side only, has
                    a certain incompleteness which prevents its ever knowing the full agony of
                    having and losing, while at the same time it preserves to the last a dreamy
                    sanctity which sweetens half its pain. But to have loved and lost, either by
                    that total disenchantment which leaves compassion as the sole substitute for
                    love which can exist no more, or by the slow torment which is obliged to let go
                    day by day all that constitutes the diviner part of love—namely, reverence,
                    belief, and trust, yet clings desperately to the only thing left it, a
                    long?suffering apologetic tenderness—this lot is probably the hardest any woman
                    can have to bear. 
                        “What is good for a bootless bene?—
                        And she made answer, Endless sorrow.”
                    
                No. There is no sorrow under heaven which is, or ought to be, endless. To believe
                    or to make it so, is an insult to Heaven itself. Each of us must have known more
                    than one instance where a saintly or heroic
                    life has been developed from what at first seemed a stroke like death itself; a
                    life full of the calmest and truest happiness—because it has bent itself to the
                    Divine will, and learned the best of all lessons, to endure. But how that lesson
                    is learned, through what bitter teaching, hard to be understood or obeyed, till
                    the hand of the Great Teacher is recognised clearly through it all, is a subject
                    too sacred to be entered upon here.
                It is a curious truth—and yet a truth forced upon us by daily observation—that it
                    is not the women who have suffered most who are the unhappy women.
                    A state of permanent unhappiness—not the morbid, half?cherished melancholy of
                    youth, which generally wears off with wiser years, but that settled, incurable
                    discontent and dissatisfaction with all things and all people, which we see in
                    some women, is, with very rare exceptions, at once the index and the exponent of
                    a thoroughly selfish character. Nor can it be
                    too early impressed upon every girl that this condition of mental mal?aise, whatever be its origin, is neither a
                    poetical nor a beautiful thing, but a mere disease, and as such ought to be
                    combated and medicined with all remedies in her power, practical, corporeal, and
                    spiritual. For though it is folly to suppose that happiness is a matter of
                    volition, and that we can make ourselves content and cheerful whenever we
                    choose—a theory that many poor hypochondriacs are taunted with till they are
                    nigh driven mad—yet, on the other hand, no sane mind is ever left without the
                    power of self?discipline and self?control in a measure, which measure increases
                    in proportion as it is exercised.
                Let any sufferer be once convinced that she has this power—that it is possible by
                    careful watch, or, better, by substitution of subjects and occupations, to
                    abstract her mind from dwelling on some predominant idea, which otherwise runs
                    in and out of the chambers of the brain like a
                    haunting devil, at last growing into the monomania which, philosophy says, every
                    human being is affected with, on some particular point—only, happily, he does
                    not know it; only let her try if she has not, with regard to her mental
                    constitution, the same faculty which would prevent her from dancing with a
                    sprained ankle, or imagining that there is an earthquake because her own head is
                    spinning with fever, and she will have at least taken the first steps towards
                    cure. As many a man sits wearying his soul out by trying to remedy some grand
                    flaw in the plan of society, or the problem of the universe, when perhaps the
                    chief thing wrong is his own liver, or overtasked brain; so many a woman will
                    pine away to the brink of the grave with an imaginary broken heart, or sour to
                    the very essence of vinegar on account of everybody’s supposed ill?usage of her,
                    when it is her own restless, dissatisfied, selfish heart, which makes her at war
                    with everybody.
                
                Would that women—and men, too, but that their busier and more active lives save
                    most of them from it—could be taught from their childhood to recognise as an
                    evil spirit this spirit of causeless melancholy—this demon which dwells among
                    the tombs, and yet, which first shows itself in such a charming and picturesque
                    form, that we hug it to our innocent breasts, and never suspect that it may
                    enter in and dwell there till we are actually “possessed;” cease almost to be
                    accountable beings, and are fitter for a lunatic asylum than for the
                    home?circle, which, be it ever so bright and happy, has always, from the
                    inevitable misfortunes of life, only too much need of sunshine rather than
                    shadow, or permanent gloom.
                Oh, if such women did but know what comfort there is in a cheerful spirit! how
                    the heart leaps up to meet a sunshiny face, a merry tongue, an even temper, and
                    a heart which either naturally, or, what is better, from conscientious
                        principle, has learned to take all things
                    on their bright side, believing that the Giver of life being all?perfect Love,
                    the best offering we can make to Him is to enjoy to the full what He sends of
                    good, and bear what He allows of evil!—like a child who, when once it thoroughly
                    believes in its father, believes in all his dealings with it, whether it
                    understands them or not.
                And here, if the subject were not too solemn to be more than touched upon,—yet no
                    one dare avoid it who believes that there are no such distinctions as “secular”
                    and “religious,” but that the whole earth with all therein is, not only on
                    Sundays, but all days, continually “the LORD’S—I will put
                    it to most people’s experience, which is better than a hundred homilies,
                    whether, though they may have known sincere Christians who, from various causes,
                    were not altogether happy, they ever knew one happy person, man or
                    woman, who, whatever his or her form of creed might be, was not in heart, and speech, and daily life, emphatically a
                    follower of Christ—a Christian?
                Among the many secondary influences which can be employed either by or upon a
                    naturally anxious or morbid temperament, there is none so ready to hand, or so
                    wholesome, as that one incessantly referred to in the course of these
                    pages,—constant employment. A very large number of women, particularly young
                    women, are by nature constituted so exceedingly restless of mind, or with such a
                    strong physical tendency to nervous depression, that they can by no possibility
                    keep themselves in a state of even tolerable cheerfulness, except by being
                    continually occupied. At what, matters little; even apparently useless work is
                    far better for them than no work at all. To such I cannot too strongly recommend
                    the case of 
                        “Honest John Tomkins, the hedger and ditcher,
                        Who, though he was poor, didn’t want to be richer,“
                     but always managed to keep in a state of sub? lime content and superabundant gaiety; and how? 
                        “He always had something or other to do,
                        If not for himself—for his neighbour.”
                    
                And that work for our neighbour is perhaps the most useful and satisfactory of
                    the two, because it takes us out of ourselves; which, to a person who has not a
                    happy self to rest in, is one good thing achieved: this, quite apart from the
                    abstract question of benevolence, or the notion of keeping a balance?sheet with
                    Heaven for work done to our fellow?creatures—certainly a very fruitless recipe
                    for happiness.
                The sufferer, on waking in the morning—that cruel moment when any incurable pain
                    wakes up too, sharply, so sharply! and the burden of a monotonous life falls
                    down upon us, or rises like a dead blank wall before us, making us turn round on
                    the pillow longing for another night, instead of an insupportable day—should
                    rouse herself with the though: “Now, what have I got to do to?day?” (Mark, not to enjoy or to suffer, only to
                    do.) She should never lie down at night without counting up, with a
                    resolute, uncompromising, unexcusing veracity, “How much have I done to?day?” “I
                    can’t be happy,” she may ponder wearily; “’tis useless trying—so we’ll not think
                    about it: but how much have I done this day? how much can I do tomorrow?” And if
                    she has strength steadily to fulfil this manner of life, it will be strange if,
                    some day, the faint, involuntary thrill that we call “feeling happy”—something
                    like that with which we stop to see a daisy at our feet in January—does not come
                    and startle into vague, mysterious hope, the poor wondering heart.
                Another element of happiness, incalculable in its influence over those of
                    sensitive and delicate physical organisation, is Order. Any one who has just
                    quitted a disorderly household, where the rooms are untidy and “littery,” where
                    meals take place at any hour and in any fashion, where there is a general atmosphere of noise, confusion, and irregularity; of
                    doing things at all times and seasons, or not doing anything in particular all
                    day over; who, emerging from this, drops into a quiet, busy, regular family,
                    where each has an appointed task, and does it; where the day moves on smoothly,
                    subdivided by proper seasons of labour, leisure, food, and sleep—oh, what a
                    Paradise it seems! How the restless or anxious spirit nestles down in it, and,
                    almost without volition, falls into its cheerful round, recovering tone, and
                    calm, and strength. 
                        “Order is Heaven’s first law,”
                     and a mind without order can by no possibility be either a healthy or a
                    happy mind. Therefore, beyond all sentimental sympathy, or contemptuous blame,
                    should be impressed upon all women inclined to melancholy, or weighed down with
                    any irremediable grief, this simple advice—to make their daily round of life as
                        harmoniously methodical as they possibly
                    can; leaving no odd hours, scarcely an odd ten minutes, to be idle and dreary
                    in; and by means of orderly?arranged, light, airy rooms, neat dress, and every
                    pleasant external influence that is attainable, to leave untried none of these
                    secondary means which are in the power of every one of us, for our own benefit
                    or that of others, and the importance of which we never know until we have
                    proved them.
                There is another maxim—easy to give, and hard to practise—Accustom yourself
                    always to look at the bright side of things, and never make a fuss about
                    trifles. It is pitiful to see what mere nothings some women will worry and fret
                    over—lamenting as much over an ill?made gown as others do over a lost fortune;
                    how some people we can always depend upon for making the best, instead of the
                    worst, of whatever happens, thus greatly lessening our anxieties for themselves
                    in their troubles; and, oh! how infinitely comforting when we bring to them any
                    of our own. For we all of us have—wretched,
                    indeed, if we have not!—some friends, or friend, to whom we instinctively carry
                    every one of our griefs or vexations, assured that, if any one can help us, they
                    can and will; while with others we as instinctively “keep ourselves to
                    ourselves,” whether sorrowing or rejoicing; and many more there are whom we
                    should never dream of burdening with our cares at all, any more than we would
                    think of putting a butterfly in harness.
                The disposition which can bear trouble; which, while passing over the lesser
                    annoyances of life, as unworthy to be measured in life?s whole sum, can yet meet
                    real affliction steadily, struggle with it while resistance is possible;
                    conquered, sit down patiently, to let the storms sweep over; and on their
                    passing, if they pass, rise up, and go on its way, looking up to that region of
                    blue calm which is never long invisible to the pure of heart—this is the
                    blessedest possession that any woman can have. Better than a house full of silver and gold, better than beauty, or high
                    fortunes, or prosperous and satisfied love.
                While, on the other hand, of all characters not radically bad, there is none more
                    useless to herself and everybody else, who inflicts more pain, anxiety, and
                    gloom on those around her, than the one who is often deprecatingly or
                    apologetically described as being “of an unhappy temperament.” You many know her
                    at once by her dull or vinegar aspect, her fidgety ways, her proneness to take
                    the hard or ill?natured view of things and people. Possibly she is unmarried,
                    and her mocking acquaintance insult womanhood by setting down that as the cause
                    of her disagreeableness. Most wicked libel! There never was an unhappy old maid
                    yet who would not have been equally unhappy as a wife—and more guilty, for she
                    would have made two people miserable instead of one. It needs only to count up
                    all the unhappy women one knows—women whom one would not change lots with for the riches of the Queen of Sheba—to see that
                    most of them are those whom fate has apparently loaded with benefits, love,
                    home, ease, luxury, leisure; and denied only the vague fine something, as
                    indescribable as it is unattainable,—the capacity to enjoy them all.
                Unfortunate ones! You see by their countenances that they never know what it is
                    to enjoy. That thrill of thankful gladness, oftenest caused by little things—a
                    lovely bit of nature, a holiday after long toil, a sudden piece of good news, an
                    unexpected face, or a letter that warms one’s inmost heart—to them is altogether
                    incomprehensible. To hear one of them in her rampant phase, you would suppose
                    the whole machinery of the universe, down even to the weather, was in league
                    against her small individuality; that everything everybody did, or said, or
                    thought, was with one sole purpose—her personal injury. And when she sinks to
                    the melancholy mood, though your heart may bleed for her, aware how horribly real are her self?created sufferings, still
                    your tenderness sits uneasily, more as a duty than a pleasure; and you often
                    feel, and are shocked at feeling, that her presence acts upon you like the
                    proverbial wet?blanket, and her absence gives you an involuntary sense of
                    relief.
                For, though we may pity the unhappy ever so lovingly and sincerely, and strive
                    with all our power to lift them out of their grief,—when they hug it, and refuse
                    to be lifted out of it, patience sometimes fails. Human life is so full of pain,
                    that once past the youthful delusion that a sad countenance is interesting, and
                    an incurable woe the most delightful thing possible, the mind instinctively
                    turns where it can get rest, and cheer, and sunshine. And the friend who can
                    bring to it the largest portion of these is, of a natural necessity, the most
                    useful, the most welcome, and the most dear.
                The “happy woman”—in this our world, which is
                    apparently meant to be the road to perfection, never its goal—you will find too
                    few specimens to be ever likely to mistake her. But you will recognise her
                    presence the moment she crosses your path. Not by her extreme liveliness—lively
                    people are rarely either happy or able to diffuse happiness; but by a sense of
                    brightness and cheerfulness that enters with her—as an evening sunbeam across
                    your parlour wall. Like the fairy Order in the nursery tale, she takes up the
                    tangled threads of your mind, and reduces them to regularity, till you
                    distinguish a clear pattern through the ugly maze. She may be neither handsome,
                    nor clever, nor entertaining, yet somehow she makes you feel “comfortable,”
                    because she is so comfortable herself. She shames you out of your complainings,
                    for she makes none. Yet, mayhap, since it is divine law that we should all, like
                    our Master, be “made perfect through suffering,” you are fully aware that she
                    has had far more sor? row than ever you had;
                    that her daily path, had you to tread it, would be to you as gloomy and full of
                    pitfalls as to her it is safe and bright. She may have even less than the medium
                    lot of earthly blessings, yet all she has she enjoys to the full; and it is so
                    pleasant to see any one enjoy! For her sorrows, she neither hypocritically
                    denies, nor proudly smothers them—she simply bears them; therefore they come to
                    her, as sorrows were meant to come, naturally and wholesomely, and passing over,
                    leave her full of compassion for all who may have to endure the same.
                Thus, whatever her fate may be, married or single, rich or poor, in health or
                    sickness—though a cheerful spirit has twice as much chance of health as a
                    melancholy one—she will be all her days a living justification of the ways of
                    Providence, Who makes the light as well as the darkness, nay, makes the light
                    out of the darkness. For not only in the creation of a world, but in that which is equally marvellous, the
                    birth and development of every human soul, there is a divine verity symbolised
                    by the one line,— 
                        And GOD said, Let there be light! and there
                                was light.
                    
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XI.
                Lost Women.
                I ENTER on this subject with a hesitation strong enough to have
                    prevented my entering on it at all, did I not believe that to write for or
                    concerning women, and avoid entirely that deplorable phase of womanhood which,
                    in country cottages as in city streets, in books, newspapers, and daily talk,
                    meets us so continually that no young girl can long be kept ignorant of it, is
                    to give a one?sided and garbled view of life, which, however pretty and
                    pleasant, would be false, and being false, useless. We have not to construct
                    human nature afresh, but to take it as we find it, and make the best of it: we have no right, not even the most
                    sensitive of us women, mercifully constituted with less temptation to evil than
                    men, to treat as impure what God has made not impure, or to shrink with
                    sanctimonious ultra?delicacy from the barest mention of things which, though
                    happy circumstances of temperament or education have shielded us from ever being
                    touched or harmed thereby, we must know to exist. If we do not know it, our
                    ignorance—quite a different thing from innocence—is at once both helpless and
                    dangerous: narrows our judgment, exposes us to a thousand painful mistakes, and
                    greatly limits our power of usefulness in the world.
                On the other hand, a woman who is for ever paddling needlessly in the filthy
                    puddles of human nature, just as a child delights in walking up a dirty gutter
                    when there is a clean pavement alongside, deserves, like the child, whatever mud
                    she gets. And there is even a worse kind of
                    woman still, only too common among respectable matrons, talkative old maids, and
                    even worldly, fascinating young ones, who is ready to rake up every scandalous
                    tale, and titter over ever vile double
                        entendre, who degrades the most solemn mysteries of holy Nature
                    into vehicles for disgraceful jokes, whose mind, instead of being a decent
                    dwelling?house, is a perfect Augean stable of uncleanness. Such a one cannot be
                    too fiercely reprobated, too utterly despised. However intact her reputation,
                    she is as great a slur upon womanhood, as great a bane to all true modesty, as
                    the most unchaste Messalina who ever disgraced her sex.
                I beg to warn these foul grubbers in the dark places of the earth—not for
                    purposes of cleansing, but merely because it amuses them—that they will not find
                    anything entertaining in this article. They will only find one woman’s indignant
                    protest against a tone of thought and
                    conversation which, as their consciences will tell them, many other women think
                    it no shame to pursue when among their own sex; and which, did the other sex
                    know it, would be as harmful, as fatal, as any open vice, by making men
                    disbelieve in virtue—disbelieve in us. For its vileness in the
                    sight of Heaven—truly, if we think of that, many a well?reputed British lady is
                    as much a “lost” woman as any poor, seduced creature whose child is born in a
                    workhouse, or strangled at a ditch?side.
                It is to the latter class, who have fallen out of the ranks of honest women,
                    without sinking to a lower depth still, that I chiefly refer: because with them,
                    those for whom this book is meant—namely, the ordinary middle ranks of unmarried
                    females—are more likely to have to do. That other class, awful in its extent and
                    universality, of women who make a trade of sin, whom philanthropists and
                    political eco? nomists are for ever
                    discussing, and can come to no conclusion about—I leave to the wise and generous
                    of both sexes who devote their lives to the subject; to the examination and
                    amelioration of a fact so terrible that, were it not a fact, one would hardly be
                    justified in alluding to it here. Wretched ones! whom even to think of turns any
                    woman’s heart cold, with shame for her own sex, and horror at the other:
                    outcasts to whom happiness and love are things unknown, God and heaven mere
                    words to swear with, and to whom this earth must be a daily hell: 
                        “Non ragionam di lor, ma guarda, e passa.”
                    
                But the others cross our path continually. No one can have taken any interest in
                    the working?classes without being aware how frightfully common among them is
                    what they term “a misfortune”—how few young women come to the marriage?altar at
                    all, or come there just a week or two before
                    maternity; or having already had several children, often only half brothers and
                    sisters, whom no ceremony has ever legalized. Whatever be the causes of this—and
                    I merely skim over the surface of a state of things which the Times
                    and Sanitary Commissioners have plumbed to sickening depths—it undoubtedly
                    exists; and no single woman who takes any thought of what is going on around
                    her, no mistress or mother who requires constantly servants for her house, and
                    nurse?maids for her children, can or dare blind herself to the fact. It is easy
                    for tenderly reared young ladies, who study human passions through Miss Austen
                    or Miss Edgeworth, or the Loves of the Angels, to say: “How
                    shocking! Oh, it can’t be true!” But it is true; and they will not live many
                    more years without finding it to be true. Better face truth at once, in all its
                    bareness, than be swaddled up for ever in the folds of a silken falsehood.
                
                Another fact, stranger still to account for, is, that the women who thus fall are
                    by no means the worst of their station. I have heard it affirmed by more than
                    one lady—by one in particular, whose experience is as large as her
                    benevolence—that many of them are of the very best; refined, intelligent,
                    truthful, and affectionate.
                “I don’t know how it is,” she would say—“whether their very superiority makes
                    them dissatisfied with their own rank—such brutes or clowns as labouring men
                    often are!—so that they fall easier victims to the rank above them; or whether,
                    though this theory will shock many people, other virtues can exist and flourish,
                    entirely distinct from, and after the loss of, that which we are accustomed to
                    believe the indispensable prime virtue of our sex—chastity. I cannot explain it;
                    I can only say that it is so: that some of my most promising village?girls have
                    been the first to come to harm; and some of
                    the best and most faithful servants I ever had, have been girls who have fallen
                    into shame, and who, had I not gone to the rescue, and put them on the way to do
                    well, would infallibly have become ‘lost’ women.”
                There, perhaps, is one clue caught. Had she not “come to the rescue.” Rescue,
                    then, is possible; and they were capable of being rescued.
                I read lately an essay, and from a pure and good woman’s pen, too, arguing, what
                    licentious materialists are now?a?days unblushingly asserting, that chastity is
                        not indispensable in our sex; that the old chivalrous boast of
                    families—“all their men were brave, and all their women virtuous”—was, to say
                    the least, a mistake, which led people into worse ills than it remedied, by
                    causing an extravagant terror at the loss of these good qualities, and a
                    corresponding indifference to evil ones much more important.
                
                While widely differing from this writer—for God forbid that our Englishwomen
                    should ever come to regard with less horror than now the loss of personal
                    chastity!—I think it cannot be doubted that even this loss does not indicate
                    total corruption or entail permanent degradation; that after it, and in spite of
                    it, many estimable and womanly qualities may be found existing, not only in our
                    picturesque Nell Gwynnes and Peg Woffingtons, but our
                    poor everyday sinners: the servant obliged to be dismissed without a character
                    and with a baby; the sempstress quitting starvation for elegant infamy; the
                    illiterate village lass, who thinks it so grand to be made a lady of—so much
                    better to be a rich man’s mistress than a working?man’s ill?used wife, or rather
                    slave.
                Till we allow that no one sin, not even this sin, necessarily corrupts the entire
                    character, we shall scarcely be able to judge it with that fairness which gives
                    hope of our remedying it, or trying to lessen
                    in ever so minute a degree, by our individual dealing with any individual case
                    that comes in our way, the enormous aggregate of misery that it entails. This it
                    behoves us to do, even on selfish grounds, for it touches us closer than many of
                    us are aware—ay, in our hearths and homes—in the sons and brothers that we have
                    to send out to struggle in a world of which we at the fireside know absolutely
                    nothing; if we marry, in the fathers we give to our innocent children, the
                    servants we trust their infancy to, and the influences to which we are obliged
                    to expose them daily and hourly, unless we were to bring them up in a sort of
                    domestic Happy Valley, which their first effort would be to get out of as fast
                    as ever they could. And supposing we are saved from all this; that our position
                    is one peculiarly exempt from evil; that if pollution in any form comes nigh us,
                    we just sweep it hastily and noiselessly away from our doors, and think we are
                    all right and safe. Alas! we forget that a
                    refuse?heap outside her gate may breed a plague even in a queen’s palace.
                One word, before continuing this subject. Many of us will not investigate it
                    because they are afraid: afraid, not so much of being, as of being thought to
                    be, especially by the other sex, incorrect, indelicate, unfeminine; of being
                    supposed to know more than they ought to know, or than the present refinement of
                    society—a good and beautiful thing when real—concludes that they do know.
                O women! women! why have you not more faith in yourselves—in that strong inner
                    purity which alone can make a woman brave! which, if she knows herself to be
                    clean in heart and desire, in body and soul, loving cleanness for its own sake,
                    and not for the credit that it brings, will give her a freedom of action and a
                    fearlessness of consequences which are to her a greater safeguard than any
                    external decorum. To be, and not to seem, is
                    the amulet of her innocence.
                Young women, who look forward to marriage and motherhood, in all its peace and
                    dignity, as your natural lot, have you ever thought for a moment what it must be
                    to feel that you have lost innocence, that no power on earth can ever make you
                    innocent any more, or give you back that jewel of glory and strength, having
                    which, as the old superstition says, 
                        “Even the lion will turn and flee
                        From a maid in the pride of her purity?”
                     That, whether the world knows it or not, you know yourself to
                    be—not this? The free, happy ignorance of maidenhood is gone for ever; the
                    sacred dignity and honour of matronhood is not, and never can be attained.
                    Surely this consciousness alone must be the most awful punishment to any woman;
                    and from it no kindness, no sympathy, no
                    concealment of shame, or even restoration to good repute, can entirely free her.
                    She must bear her burden, lighter or heavier as it may seem at different times,
                    and she must bear it to the day of her death. I think this fact alone is enough
                    to make a chaste woman’s first feeling towards an unchaste that of unqualified,
                    unmitigated pity.
                This, not in the form of exaggerated sentimentalism, with which it has of late
                    been the fashion to treat such subjects, laying all the blame upon the seducer,
                    and exalting the seduced into a paragon of injured simplicity, whom society
                    ought to pet, and soothe, and treat with far more interest and consideration
                    than those who have not erred. Never, as it seems to me, was there a greater
                    mistake than that into which some writers have fallen, in fact and fiction, but
                    especially in fiction, through their generous over?eagerness to redeem the lost.
                    These are painted—one heroine I call to mind
                    now—as such patterns of excellence, that we wonder, first, how they ever could
                    have been led astray, and secondly, whether this exceeding helplessness and
                    simplicity of theirs did not make the sin so venial, that it seems as wrong to
                    blame them for it as to scold a child for tumbling into an open well.
                    Consequently, their penitence becomes unnecessary and unnatural; their suffering
                    disproportionably unjust. You close the book, inclined to arraign society,
                    morality, and, what is worse, Providence; but for all else, feeling that the
                    question is left much as you found it; that angelic sinners such as these, if
                    they exist at all, are such exceptions to the generality of their class, that
                    their example is of very little practical service to the rest.
                To refine away error till it is hardly error at all, to place vice under such
                    extenuating circumstances that we cannot condemn it for sheer pity, is a fault
                    so dangerous that Charity herself ought to
                    steel her heart against it. Far better and safer to call Crime by its right
                    name, and paint it in its true colours—treating it even as the Ragged Schools
                    did the young vagabonds of our streets—not by persuading them and society that
                    they were clean, respectable, ill?used, and maligned individuals; or by waiting
                    for them to grow decent before they dealt with them at all, but by simply
                    saying: “Come, just as you are—ragged, dirty, dishonest. Only come, and we will
                    do our best to make you what you ought to be.”
                Allowing the pity, which, as I said, ought to be a woman’s primary sentiment
                    towards her lost sisterhood, what is the next thing to be done? Surely there
                    must be some light beyond that of mere compassion to guide her in her
                    after?conduct towards them?
                Where shall we find this light? In the world and its ordinary code of social
                    morality, suited to social convenience? I fear not. The general opinion, even among good men, seems to be
                    that this great question is a very sad thing, but a sort of unconquerable
                    necessity; there is no use in talking about it, and indeed the less it is talked
                    of the better. Good women are much of the same mind. The laxer?principled of
                    both sexes treat the matter with philosophical indifference, or with the kind of
                    laugh that makes the blood boil in any truly virtuous heart.
                Then, where are we to look?— 
                        ”I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to
                            repentance.”
                    
                    
                        ”Neither do I condemn thee: go and sin no more.”
                    
                    
                        ”Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; because she loved
                            much.”
                    
                These words, thus quoted here, may raise a sneer on the lips of some, and shock
                    others who are accustomed to put on religion with their Sunday clothes, and take
                    it off on Monday, as quite too fine, maybe too useless for every?day wear. But I must write them, because I
                    believe them. I believe there is no other light on this difficult question than
                    that given by the New Testament. There, clear and plain, and everywhere
                    repeated, shines the doctrine—of which, until then, there was no trace, either
                    in external or revealed religion—that for every crime, being repented of and
                    forsaken, there is forgiveness with Heaven; and if with Heaven, there ought to
                    be with men. This, without entering at all into the doctrine question of
                    atonement, but simply taking the basis of Christian morality, as contrasted with
                    the natural morality of the savage, or even of the ancient Jew, which without
                    equivalent retribution pre?supposes no such thing as pardon.
                All who have had any experience among criminals—from the poor little “black
                    sheep” of the family, who is always getting into trouble, and is told
                    continually by everybody that, strive as he will, he never can be a good boy, like brother Tommy, down to the lowest,
                    most reprobate convict, who is shipped off to the colonies because the
                    mother?country cannot exactly hang him, and does not know what else to do with
                    him—unite in stating that, when you shut the door of hope on any human soul, you
                    may at once give up all chance of its reformation. As well bid a man eat without
                    food, see without light, or breathe without air, as bid him mend his ways, while
                    at the same time you tell him that, however he amends, he will be in just the
                    same position—the same hopelessly degraded, unpardoned, miserable sinner.
                Yet this is practically the language used to fallen women, and chiefly by their
                    own sex: “God may forgive you, but we never can!”—a declaration which, however
                    common, in spirit if not in substance, is, when one comes to analyse it,
                    unparalleled in its arrogance of blasphemy.
                
                That for a single offence, however grave, a whole life should be blasted, is a
                    doctrine repugnant even to Nature’s own dealings in the visible world. There,
                    her voice clearly says—“Let all these wonderful powers of vital renewal have
                    free play: let the foul flesh slough itself away; lop off the gangrened limb;
                    enter into life maimed, if it must be:” but never, till the last moment of total
                    dissolution, does she say; “Thou shalt not enter into life at all.”
                Therefore, once let a woman feel that, in moral as in physical disease, “while
                    there is life there is hope”—dependant on the one only condition that she shall
                        sin no more, and what a future you open for her! what a weight
                    you lift off from her poor miserable spirit, which might otherwise be crushed
                    down to the lowest deep, to that which is far worse than any bodily pollution,
                    ineradicable corruption of soul!
                The next thing to be set before her is courage. That intolerable dread of shame,
                        which is the last token of departing
                    modesty, to what will it not drive some women! To what self?control and
                    ingenuity, what resistance of weakness and endurance of bodily pain, which, in
                    another cause, would be called heroic—blunting every natural instinct, and
                    goading them on to the last refuge of mortal fear—infanticide.
                Surely, even by this means, many a woman might be saved, if there were any one to
                    save her, any one to say plainly: “What are you afraid of—God or man? your sin
                    or its results?” Alas! it will be found almost invariably the latter: loss of
                    position, of character, and consequently of the means of livelihood.
                    Respectability shuts the door upon her; mothers will not let their young folks
                    come into contact with her; mistresses will not take her as a servant. Nor can
                    one wonder at this, even while believing that in many cases the fear is much
                    more selfish than virtuous, and continued long after its cause has entirely
                    ceased to exist. It is one of the few cases in
                    which—at least at first—the sufferers cannot help themselves; they must suffer
                    for a season: they must bear patiently the working out of that immutable law
                    which makes sin, sooner or later, its own Nemesis.
                But not for ever—and it is worth while, in considering this insane terror of
                    worldly opinion, to ask: “Which half of the world are you afraid of, the good or
                    the bad?” For it may often be noticed, the less virtuous people are, the more
                    they shrink away from the slightest whiff of the odour of un?sanctity. The good
                    are ever the most charitable, the pure are the most brave. I believe there are
                    hundreds and thousands of Englishwomen who would willingly throw the shelter of
                    their stainless repute around any poor creature who came to them and said
                    honestly: “I have sinned—help me that I may sin no more.” But the unfortunates
                    will not believe this. They are like the poor Indians, who think it necessary to
                    pacify the evil principle by a greater worship
                    than that which they offer to the Good Spirit; because, they say, the Bad Spirit
                    is the stronger. Have we not, even in this Britain, far too many such tacit
                    devil?worshippers?
                Given a chance, the smallest chance, and a woman’s redemption lies in her own
                    hands. She cannot be too strongly impressed with this fact, or too soon. No
                    human power could have degraded her against her will; no human power can keep
                    her in degradation unless by her will. Granted the sin, howsoever incurred,
                    wilfully or blindly, or under circumstances of desperate temptation; capable of
                    some palliations, or with no palliation at all—take it just as it stands, in its
                    whole enormity, and—there leave it. Set it aside, at once and altogether, and
                    begin anew. Better beg, or hunger, or die in a ditch—except that the people who
                    die in ditches are not usually the best of even this world’s children—than live
                    a day in voluntary unchastity.
                
                This may sound fine and romantic—far too romantic, forsooth, to be applied to any
                    of the cases that we are likely to meet with. And yet it is the plain truth: as
                    true of a king’s mistress as of a ruined servant?maid. No help from without can
                    rescue either, unless she wishes to save herself.
                She has more power to do this than at first appears; but it must be by the prime
                    agent, Truth.
                After the false step, the principal cause of women’s further downfall is their
                    being afraid of truth—truth, which must of necessity be the beginning and end of
                    all attempts at restoration to honour. For the wretched girl, who, in terror of
                    losing a place, or of being turned from an angry father’s door, fabricates tale
                    after tale, denies and denies till she can deny no longer, till all ends in a
                    jail and a charge of child?murder; for the fashionable lady whose life is a long
                    deceit, exposed to constant fear lest a breath should tear her flimsy reputation to rags; and for all the
                    innumerable cases between these two poles of society, there is but one
                    warning—No virtue ever was founded on a lie.
                The truth, then, at all risks and costs—the truth from the beginning. Make a
                    clean breast to whomsoever you need to make it, and then—face the world.
                This must be terrible enough—no denying that; but it must be done: there is no
                    help for it. Perhaps, in many a case, if it were done at once, it would save
                    much after?misery, especially the perpetual dread and danger of exposure, which
                    makes the sin itself quite a secondary consideration compared with the fear of
                    its discovery. This once over, with all its paralysing effects, the worst has
                    come to the worst, and there is a chance of hope.
                Begin again. Put the whole past life aside as if it had never been, and try what
                    you can do with the future. This, I think, should be the counsel given to all erring women not
                    irretrievable “lost.”
                It would be a blessed thing if our honourable women, mothers and matrons, would
                    consider a little more what could be done with such persons: any openings for
                    useful employment; any positions sufficiently guarded to be safe, and yet free
                    enough to afford trial, without drawing too harshly the line—always harsh
                    enough—between these, and those who are of unblemished reputation.
                    Reformatories, Magdalen Institutions, and the like, are admirable in their way;
                    but there are numberless cases in which individual judgment and help alone are
                    possible. It is this—the train of thought that shall result in act, and which I
                    desire to suggest to individual minds, in the hope of arousing that
                    imperceptibly small influence of the many, which forms the strongest lever of
                    universal opinion.
                I said in a former paper, that the only way to make people good, is to make them
                        happy. Strange that this truth should
                    apply to circumstances like these now written of! and yet it does; and it would
                    be vain to deny it. Bid a woman lift up her head and live; tell her that she can
                    and ought to live, and you must give her something to live for. You must put
                    into her poor sore heart, if you can, a little more than peace—comfort. And
                    where is she to find it?
                Heterodox as the doctrine may appear to some, it seems to me that Heaven always
                    leaves its sign of hope and redemption on any woman when she is left with a
                    child. Some taste of the ineffable joy, the solemn consecration of maternity,
                    must come even to the most wretched and guilty creature thinking of the double
                    life she bears, or the helpless life to which she has given birth—that life for
                    which she is as responsible to God, to itself, and to the world, as any married
                    mother of them all.
                And the sense of responsibility alone conveys a certain amount of comfort and
                    hope. One can imagine many a sinful mother,
                    who, for the child’s sake, would learn to hate the sin, and to make to the poor
                    innocent the only atonement possible, by giving it what is better even than
                    stainless birth—a virtuous bringing?up. One can conceive such a woman taking her
                    baby in her arms, and starting afresh to face the world—made bold by a love
                    which has no taint in it, and cheered by the knowledge that no human being can
                    take from her either this love, or its duties, or its rewards.
                For it rests with herself alone, the comfort she may derive from, and the honour
                    in which she may be held by, her child. A mother’s subsequent conduct and
                    character might give a son as much pride in her, and in the nameless parentage
                    which he owes her, as in any long lawful line 
                        “Whose ignoble blood
                        Has crept through scoundrels ever since the flood.”
                     Even a daughter might live to say: “Mother, do not grieve; I had rather have had you, just as you are, than any mother I
                    know. It has been better, for me at least, than if you had married my
                    father.”
                I have written thus much, and yet, after all, it seems but “words, words, words.”
                    Everywhere around us we see women falling, fallen, and we cannot help them; we
                    cannot make them feel the hideousness of sin, the peace and strength of that
                    cleanness of soul which is not afraid of anything in earth or heaven; we cannot
                    force upon their minds the possibility of return, after ever so long wanderings,
                    to those pleasant paths out of which there is no peace and no strength for
                    either man or woman; and in order to this return is needed—for both alike—not so
                    much outside help, as inward repentance.
                All I can do—all, I fear, that any one can do by mere speech—is to impress upon
                    every woman, and chiefly upon those who, reared innocently in safe homes, view
                    the wicked world without, somewhat like gazers
                    at a show or spectators at a battle—shocked, wondering, perhaps pitying a
                    little, but not understanding at all—that this repentance is possible. Also,
                    that once having returned to a chaste life, a woman’s former life should never
                    once be “cast up” against her; that she should be allowed to resume, if not her
                    pristine position, at least one that is full of usefulness, pleasantness, and
                    respect—a respect, the amount of which must be determined by her own daily
                    conduct. She should be judged—as, indeed, human wisdom alone has a right to
                    judge, in all cases—solely by what she is now, and not by what she has been.
                    That judgment may be, ought to be, stern and fixed as justice itself with regard
                    to her present, and even her past, so far as concerns the crime committed; but
                    it ought never to take the law into its own hands towards the criminal, who, for
                    all it knows, may have long since become less a criminal than a sufferer. Virtue
                    degrades herself, and loses every vestige of
                    her power, when her dealings with Vice sank into a mere matter of individual
                    opinion, personal dislike, or selfish fear of harm. For all offences,
                    punishment, retributive and inevitable, must come; but punishment is one thing,
                    revenge is another. ONE only, who is Omniscient as well
                    as Omnipotent, can declare, “Vengeance is Mine.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XII.
                Growing Old.
                
                    
                        “‘Do ye think of the days that are gone, Jeanie,
                        As ye sit by your fire at night?
                        Do ye wish that the morn would bring back the time,
                        When your heart and your step were so light?’
                        ‘I think of the days that are gone, Robin,
                        And of all that I joyed in then;
                        But the brightest that ever arose on me,
                        I have never wished back again.’”
                    
                
                GROWING old! A time we talk of, and jest or moralise over, but find
                    almost impossible to realise—at least to ourselves. In others, we can see its
                    approach clearer: yet even then we are slow to recognise it. “What, Miss
                    So?and?so looking old, did you say? Impossible! she is quite a young person: only a year older than I—and
                    that would make her just .... Bless me! I am forgetting how times goes on.
                    Yes,”—with a faint deprecation which truth forbids you to contradict, and
                    politeness to notice,—“I suppose we are neither of us so young as we used to
                    be.”
                Without doubt, it is a trying crisis in a woman’s life—a single woman
                    particularly—when she begins to suspect she is “not so young as she used to be;”
                    that, after crying “Wolf” ever since the respectable maturity of seventeen—as
                    some young ladies are fond of doing, to the extreme amusement of their
                    friends—the grim wolf, old age, is actually showing his teeth in the distance;
                    and no courteous blindness on the part of these said friends, no alarmed
                    indifference on her own, can neutralise the fact that he is, if still far off,
                    in sight. And, however charmingly poetical he may appear to sweet
                    fourteen?and?a?half, who writes melancholy verses about “I wish I were again a
                    child,” or merry three?and?twenty, who
                    preserves in silver paper “my first grey hair,” old age, viewed as a near
                    approaching reality, is—quite another thing.
                To feel that you have had your fair half at least of the ordinary terms of years
                    allotted to mortals; that you have no right to expect to be any handsomer, or
                    stronger, or happier than you are now; that you have climbed to the summit of
                    life, whence the next step must necessarily be decadence;—ay, though you do not
                    feel it, though the air may be as fresh, and the view as grand—still, you know
                    that it is so. Slower or faster, you are going down?hill. To those who go
                    “hand?in?hand,” 
                        “And sleep thegither at the foot,”
                     it may be a safer and sweeter descent; but I am writing for those who have
                    to make the descent alone.
                It is not a pleasant descent at the beginning. When you find at parties that you
                    are not asked to dance as much as formerly,
                    and your partners are chiefly stout, middle?aged gentlemen, and slim lads, who
                    blush terribly and require a great deal of drawing out;—when you are “dear”?ed
                    and patronised by stylish young chits, who were in their cradles when you were a
                    grown woman; or when some boy, who was your plaything in petticoats, has the
                    impertinence to look over your head, bearded and grand, or even to consult you
                    on his love?affairs;—when you find your acquaintance delicately abstaining from
                    the term “old maid,” in your presence, or immediately qualifying it by an eager
                    panegyric on the solitary sisterhood; when servants address you as “Ma’am,”
                    instead of “Miss;” and if you are at all stout and comfortable?looking, strange
                    shopkeepers persist in making out your bills to “Mrs. Blank,” and pressing upon
                    your notice toys and perambulators.
                Rather trying, too, when, in speaking of yourself as a “girl”—which, from long
                    habit, you un? wittingly do—you detect a
                    covert smile on the face of your interlocutor; or,led by chance excitement to
                    deport yourself in an ultra?youthful manner, some instinct warns you that you
                    are making yourself ridiculous. Or catching in some strange looking?glass the
                    face that you are too familiar with to notice much, ordinarily, you suddenly
                    become aware that it is not a young face; that it will never be a
                    young face again; that it will gradually alter and alter, until the known face
                    of your girlhood, whether plain or pretty, loved or disliked, admired or
                    despised, will have altogether vanished—nay, is vanished: look as you will, you
                    cannot see it any more.
                There is no denying the fact, and it ought to silence many an ill?natured remark
                    upon those unlucky ones who insist on remaining “young ladies of a certain
                    age,”—that with most people the passing from maturity to middle age is so
                    gradual, as to be almost imperceptible to the individual concerned. It is very
                        difficult for a woman to recognise that
                    she is growing old; and to many—nay, to all, more or less—this recognition
                    cannot but be fraught with considerable pain. Even the most frivolous are
                    somewhat to be pitied, when, not conducting themselves as passées, because they really do not think it, they
                    expose themselves to all manner of misconstructions by still determinedly
                    grasping that fair sceptre of youth, which they never suspect is now the merest
                    “rag of sovereignty”—sovereignty deposed.
                Nor can the most sensible woman fairly put aside her youth, with all it has
                    enjoyed, or lost, or missed; its hopes and interests, omissions and commissions,
                    doings and sufferings; satisfied that it is henceforth to be considered as a
                    thing gone by—without a momentary spasm of the heart. Young people forget this
                    as completely as they forget that they themselves may one day experience the
                    same, or they would not be so ready to laugh at even the foolishest of those foolish old virgins who deems herself
                    juvenile long after everybody else has ceased to share in the pleasing delusion,
                    and thereby makes both useless and ridiculous that season of early autumn which
                    ought to be the most peaceful, abundant, safe, and sacred time in a woman’s
                    whole existence. They would not, with the proverbial harsh judgment of youth,
                    scorn so cruelly those poor little absurdities, of which the unlucky person who
                    indulges therein is probably quite unaware—merely dresses as she has always
                    done, and carries on the harmless coquetries and minauderies of her teens, unconscious how exceedingly ludicrous
                    they appear in a lady of—say forty! Yet in this sort of exhibition, which
                    society too often sees and enjoys, any honest heart cannot but often feel, that
                    of all the actors engaged in it the one who plays the least objectionable and
                    disgraceful part is she who only makes a fool of herself.
                Alas! why should she do it? Why cling so
                    desperately to the youth that will not stay? and which, after all, is not such a
                    very precious or even a happy thing. Why give herself such a world of trouble to
                    deny or conceal her exact age, when half her acquaintance must either know it or
                    guess it, or be supremely indifferent about it? Why appear
                        dressed—undressed, cynics would say—after the pattern of her
                    niece, the belle of the ball; annoying the eye with beauty either half withered
                    or long overblown, and which in its prime would have been all the lovelier for
                    more concealment?
                In this matter of dress, a word or two. There are two styles of costume which
                    ladies past their première jeuness are most
                    prone to fall into: one hardly knows which is the worst. Perhaps, though, it is
                    the ultra?juvenile—such as the insane juxtaposition of a yellow skin and white
                    tarlatane, or the anomalous adorning of grey hair with artificial flowers. It
                    may be questioned whether at any age beyond twenty a ball?costume is really becoming; but after thirty, it
                    is the very last sort of attire that a lady can assume with impunity. It is said
                    that you can only make yourself look younger by dressing a little older than you
                    really are; and truly I have seen many a woman look withered and old in the
                    customary evening?dress which, being unmarried, she thinks necessary to shiver
                    in, who would have appeared fair as a sunshiny October day if she would only
                    have done Nature the justice to assume, in her autumn time, an autumnal livery.
                    If she would only have the sense to believe that grey hair was meant to soften
                    wrinkles and brighten faded cheeks, giving the same effect for which our
                    youthful grandmothers wore powder; that flimsy, light?coloured dresses,
                    fripperied over with trimmings, only suit airy figures and active motions; that
                    a sober?tinted substantial gown and a pretty cap will any day take away ten
                    years from a lady’s appearance;—above all, if she would observe this one grand rule of the toilet, always advisable, but
                    after youth indispensable—that though good personal “points” are by no means a
                    warrant for undue exhibition thereof, no point that is positively unbeautiful
                    ought ever, by any pretense of fashion or custom, to be shown.
                The other sort of dress, which, it must be owned, is less frequent, is the dowdy
                    style. People say—though not very soon—“Oh, I am not a young woman now; it does
                    not signify what I wear.” Whether they quite believe it is another question; but
                    they say it—and act upon it when laziness or indifference prompts. Foolish
                    women! they forget, that if we have reason at any time more than another to mind
                    our “looks,” it is when our looks are departing from us. Youth can do almost
                    anything in the toilet—middle?age cannot; yet is none the less bound to present
                    to her friends and society the most pleasing exterior she can. Easy is it to do
                    this when we have those about us who love us,
                    and take notice of what we wear, and in whose eyes we would like to appear
                    gracious and lovely to the last, so far as nature allows: not easy when things
                    are otherwise. This, perhaps, is the reason why we see so many unmarried women
                    grow careless and “old?fashioned” in their dress—“What does it signify?—nobody
                    cares.”
                I think a woman ought to care a little—a very little—for herself. Without
                    preaching up vanity, or undue waste of time over that most thankless duty of
                    adorning one’s self for nobody’s pleasure in particular—is it not still a right
                    and becoming feeling to have some respect for that personality which, as well as
                    our soul, Heaven gave us to make the best of? And is it not our duty—considering
                    the great number of uncomely people there are in the world—to lessen it by each
                    of us making herself as uncomely as she can?
                
                Because a lady ceases to dress youthfully, she has no excuse for dressing
                    untidily; and though having found out that one general style suits both her
                    person, her taste, and her convenience, she keeps to it, and generally prefers
                    moulding the fashion to herself, rather than herself to the fashion,—still, that
                    is no reason why she should try the risible nerves of one generation by showing
                    up to them the out?of?date costume of another. Neatness invariable; hues
                    carefully harmonised, and as time advances, subsiding into a general unity of
                    tone, softening and darkening in colour, until black, white, and grey alone
                    remain, as the suitable garb for old age: these things are every woman’s bounden
                    duty to observe as long as she lives. No poverty, grief, sickness, or
                    loneliness—those mental causes which act so strongly upon the external life—can
                    justify any one (to use a phrase probably soon to be obsolete, when charity and
                        common? sense have left the rising
                    generation no Fifth of November) in thus voluntarily “making a Guy of
                    herself.”
                That slow, fine, and yet perceptible change of mien and behaviour, natural and
                    proper to advancing years, is scarcely reducible to rule at all. It is but the
                    outer reflection of an inward process of the mind. We only discover its full
                    importance by the absence of it, as noticeable in a person “who has such very
                    ‘young’ manners,” who falls into raptures of enthusiasm, and expresses loudly
                    every emotion of her nature. Such a character, when real, is unobjectionable,
                    nay, charming in extreme youth; but the great improbability of its being real
                    makes it rather ludicrous, if not disagreeable, in mature age, when the passions
                    die out or are quieted down, the sense of happiness itself is calm, and the
                    fullest, tenderest tide of which the loving heart is capable, may be described
                    by those “still waters” which “run deep.”
                
                To “grow old gracefully,” as one, who truly has exemplified her theory, has
                    written and expressed it, is a good and beautiful thing; to grow old worthily, a
                    better. And the first effort to that end is not only to recognise, but to become
                    personally reconciled to the fact of youth’s departure; to see, or, if not
                    seeing, to have faith in, the wisdom of that which we call change, yet which is
                    in truth progression; to follow openly and fearlessly, in ourselves and our
                    daily life, the same law which makes spring pass into summer, summer into
                    autumn, autumn into winter, preserving an especial beauty and fitness in each of
                    the four.
                Yes, if women could only believe it, there is a wonderful beauty even in growing
                    old. The charm of expression arising from softened temper or ripened intellect,
                    often amply atones for the loss of form and colouring; and, consequently, to
                    those who never could boast either of these latter, years give much more than
                    they take away. A sensitive person often
                    requires half a lifetime to get thoroughly used to this corporeal machine, to
                    attain a wholesome indifference both to its defects and perfections, and to
                    learn at last, what nobody would acquire from any teacher but experience, that
                    it is the mind alone which is of any consequence; that with a good temper,
                    sincerity, and a moderate stock of brains—or even the two former only—any sort
                    of body can in time be made useful, respectable, and agreeable, as a
                    travelling?dress for the soul. Many a one, who was absolutely plain in youth,
                    thus grows pleasant and well?looking in declining years. You will hardly ever
                    find anybody, not ugly in mind, who is repulsively ugly in person after middle
                    years.
                So with the character. If a woman is ever to be wise or sensible, the chances are
                    that she will have become so somewhere between thirty and forty. Her natural
                    good qualities will have de? veloped; her evil
                    ones will have either been partly subdued, or have overgrown her like rampant
                    weeds; for however we may talk about people being “not a whit altered”—“just the
                    same as ever”—not one of us is, or can be, for long together, exactly the same;
                    no more than that the body we carry with us is the identical body we were born
                    with, or the one we supposed ours seven years ago. Therein, as in our spiritual
                    self which inhabits it, goes on a perpetual change and renewal; if this ceased,
                    the result would be, not permanence, but corruption. In moral and mental, as
                    well as physical growth, it is impossible to remain stationary; if we do not
                    advance, we retrograde. Talk of “too late to improve”—“too old to learn,”
                    &c.! Idle words! A human being should be improving with every day of a
                    lifetime; and will probably have to go on learning throughout all the ages of
                    immortality.
                
                And this brings me to one among the number of what I may term “the pleasures of
                    growing old.”
                At our outset, “to love” is the verb we are most prone to conjugate; afterwards
                    we discover, that though the first, it is by no means the sole verb in the
                    grammar of life, or even the only one that implies (vide Lennie or Murray) “to be, to do, or to suffer.” To know—that
                    is, to acquire, to find out, to be able to trace and appreciate the causes of
                    things, gradually becomes a necessity, an exquisite delight. We begin to taste
                    the full meaning of that promise which describes the other world as a place
                    where “we shall know even as we are known.” Nay, even this world, with all its
                    burdens and pains, presents itself in a phase of abstract interest entirely
                    apart from ourselves and our small lot therein, whether joyful or sorrowful. We
                    take pleasure in tracing the large workings of all things—more clearly
                    apprehended as we cease to expect, or conduct
                    ourselves as if we expected, that Providence will as Deus ex machinâ for our own private benefit. We are able to pass
                    out of our own small daily sphere, and take interest in the marvellous
                    government of the universe; to see the grand workings of cause and effect, the
                    educing of good out of apparent evil, the clearing away of the knots in tangled
                    destinies, general or individual, the wonderful agency of time, change and
                    progress in ourselves, in those surrounding us, and in the world at large. We
                    have lived just long enough to catch a faint tone or two of the large harmonies
                    of nature and fate—to trace the apparent plot and purpose of our own life and
                    that of others, sufficiently to make us content to sit still and see the play
                    played out. As I once heard said, “We feel we should like to go on living, were
                    it only out of curiosity.”
                In small minds, this feeling expends itself in meddling, gossiping,
                    scandal?mongering; but such are only the
                    abortive developments of a right noble quality, which, properly guided, results
                    in benefits incalculable to the individual and to society. For, undoubtedly, the
                    after?half of life is the best working?time. Beautiful is youth’s enthusiasm,
                    and grand are its achievements; but the most solid and permanent good is done by
                    the persistent strength and wide experience of middle age.
                A principal agent in this is a blessing which rarely comes till then—contentment:
                    not mere resignation, a passive acquiescence in what cannot be removed, but
                    active contentment; bought, and cheaply, too, by a personal share in that daily
                    amount of joy and pain, which the longer one lives the more one sees is pretty
                    equally balanced in all lives. Young people are happy—enjoy ecstatically, either
                    in prospect or fruition, “the top of life;” but they are very seldom contented.
                    It is not possible. Not till the cloudy maze is half travelled through, and
                        we begin to see the object and purpose of
                    it, can we really be content.
                One great element in this—nor let us think shame to grant that which God and
                    nature also allow—consists in the doubtful question, “To marry or not to marry?”
                    being by this time generally settled; the world’s idle curiosity or impertinent
                    meddling therewith having come to an end; which alone is a great boon to any
                    woman. Her relations with the other sex imperceptibly change their character, or
                    slowly decline. Though there are exceptions, of old lovers who have become
                    friends, and friends whom no new love could make swerve from the fealty of
                    years, still it usually happens so. If a woman wishes to retain her sway over
                    mankind—not an unnatural wish, even the good and amiable, who have been long
                    used to attention and admiration in society—she must do it by means quite
                    different from any she has hitherto employed. Even then, be her wit ever so sparkling, her influence ever so pure
                    and true, she will often find her listener preferring bright eyes to
                    intellectual conversation, and the satisfaction of his mind. And who can blame
                    him?
                Pleasant as men’s society undoubtedly is; honourable, well?informed gentlemen,
                    who meet a lady on the easy neutral ground of mutual esteem, and take more pains
                    to be agreeable to her than, unfortunately, her own sex frequently do; they are,
                    after all, but men. Not one of them is really necessary to a woman’s happiness,
                    except the one whom, by this time, she has probably either met, or
                    lost, or found. Therefore, however uncomplimentary this may sound to those
                    charming and devoted creatures, which of course they always are in ladies’—young
                    ladies’—society, a lady past her youth may be well content to let them go before
                    they depart of their own accord. I fear the
                    waning coquette, the ancient beauty, as well as the ordinary woman, who has had
                    her fair share of both love and liking, must learn and show by her demeanour she
                    has learned that the only way to preserve the unfeigned respect of the opposite
                    sex, is by letting them see that she can do without either their attention or
                    their admiration.
                Another source of contentment, which in youth’s fierce self?dependence it would
                    be vain to look for—is the recognition of one’s own comparative unimportance and
                    helplessness in the scale of fate. We begin by thinking we can do everything,
                    and that everything rests with us to do; the merest trifle frets and disturbs
                    us; the restless heart wearies itself with anxieties over its own future, the
                    tender one over the futures of those dear to it. Many a young face do I see
                    wearing the indescribable Martha?look—“troubled about many
                    things”—whom I would fain remind of the
                    anecdote of the ambassador in China. To him, tossing sleepless on his bed, his
                    old servant said:
                “Sir, may I put to you, and will you answer, three questions? First, did not the
                    Almighty govern this world very well before you came into it?”
                “Of course.”
                “And will He not also do the same when you are gone out of it?”
                “I know that.”
                “Then, do you not think, sir, that He is able to govern it while you are in
                    it?”
                The ambassador smiled assent, turned round, and slept calmly.
                Alas! it is the slowest and most painful lesson that Faith has to learn—Faith,
                    not Indifference—to do steadfastly and patiently all that lies to her hand; and
                    there leave it, believing that the Almighty is able to govern His own world.
                It is said that we suffer less as we grow older
                        ,
                        
                     that pain, like joy, becomes dulled
                    by repetition, or by this callousness that comes with years. In one sense this
                    is true. If there is no joy like the joy of youth, the rapture of a first love,
                    the thrill of a first ambition, God’s great mercy has also granted that there is
                    no anguish like youth’s pain; so total, so hopeless, blotting out earth and
                    heaven, falling down upon the whole being like a stone. This never comes in
                    after life, because the sufferer, if he or she have lived to any purpose at all,
                    has learned that God never meant any human being to be crushed under any
                    calamity like a blindworm under a stone.
                For lesser evils, the fact that our interests gradually take a wider range,
                    allows more scope for the healing power of compensation. Also our strongest
                    idiosyncrasies, our loves, hates, sympathies and prejudices, having assumed a
                    more rational and softened shape, we do not present so many angles for the rough
                    attrition of the world. Likewise, with the eye of that Faith already referred to, we have come to view life
                    in its entirety, instead of agonisingly puzzling over its disjoined parts, which
                    are not, and were never meant to be, made wholly clear to mortal eye. And that
                    calm twilight, which by nature’s kindly law so soon begins to creep over the
                    past, throws over all things a softened colouring which altogether transcends
                    and forbids regret. I suppose there is hardly any woman with a good heart and a
                    clear conscience, who does not feel, on the whole, the infinite truth of the
                    verses at the head of this paper, and of the other two verses which I here
                    add—partly because a pleasant rhyme is a wholesome thing to cling about the
                    memory, and partly in the hope that some one may own or claim this anonymous
                    song:— 
                        
                            “‘Do ye think of the hopes that are gone, Jeanie,
                            As ye sit by your fire at night?
                            Do ye gather them up as they faded fast
                            Like buds with an early blight?’
                            
                            ‘I think of the hopes that are gone, Robin,
                            And I mourn not their stay was fleet;
                            For they fell as the leaves of the red rose fall,
                            And were even in falling, sweet.’
                        
                        
                            ‘Do yet think of the friends that are gone, Jeanie,
                            As ye sit by your fire at night?
                            Do ye wish they were round you again once more
                            By the hearth that they made so bright?’
                            ‘I think of the friends that are gone, Robin,
                            They are dear to my heart as then:
                            But the best and the dearest among them all
                            I have never wished back again!’”
                        
                    
                Added to all these reasons, contentment, faith, cheerfulness, and the natural
                    calming down of both passions and emotions, which give a woman greater capacity
                    for usefulness in middle life than in any previous portion of her existence, is
                    another—her greater independence. By the time she has arrived at the half of
                    those three?score?years?and?ten which form the largest available limit of active
                    life, she will generally have become, in the best sense of the term, her own
                    mistress. I do not mean as regards exemption
                    from family ties and restrictions, for this sort of liberty is sadder than
                    bondage, but she will be mistress over herself—she will have learned to
                    understand herself, mentally and bodily. Nor is this last a small advantage, for
                    it often takes years to comprehend, and act upon when comprehended, the physical
                    peculiarities of one’s own constitution. Much valetudinarianism among women
                    arises from ignorance or neglect of the commonest sanitary laws; and
                    indifference to that grand preservative of a healthy body, a well?controlled,
                    healthy mind. Both of these are more attainable in middle age than youth; and,
                    therefore, the sort of happiness they bring—a solid, useful, available
                    happiness—is more in her power then, than at any earlier period.
                And why? Because she has ceased to think principally of herself and her own
                    pleasures; because, as I tried to show in a former chapter, happiness itself has
                    become to her an accidental thing, which the good God may give or withhold as He sees most fit for her—most adapted to
                    the work for which He means to use her in her generation. This conviction of
                    being at once an active and a passive agent—self?working, worked through, and
                    worked upon—is surely consecration enough to form the peace, nay, the happiness,
                    of any good woman’s life: enough, be it ever so solitary, to sustain until the
                    end.
                In what manner such a conviction should be carried out, no one individual can
                    venture to advise. Women’s work is, in this age, if undefined, almost unlimited,
                    when the woman herself so chooses. She alone can be a law unto herself;
                    deciding, acting according to the circumstances in which her lot is placed.
                And have we not many who do so act? Women of property, whose name is a proverb
                    for generous and wise charities—whose riches, carefully guided, flow into
                    innumerable channels, freshening the whole land. Women of rank and influence,
                    who use both, or lay aside both, in the
                    simplest humility, for labours of love which level, or rather raise, all classes
                    to one common sphere of womanhood. And many others, of whom the world knows
                    nothing, who have taken the wisest course that any unmarried woman can take, and
                    made for themselves a home and a position: some, as the ladies Bountiful of a
                    country neighbourhood; some, as elder sisters, on whom has fallen the bringing
                    up of whole families, and to whom has tacitly been accorded the headship of the
                    same, by the love and respect of more than one generation thereof; and some as
                    writers, painters, and professional women generally, who make the most of the
                    special gift apparently allotted to them, believing that, be it great or small,
                    it is not theirs either to lose or to waste, but that they must one day render
                    up to the Master His own, with usury.
                Would that, instead of educating our young girls with the notion that they are to
                    be wives, or nothing—matrons, with an acknowledged position and duties, or with no position and duties
                    at all—we could instil into them the principle that, above and before all, they
                    are to be women—women, whose character is of their own making, and
                    whose lot lies in their own hands. Not through any foolish independence of
                    mankind, or adventurous misogamy: let people prate as they will, the woman was
                    never born yet who would not cheerfully and proudly give herself and her whole
                    destiny into a worthy hand, at the right time, and under fitting
                    circumstances—that is, when her whole heart and conscience accompanied and
                    sanctified the gift. But marriage ought always to be a question not of
                    necessity, but choice. Every girl ought to be taught that a hasty, loveless
                    union, stamps upon her as foul dishonour as one of those connexions which omit
                    the legal ceremony altogether; and that, however pale, dreary, and toilsome a
                    single life may be, unhappy married life must be tenfold worse—an ever?haunting
                    temptation, an incur? able regret, a torment
                    from which there is no escape but death. There is many a bridal?chamber over
                    which out to be placed no other inscription than that well?known one over the
                    gate of Dante’s hell: 
                        “Lasciate ogni speranza voi chi entrate.”
                     God forbid that any woman, in whose heart is any sense of real marriage,
                    with all its sanctity, beauty, and glory, should ever be driven to enter such an
                    accursed door!
                But after the season of growing old, there comes, to a few, the time of old age;
                    the withered face, the failing strength, the bodily powers gradually sinking
                    into incapacity for both usefulness and enjoyment. I will not say but that this
                    season has its sad aspect to a woman who has never married; and who, as her own
                    generation dies out, probably has long since died out, retains no longer, nor
                    can expect to retain, any flesh?and?blood claim upon a single human being. When all the downward ties which give to the
                    decline of life a rightful comfort, and the interest in the new generation which
                    brightens it with a perpetual hope, are to her either unknown, or indulged in
                    chiefly on one side. Of course there are exceptions; where an aunt has been
                    almost like a mother, and a loving and loveable great?aunt is as important a
                    personage as any grandmother. But I speak of things in general. It is a
                    condition to which a single woman must make up her mind, that the close of her
                    days will be more or less solitary.
                Yet there is a solitude which old age feels to be as natural and satisfying as
                    that rest which seems such an irksomeness to youth, but which gradually grows
                    into the best blessing of our lives; and there is another solitude, so full of
                    peace and hope, that it is like Jacob’s sleep in the wilderness, at the foot of
                    the ladder of angels. 
                        “All things are less dreadful than they seem.”
                     And it may be that the extreme loneliness
                    which, viewed afar off, appears to an unmarried woman as one of the saddest of
                    the inevitable results of her lot, shall by that time have lost all its pain,
                    and be regarded but as the quiet, dreamy hour “between the lights;” when the
                    day’s work is done, and we lean back, closing our eyes, to think it all over
                    before we finally go to rest, or to look forward, in faith and hope, unto the
                    Coming Morning.
                A finished life—a life which has made the best of all the materials granted to
                    it, and through which, be its web dark or bright, its pattern clear or clouded,
                    can now be traced plainly the hand of the Great Designer; surely this is worth
                    living for? And though at its end it may be somewhat lonely; though a servant’s
                    and not a daughter’s arm may guide the failing step; though most likely it will
                    be strangers only who come about the dying bed, close the eyes that no husband
                    ever kissed, and draw the shroud kindly over
                    the poor withered breast where no child’s head has ever lain; still, such a life
                    is not to be pitied, for it is a completed life. It has fulfilled its appointed
                    course, and returns to the Giver of all breath, pure as He gave it. Nor will He
                    forget it when He counteth up His jewels.
                On earth, too, for as much and as long as the happy dead, to whom all things long
                    have been made equal, need remembering, such a life will not have been lived in
                    vain: 
                        “Only the memory of the just
                        Smells sweet, and blossoms in the dust.”
                    
            
            THE END.
            London: Printed by G. BARCLAY, Castle St. Leicester Sq.
        
    
