
     ----CITATION----
        Blind, Mathilde (1841-1896). Tarantella, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 372 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2003-Apr-24).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7180
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    TARANTELLA
                    A ROMANCE
                
                BY MATHILDE BLIND Author of "The Prophecy of Saint
                    Oran," and "Life of George Eliot"
                VOL I
                
                    London
                    T FISHER UNWIN
                        26 PATERNOSTER SQUARE
                
                1885
            
            
                
                CONTENTS.
                
                    BOOK I.
                    CHAPTER I. THE JAR OF HONEY. 1
                    CHAPTER II. A GERMAN COFFEE PARTY. 15
                    CHAPTER III. MOONLIGHT MYSTERIES. 25
                    CHAPTER IV. THE COUNTESS STARAJA. 36
                    CHAPTER V. LEAVE-TAKING. 45
                    CHAPTER VI. WHITSUNTIDE AT THE SILBERBURG 57
                    
                    CHAPTER VII. COMING OUT. 69
                    CHAPTER VIII. MUSICAL PICTURES. 78
                    CHAPTER IX. ELFRIDA'S BEQUEST. 86
                    CHAPTER X. LEOPOLD SONTHEIM'S CONFESSION. 97
                    CHAPTER XI. SOAP BUBBLES. 110
                    CHAPTER XII. THE FAIR. 124
                    CHAPTER XIII. ELEMENTAL MATCH-MAKING. 137
                    CHAPTER XIV. VENUS VICTRIX. 144
                
                
                    BOOK II.
                    CHAPTER XV. THE DANCE AMIDST THE RUINS. 157
                    CHAPTER XVI. THE SIRENS' ROCK. 174
                    CHAPTER XVII. THE RING. 188
                    
                    CHAPTER XVIII. SHADOW HUNTING. 199
                    CHAPTER XIX. A HIT AT LAST. 205
                    CHAPTER XX. LOST. 213
                    CHAPTER XXI. FOUND. 220
                    CHAPTER XXII. FLIGHT. 225
                
            
        
        
            TARANTELLA.
            
                
                BOOK I.
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    THE JAR OF HONEY.
                    IT was the sweetest month of the sweet young year! The month when the earth
                        grows more spacious because the light clouds have soared to such dizzy
                        heights in the infinitely receding blue of heaven. The sun as yet shines
                        with a tempered ardour, almost as if from tenderness for the soft young
                        things too weak to bear the full stress of his beams. Every little wind then
                        wandering under heaven is sweet, like the message of some loved one dwelling
                        afar. Stray sunbeams thrill us with tremors of joy, and in the blithe carol
                        of returning birds the yearning heart finds a happy augury of reunion with
                        its dear departed. O blessed spring days! is there anything on earth
                        comparable to the  innocent delight with
                        which you inspire us? And what adds such a gracious charm to this pleasure
                        is the reflection that the whole world is made an equally welcome guest to
                        the inexhaustible feast thus spread out on the green gladsome earth. Spring,
                        in its way, is as great a leveller as death. The poor, the aged, the unhappy
                        are in its sight as worthy to be caressed by the youngest sunbeam, by the
                        most fragrant of breezes, as their more favoured fellow-creatures.
                    It is to the former, indeed, O Spring, that is reserved the subtlest
                        enchantment of thy smiles. For the happy can never experience to the full
                        the healing strength which resides in thy influence. It is to the lonely,
                        the weak, the unfortunate, those whom man in his reckless search after power
                        and pleasure has roughly thrust from his path, to whom alone is revealed
                        that ineffable tenderness which thy sunshine manifests to the sprouting
                        green leaves and the frail flowers of the youngling year. No; they know not
                        the infinite sweetness of thy balmy breath, O spring, who have never arisen
                        out of grief as from the dark vault of a sepulchre, and, with the dews of
                        anguish yet fresh on their brow, seen the gleam of the April sun athwart the
                        thaw of falling tears. With how shy, and tremulous, and fearful a joy, lest
                        even in the apprehension it fade, do they humbly acknowledge that even for
                        them a glory yet shines in the fugitive hours, and a hope is blown from the
                        peaks of the morning. They and joy then meet like dear friends who parting
                        in anger have long dwelt apart and now, at the moment of final
                        reconciliation, hang back a little with half-averted eyes ere with a low cry
                        they fall into each other's arms.
                    
                    Yes! there was no doubt about it, spring had come at last. Even D——, that
                        most sleepy of South German towns, shook off its lethargy and became on a
                        sudden preternaturally alive with light and laughter. For in upon every
                        street shone and nodded the vine-clad hills, their aërial azure fading away
                        into that of the sky; the music of running waters, so long congealed in the
                        fountains, filled the public place once more with a murmur, sounding like an
                        accompaniment to the blithe chatter of girls where they stood leisurely
                        filling their pitchers with the sparkling water; birds flitted from roof to
                        roof, chirping and twittering till the very atmosphere seemed to transform
                        itself into song; and high above the roofs, higher than any bird's flight,
                        soared the luminous white clouds whose shadows fled dreamlike across the
                        surface of the enfolding hills.
                    It is in the great sunlit market-place, however, that the life of the town
                        converges; a gay, multicoloured scene, of which the ancient Minster, with
                        its great grave masses cowing the sunshine where it falls, forms the
                        background; in and out among the tapering minor spires flit grey, pink-eyed
                        pigeons, settling every now and then on the projections of the
                        quaintly-carved capitals; while little dæmons, grinning from gargoyles and
                        window bosses, appear to be making fantastic grimaces at the crowd eagerly
                        buying and selling below. Judging from these impressive preparations,
                        whatever else might move at a sluggish pace in the worthy citizens'
                        organisms, their digestive apparatus was anything but sluggish, and almost
                        seemed to have achieved the desideratum of perpetual motion.
                    What with the chaffering, chattering, cheapening of  maids, matrons, and market-women, the cackling of
                        geese, grunting of pigs, and crowing of cocks, the rumbling of carts, and
                        the protracted shrillness of infants' cries placed in undignified positions
                        by excited mammas, while engaged in hotly-contested bargains, the confusion
                        of tongues equalled that of a Babel in miniature. The most trifling purchase
                        was seemingly a feat not to be attempted without the exercise of superior
                        tactics. For a cook of the highest grade goes to market with a sense of
                        responsibility but little inferior to that of a general on the eve of a
                        battle. And, after carefully-planned attacks, sham retreats,
                        delicately-executed skirmishes, and final onslaught, how triumphant is the
                        homeward march of the conquering heroine, attended by the cackling, hissing,
                        and squealing of her captured booty!
                    Instead of so important a personage, however, let us rather follow the
                        respectable housewife; Frau Lichtenfeld, who, engaged in voluble talk with
                        her gossip Frau Obertribunalprocurator Hopfengärtner, makes her way
                        homewards on this April morning of the year 1846. After parting from her
                        companion, the first named lady still proceeds along the Silberstrasse the
                        main thoroughfare of D——, till she reaches the last house of the town,
                        standing by itself in a garden some paces back from the high road, which
                        here assumed quite a rural character.
                    It was a spreading house with high grey roof, and windows on each side of the
                        door; its gay green shutters, harmonizing with the cream-coloured walls,
                        were either shut, or fastened back by revolving iron clamps. At its back
                        stretched a long grassy garden,  left to
                        grow much at its own sweet will, and interspersed with fruit-trees, now
                        covered with buds that seemed on tiptoe to burst into blossom.
                    Just as the middle-aged woman enters at the front door, a young girl standing
                        at the end of this garden is trying with all her might to unlatch the bolt
                        of the lumbering old garden gate, grown rusty during the long disuse of
                        winter.
                    Before she has succeeded, however, in thrusting back the bolt, a tiny child
                        issues from the house, and darts at full speed down the garden, its golden
                        confusion of hair gleaming above the grass like a living sunflower. "Mina,
                        Mina," it calls out in childish treble, "you have forgotten the jar for the
                        honey, and mother's just back from market and coming after you!"
                    "Mina, Mina, you have forgotten the jar for the honey!" calls out in harsher
                        tones of remonstrance Frau Professorinn Lichtenfeld, coming excitedly along
                        the path, and flourishing the article in question to and fro. "I declare,"
                        she goes on, "little Lulu here, though she's but three years old, God bless
                        her, will soon be the more sensible of the two; but then, she's not 'a Hans
                        gape i' the air!'"
                    With these words she puts the jar in the girl's basket, and undoing the gate
                        for her slightly pushes her forth. She has scarcely shut the gate, however,
                        before she shouts after the retreating figure: "Whatever you do, Mina,
                        remember your grandmother's rheumatic cordial."
                    Whether Mina heard this exhortation is doubtful, as in her eagerness to see
                        her grandmother she was already many steps on her way. Nor did she in any
                             marked degree relax her speed till,
                        towards noon, she reached a diminutive house situated on the slope of one of
                        the lower of that range of hills which encircled the town.
                    This cot, standing in its own vineyard, and partly hidden by a row of
                        enormous beehives, was the home of Mina's grandmother. Here the happiest
                        hours of her childhood had been passed, and it seemed but yesterday she had
                        fancied it to be a half-way house to heaven. Why, had she not actually once
                        believed the story that the sunflowers blazing in a row there were baby suns
                        put out to nurse, till they should be in a fit condition for their heavenly
                        duties, and taken it into her head that the swarms of bees were truant stars
                        who had run away from their celestial tasks to make love to the flowers of
                        earth?
                    After several ineffectual raps, the door was at length opened by a wizened
                        yet hale old woman, whose shrunken countenance disappeared behind the
                        voluminous starched frills of a huge mob-cap. At sight of her favourite
                        grandchild, her still bright eyes blinked with joy athwart their environment
                        of countless wrinkles.
                    "Grandmother," cried Mina, raising her voice to its highest pitch, "mother
                        and Lulu and all the boys have sent more love than I found it possible to
                        carry up the hill. And mother sends you a fresh supply of her cordial for
                        rheumatism, which is stronger than usual, she says. Hans and Conrad asked me
                        to bring you this fish which they caught yesterday." (A perch about the
                        length of a finger, looking very dead, in a cabbage leaf.) "And Hans begs
                        you will keep all caterpillars with crimson 
                        spots on a flesh-coloured ground with the leaves they feed on till he can
                        come for them in his holidays; while Conrad entreats you will not forget
                        that it is his turn to climb the big cherry tree. Lulu tore herself from
                        this best beloved of dolls because she says you will find her such good
                        company in bed." (That the doll had lost its hair and one arm possibly
                        enhanced the sacrifice.) "And, let me see—dear me—I have quite forgotten the
                        messages of the other boys," broke off Mina, with her peculiar silvery
                        little laugh; then added, in a sweet, deprecating way, "And I, granny, have
                        brought you nothing—nothing at all."
                    "You have brought me yourself, little love—by far the best message and
                        medicine of all," retorted the old lady, with the sort of expression one has
                        when inhaling the fragrance of a fresh-gathered bunch of roses. "But here I
                        stand chattering," she exclaimed, "quite forgetting that my pet has had a
                        long, fatiguing walk already, and must be quite tired by this time."
                    Therewith, the good old dame began bustling about the room, attended in all
                        her comings and goings by a dilapidated raven, who although purblind and
                        lame of one foot, hopped behind her with the grave dignity of a mute at a
                        funeral. By degrees she now extracted from a variety of cupboards, deftly
                        hidden in the walls, a number of delicacies, which, with the help of Mina,
                        were soon spread out on the snow-white tablecloth. Grandmother and
                        grandchild sat down cosily to a meal of brown bread and butter, honey,
                        preserved fruit, and a big jug brimful of cream (the former chiefly enjoying
                        it by proxy, one could see); the raven, who formed part of the company,
                        being treated with respectful awe by  Mina,
                        and regaled now and then with choicest titbits, which he persisted in
                        carrying off and hiding in dark nooks, where he thought himself safe from
                        observation.
                    When the simple feast was over Mina, from long habit, drew a footstool close
                        to her grandmother's brown leather easy-chair, and with her toes curled up
                        and her chin propped between her hands, said, in a coaxing voice, "Granny,
                        now tell us all about the past."
                    This old, old woman, whose hair was white as with the snow of eighty winters,
                        had been young once like herself and been fallen in love with! What an
                        inexhaustible romance to this young girl, who had only twice in her life
                        peeped furtively into a real downright novel! Nothing loth her grandmother
                        began from her copious stock of experience, industriously plying her
                        knitting-needles the while, and Mina, listening open-eyed, said never a word
                        till, abruptly rising from her seat, she exclaimed that she had outstayed
                        her time. The old woman now filled Mina's jar with her finest honey, adding
                        many injunctions to be careful, it being the last of the kind which she
                        possessed.
                    She remained standing in the doorway watching the receding figure of her
                        grandchild till a sunlit April shower drove her indoors. But Mina, as she
                        danced rather than walked down the hill, listened with delight to the patter
                        of the big bright raindrops, with which the sun, as if in play, pelted the
                        earth, laughing all the while in the face of the storm; presently the
                        valley, in which lay the white houses of the town, was spanned from hill to
                        hill by a mighty rainbow, while under it, 
                        across a ridge on which it dipped, a flock of sheep defiled slowly one by
                        one, thrown off in bright relief from the green, rain-sparkling slope.
                    The girl's road this time took her through a small wood, in which the
                        vegetation had just attained that stage when the trees, some still bare,
                        others just budding and blossoming, others again already covered with
                        delicate foliage, resemble more nearly a green glimmering exhalation which a
                        breath of air may dispel than an actually enduring growth of earth. This
                        effect was still further enhanced at present by that hazy bloom peculiar to
                        afternoons in spring, and which now seemed to invest the entire scene in
                        some diviner medium than that of our common atmosphere. No wonder Mina
                        lingered lovingly at every step she took, for was it not April within as
                        well as around her, and did she not feel as though suddenly roused from long
                        unconscious slumbers to the infinite beauty and mystery of the world? In the
                        hidden recesses of her heart was a stir and flutter as if there also sweet,
                        shy things were gradually unfolding themselves, so that for the first time
                        she had a dim apprehension of the profound affinity of nature around and
                        within her.
                    But this dreamy mood was soon dispelled by childish glee, when at a curve in
                        the path she came upon a dell where violets literally seemed to gush from
                        the sod, till she fancied she heard them whispering in the breeze, "Please
                        gather us, gather us!" and what could a kind-hearted damsel do after that
                        but go down on her knees, pluck them by handfuls, and knot them together in
                        a big, fragrant bunch?
                    She had scarcely achieved this to her satisfaction when  her attention was caught by a butterfly which,
                        floating past her, settled on a flower about a stone's-throw off, spreading
                        out its glowing wings as though to challenge her admiration. The young girl
                        stood quite still, scarcely venturing to breathe lest she should startle
                        this etherial creature. Then recollecting how joyfully her brother would
                        welcome so beautiful a specimen to his collection, she softly untied the
                        strings of her broad-brimmed hat, and gliding forward on tiptoe, brought it
                        suddenly down on the flower on which the butterfly had alighted. She was too
                        late, however, for, like a winged flower driven from its stem, the latter
                        hovered for some time in front of her, then settled on the trunk of a tree,
                        but flew off as she approached.
                    Thus in hot but fruitless pursuit Mina continued to run on, till she found
                        herself all at once on the brink of a pool in whose crystalline depths the
                        wood was mirroring itself like a youthful beauty smiling at herself in the
                        looking-glass. So magical, indeed, was the aspect of this canopy of trees,
                        with their soft, ruddy tassels and bright, almost golden, leaves, and its
                        transfigured reflection below, that for the moment she forgot the object of
                        her chase, and when she again looked round it had vanished!
                    Hot and breathless as she was, the girl threw herself on a low green bank
                        shelving down to the water's edge, and with her roughened curly head
                        pillowed on a cluster of hyacinths, she soon fell sound asleep. And in her
                        sleep she dreamed that she was still pursuing the butterfly she had so
                        ardently longed to capture. Only that now it was much larger, more
                        mysteriously beautiful, and that its shifting tints, scintillating with a
                        lustre  as of precious stones, faded ever
                        and anon to a silvery pallor, which flashed as suddenly into renewed
                        brilliancy, and revealed letters, words, and fiery signs covering its broad
                        wings and crossing them in all directions, which as they caught the maiden's
                        eye kindled a still keener desire for its possession. She had a haunting
                        sense, indeed, that the happiness of her own life, nay, that more potent
                        issues, depended on her success in this chase, and on her unriddling the
                        bright but evanescent hieroglyphs which so whetted her curiosity.
                    But ever as she thought she had seized the prize—behold it was but idle air,
                        while the luminous wings now twinkling aloft, afar, shone out fair but
                        inaccessible as the midnight stars. Nothing daunted, however, she ran on and
                        on, and as she ran, the fantastic branches of twilight trees seemed catching
                        at her garments, as though to hold her back, or lifting lean, tremulous
                        fingers to warn her from her mad pursuit. Then, before she was aware, she
                        had strayed into a lovely dell, white with innumerable lilies, and, poised
                        on the fairest, with its wonderful wings outspread, behold the butterfly!
                        She stretched out her hand, heaved a sigh of expectancy, and almost
                        tremblingly tightened the clasp of her fingers, but uttered a loud scream on
                        her hand being stung, finding to her horror that instead of the dainty
                        insect she had got hold of a big venomous spider. In her effort to shake it
                        off she awoke with a confused sense of hearing her own cry echoed by the
                        solitude around.
                    Who has not experienced the bewildering sensation of being abruptly awakened
                        from a vivid dream, in which actual sense impressions have become inwoven
                        with the fantastic images of the brain till it seems for  the moment almost 
                            imposssibleimpossible
                         to disentangle the two? This was Mina's case. She looked around
                        confusedly, still faintly shivering with her dream, when she beheld the
                        cause of the noise in two boys who were violently battering and pommelling
                        each other on a small grass plot behind her. The roughest and biggest was
                        holding the lesser one by the back of his waistband and administering a
                        perfect battery of blows here, there, and everywhere. But the advantage was
                        not entirely on his side; for the smaller lad had clutched him by his fierce
                        red hair, standing all on end, and as if on fire with the fury of the
                        combat. Moreover, his head being perforce in a depressed condition, he had
                        converted it into a battering-ram, with which he violently assailed his
                        oppressor between the ribs, to the extreme detriment of his wind. So their
                        chances stood pretty even, and cries and blows redoubled with the difficulty
                        of victory. But what puzzled Mina, who was anxiously looking on, was to see
                        a bird fluttering in strange proximity to the heads of the angry boys, and
                        now and again uttering a low, piteous cry instinct with fear and pain. As
                        she approached, however, the reason became clear.
                    Close to the lads, almost in danger of being crushed by their heels, lay a
                        nest with five callow heads showing above the edge. Nothing more soft, more
                        helpless, more pitiable than those mute, half-open beaks and half-shut eyes,
                        scarcely weaned as yet from the warm darkness of the maternal wings. And how
                        deeply the parent bird felt this utter nakedness of theirs! How she yearned
                        over them! how fiercely her little heart throbbed against her side, till it
                        seemed as though every downy  feather
                        vibrated on her body! It was truly a touching sight, this female bird
                        hovering over her young, dimly comprehending their peril; yet how lost on
                        these savage young natures only intent on wresting the spoil from each
                        other!
                    Mina had come close up to the boys, and was now entreating them to restore
                        the nest to the place whence they had taken it. But seeing that her words
                        had no effect, she hastily fumbled in her pockets for a few stray coins. As
                        usual, alas! they were bare of any. While she was turning her pockets inside
                        out, and littering the grass with a queer assortment of odds and ends, the
                        lads left off battering each other for a moment to stare at her, half
                        stupidly and half cunningly. But one of them crying out, "I found it, 'tis
                        mine, you rogue;" the other shouted, "I'm the strongest, and I'll keep it;"
                        and so they fell to more violently than before.
                    A brilliant idea now occurred to Mina. She remembered her jar of honey.
                        Taking it from her basket, all aglow with her eagerness, she held it out to
                        the boys, who, nothing loth, snatched it from her dimpled hands.
                    This scene had not been unobserved, however; and now from behind one of the
                        tree-trunks a stranger advanced, and with a faint smile lurking in the
                        corners of his mouth, threw some silver to the boys, bidding them run as
                        fast as their legs would let them; which they did accordingly, honey and
                        all. Then stooping, he gently lifted the nest from the grass, and watching
                        the she-bird for a moment, lightly climbed one of the trees as though used
                        to it, and replaced the nest of fledglings amidst its sheltering leaves. A
                        naïve little  burst of gladness betokened
                        that the feathered mother rejoiced once more at the possession of her young.
                        Mina, absorbed in the proceeding, had remained immovable. Now, however, as
                        the stranger stood once more before her lifting his hat, with a gentle
                        inclination of his head, she blushed as she returned his salute, and then
                        rapidly walked away.
                    In her confusion she had dropped her whole treasure of violets. She did not
                        look back or she would have seen that some one stooped, and, carefully
                        collecting the scattered flowers, hid them away in his breast; then,
                        standing still for a moment, he shaded his eyes from the beams of the
                        setting sun, as yet scarcely intercepted by the sparse foliage, and watched
                        the receding figure as it lightly passed down an avenue of noble old beech
                        trees. The red sunlight just then glowing on their trunks touched the girl's
                        loose-flowing curls, transmuting their brown to reddest gold, so that, as if
                        encircled by an aureole, she seemed passing down the porphyry pillars of
                        some hushed cathedral aisle. Hushed indeed, save for the call of the
                        cuckoo—a faint; far-off call, wafted as by fragrant gusts from some dim
                        green valley lying remote on the limits of the sunset.
                    When the girl had quite disappeared round an angle in the path, the stranger
                        started as from a trance and strode hastily down the same avenue, and when
                        he had passed, shadows as of evening slowly swept over the silent and
                        solitary wood.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER II.
                    A GERMAN COFFEE PARTY.
                    THREE days had elapsed since Mina's adventure in the wood. But Frau
                        Lichtenfeld had not yet consoled herself for the loss of her honey. When she
                        heard her daughter's story she was so amazed that she even forgot to scold
                        her. Give away a jar of her finest honey, forsooth, when she was getting up
                        her half-yearly coffee party, and could not make her "honey-cakes" without
                        it; the cakes of all others in which she excelled—it was past
                        comprehension!
                    In spite of her disappointment, the good lady was determined to make her
                        party eclipse those of her rivals. And to this end she turned a very
                        whirlwind of a woman. Not that she was ever idle—idleness being in her eyes
                        well nigh as heinous a crime as theft—but the steady trade-wind of her
                        activity now blew a violent gale, so that her children scattered at her
                        advent like leaves before a high wind.
                    On the first day, broom in hand, and head swathed  like a mummy, she attacked the dust, her sworn
                        enemy, climbing and ducking with the agility of a wild cat as she routed it
                        from its favourite strongholds—the furniture being huddled on the landing,
                        mostly with its legs sticking in the air.
                    On the second day, with tucked-up petticoats, she went about sluicing floor
                        after floor, till, like a female Neptune, she had brought a flood about the
                        place.
                    But on the third day dryness was restored again, and order and symmetry were
                        evoked from chaos.
                    Then there ensued such a boiling and baking, whipping of cream, beating of
                        eggs and roasting of coffee, as filled the children with ravishment.
                    At last everything was in readiness for the guests. The floor of the best
                        room had been sufficiently polished to endanger the necks of the lady
                        visitors on their way to pay their respects to the lady of the house.
                    The most conspicuous, if not most beautiful, article of furniture in the room
                        was the high, white porcelain stove adorned with brass bands, and supported
                        by way of ornament what looked like four winged claws of a beast of prey.
                        Near it, highly polished too, stood a piece of furniture much in use with
                        great smokers such as the late Herr Professor Lichtenfeld was in his time,
                        but forgotten in polite English circles.
                    In the corner opposite the stove, a walnut étagère was covered with yellow Bohemian glass, Swiss wood
                        carvings, and a quite surprising number of florid birthday cups and saucers
                        with large inscriptions, all invoking blessings or imploring
                        remembrance.
                    A red damask sofa with bolster cushions occupied the space opposite the
                        windows, and dangling near it  was the
                        broad green velvet bell-rope, heavily embroidered with yellow chenille and
                        pearls. The chairs, too, were mostly covered with cushions embroidered in
                        Berlin wool, with a dog, a sheep, or a shepherd invariably represented in
                        the centre.
                    Curtains partly of red damask, partly of white muslin, were elaborately
                        festooned into metal holders, which none but the mistress's own hand ever
                        ventured to disarrange.
                    On a side cupboard between the windows ticked a gilt clock under its glass
                        case, while the works moving the hands also turned a spiral jet of glass,
                        which issued like water from a lion's mouth, as well as the grindstone of a
                        Cupid of similar metal, who was sharpening an arrow. This clock was always
                        inspected with wondrous awe by Conrad and Otto on the rare occasions when
                        they were permitted to enter these sacred precincts. On either hand of it
                        was placed an alabaster vase of gaudily-painted wax flowers, likewise under
                        glass.
                    Above the sofa two life-size family portraits represented Herr Professor and
                        Frau Lichtenfeld in the days of their youth.
                    The Frau Professorinn, née Elise
                        Duttenhofer,was depicted with a leathery but high-coloured complexion,
                        bright brown eyes, and dark brown hair tightly drawn off the face, àla chinoise, and fastened right on the top of
                        the head in elaborate puffs, while a spiral curl, then known by the French
                        word accroche-cœur, was gummed to each
                        side of her face. Her green satin dress, with enormous puffs at the sleeves,
                        was made very low, displaying arms and shoulders that did honour to the  fattening qualities of the national
                        "Mehlspeisen," or flour and milk diet.
                    The Professor's portrait, hanging on the darker side, seemed chiefly
                        noticeable for shirt-frill, shirt-collar, and lank reddish hair. But whoever
                        cared to scrutinize it closer might have detected, even through the mediocre
                        execution of a somewhat characterless physiognomy, an expression of singular
                        earnestness and sweetness, and in the dreamy blue eyes a sort of inverted
                        gaze as of a man always looking inwards or backwards.
                    These oil pictures were not cracked like English works, but looked in a fine
                        state of preservation, owing to Frau Lichtenfeld's habit of polishing them
                        once in three months with a piece of fat bacon and a silk handkerchief. The
                        gilt frames of poorest pattern had not, however, profited much by this, the
                        gold being considerably rubbed off in the process.
                    Frau Lichtenfeld herself, arrayed in a black silk gown—got on the christening
                        day of her first-born—sat bolt upright under her portrait in the crispest of
                        caps and lilac ribbons; while beside her, in imitation of her deportment,
                        sat Lulu, with her golden hair primly oiled and curled. Mina in disgrace,
                        left without orders to attend, had gladly enough made her escape from the
                        tittle-tattle which she dreaded.
                    The large round table in front of the sofa ought to have groaned—if ever
                        table before the days of spirit-rapping did groan—under its load of cakes.
                        Here were "Zuckerbretzeln," "Zwieback," and "Bunt," "Mandeltorten," and
                        "Mohrenköpfe," all national delicacies with untranslatable names.
                    When the clock struck three the ladies gradually  assembled—gentlemen are of course excluded from
                        these solemn rites. After many complimentary speeches and mutual
                        protestations as to who should take the place of honour on the sofa, they
                        settled down amidst much rustling of skirts. And presently, when they had
                        partaken of the excellent coffee and other good things provided for them,
                        their tongues buzzed busily to the accompaniment of their knitting
                        needles.
                    "Yes, yes, my dear Frau Obertribunalprocurator," answered Frau Lichtenfeld to
                        something said in praise of Lulu; "the poor child was born after her
                        father's death, you remember, and takes after our family, of course. She's
                        quite a comfort already, follows me about like a mouse, actually helps me to
                        lay the tablecloth, born little housewife that she is; but the Duttenhofers
                        always were a practical lot, so different from the poor Lichtenfelds."
                        (During this discourse Lulu was giving proof of her practicality by a demure
                        but continuous consumption of the cakes.) "Yes, I might say that I did but
                        one unpractical thing in my life—not that I mean to say that I repented
                        it—repentance is so unpractical—I'm alluding of course to my marrying the
                        poor dear Professor, blessed be his memory. And Mina, you know, takes after
                        her father, more's the pity. She's always up in the clouds, but now since
                        the Countess has taken the bel étage,
                        she's more past my management than ever—not but that her manners are
                        mending, and high time they should, too."
                    At the mention of the Countess all the ladies pricked up their ears, and so
                        keen was their curiosity on this subject that they not only left off
                        praising their children, abusing their husbands, and bewailing the
                        degeneracy  of servants, but suffered their
                        knitting to drop in their laps, so that an almost ominous silence succeeded
                        the clatter.
                    The Frau Professorinn, who enjoyed the importance of knowing a little, though
                        in truth only a very little, more than her neighbours on this subject, was
                        not slow to avail herself of the advantage to the utmost.
                    "Yes," she continued, fired by the curiosity of her listeners; "one
                        afternoon, come a month last general mending-day, when Theresa, who was
                        helping me with the large basket, was just telling me that the Frau
                        Geheimräthin Fick had it from her husband that the Countess—just think of
                        it—was a spy in the pay of the Czar of Russia, when there came a tap at the
                        door, and before I had time to say, 'Come in,' in walked——"
                    "Not the Countess?" exclaimed some of the ladies, interrogatively.
                    "The Countess herself," said Frau Lichtenfeld, casting a triumphant glance
                        around, "looking so grand and stately, with yards of black velvet sweeping
                        my floor like a broom, that it quite took my breath away; and curtsying to
                        me as if I were her Serene Highness herself. Our Grand Duchess has not near
                        such a carriage, though she is the niece of the Emperor of all the
                        Russias!"
                    "I always thought that she must be some unfortunate great lady in exile,"
                        complacently interposed Frau Obertribunalprocurator Hopfengärtner, a stout,
                        florid woman, inclined to take a hopeful view of things. "Now do tell us,
                        what did you do, my dear Frau Professorinn?"
                    "Why, I was so stunned that I forgot even to ask  her to sit down; but the beautiful lady sat down
                        beside me, and said smiling (I never saw any one smile or sit down with such
                        an air), 'Pray,' said she, 'accept my excuses, dear madam, for venturing to
                        intrude thus abruptly upon you, but I have a favour to ask which I hope you
                        will not refuse.'"
                    "A favour to ask!" echoed three or four of the ladies, nodding or shaking
                        their heads, as they happened to be charitably or enviously inclined.
                    "Yes," continued the Professorinn, eagerly; "she said she had caught sight of
                        my Mina in the garden, and that there was something in the child's face she
                        had taken a fancy to, and would like to paint into a picture—for it seems,
                        instead of doing embroidery or crochet, she amuses herself with dabbling in
                        colours."
                    "Hm, hm, does she paint?" murmured an acid little spinster, with
                        snuff-coloured locks and a complexion like kitchen soap. "I always thought
                        for my part that she was an impostor."
                    "Ah, my dear Fräulein von Griesbach, are you not slightly confounding the
                        justifiable æsthetic make-believe with morals?" lisped Frau Scherer, in a
                        plaintive voice.
                    "You may imagine," continued Frau Lichtenfeld, ignoring the interlude, "that
                        I could not help feeling flattered at such a great lady noticing my chit of
                        a girl, who is well enough to be sure, but no beauty."
                    "Her hair is against her, no doubt," remarked the maiden of the straight,
                        dingy locks; "it shines like copper, and is always in a tangle."
                    "Well," resumed Mina's mother, bristling somewhat  —for though she was always abusing her daughter,
                        she did not relish any one else doing so—"of course I was only too delighted
                        to have my daughter's portrait taken, and told her that I had myself been
                        painted in my youth by the Grand Duke's own painter, Herr Fridolin, (here
                        the good woman cast an admiring glance at the likeness above her), still I
                        could not help asking her what she saw in the girl. There was Wolf now, the
                        flower of the flock, I should have thought he would have suited her ladyship
                        far better, I said; but the Countess only smiled, shook her head, and
                        repeated it was my girl she wanted. You see she told me she was lonely, had
                        taken a fancy to her, and was quite grateful to me for granting her request.
                        Think of that! There was ever so much I wanted to say and ask her, but
                        before I had time to begin like, she was on her feet, bowing to me again in
                        that stately way, and gone."
                    "And are you not afraid, honoured Frau Professorinn," remarked the maiden
                        lady, "that poor Mina's head may be turned in finding herself singled out in
                        this way by someone so much above her in station?"
                    "With all her faults the girl's not vain," retorted the mother; "and the
                        Countess often talks to her in French, you know, which is as good as if we
                        paid for a finishing school, and will make quite a lady of her, as I
                        say."
                    "Before taking her for a pattern," said Fräulein von Griesbach again, "I
                        think it would be advisable to know why this Countess, young, beautiful, and
                        fabulously rich, they say, has come 'snowing' into our midst from the Lord
                        knows where, and lives quasi hidden in
                        this house (a house, begging your pardon for saying so, gracious Frau
                        Professorinn, so remote from  the
                        fashionable quarter of the town), and who, instead of showing a natural wish
                        to mingle in the elegant gaieties of the nobility, has positively, I hear,
                        refused access to her presence to some of our leading magnates, and never
                        yet shown herself at our theatre or public promenade."
                    "Well, well," remarked Frau Obertribunalprocurator, in a soothing voice,
                        "they do say that the poor Countess was the wife of a great Polish nobleman,
                        who, on being sent into exile, went travelling from country to country with
                        her till they settled down in Alexandria. There, incredible as it seems, the
                        infatuated man was converted to the religion of Mohammed; and so thought it
                        a duty enjoined by his new faith, I am told, to marry at least three wives
                        besides his own to show what a zealous convert he was."
                    "The poor dear Countess!" commiserated some of the ladies, though they had
                        already believed and listened to dozens of tales of the most contradictory
                        character respecting her.
                    "When the Countess found that all her expostulations with that shameless
                        renegade, her husband, were in vain," continued Frau Hopfengärtner, "she
                        left him secretly (some say she has property of her own; others that she
                        made off with the better part of his, and serve him right, too); and so has
                        been in hiding ever since for fear her rascal of a husband might do her some
                        mischief, being of a vindictive and desperate character."
                    "These demagogues and revolutionists always are," said Fräulein von
                        Griesbach.
                    "But, my dear Frau Obertribunalprocurator, I have it on the best authority,"
                        interposed another lady, who had hitherto been silent, "that this Countess
                        for all her  grand airs was neither more
                        nor less than a singer, who starred it in every capital of Europe, till she
                        married a pseudo-Italian Count, who played the devil with her money at
                        cards, till in self-defence she ran away from him and came here to hide
                        herself."
                    "Singer, indeed!" burst out the indignant Frau Lichtenfeld. "As if I did not
                        know a great lady when I saw one, when my father, the Medicinalrath
                        Duttenhofer, attended half the great ladies in the land. Why, our Grand
                        Duchess has not such a bearing as she."
                    "Still there's a mystery round her," said Fräulein von Griesbach, with a
                        little spiteful toss of her head.
                    "Yes, that's it; there's a mystery," said the other ladies, significantly
                        looking at each other and shaking their heads. After this the conversation
                        veered round to the inexhaustible topic of servants and their enormities,
                        which was suddenly interrupted, however, by Lulu's loud sobbing.
                    The child had remained unobserved for some time, and was standing near the
                        table with one of its little fists pressed into its eye; and the other
                        holding a large slice of unfinished cake. On being asked why she was crying,
                        Lulu presently recovered sufficient breath to confess her piteous plight:
                        "She couldn't eat any moreShe couldn't eat any morenot any more—of all the
                        sweeties there."
                    "Go, take the cake to your brothers," said Frau Lichtenfeld; "I hear them
                        coming; the poor boys have more cause for crying than you, silly child."
                    And now at a still early hour the ladies began folding up their knitting and
                        other work, and, curtseying themselves out with many parting compliments,
                        broke up the conclave of coffee and scandal.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER III.
                    MOONLIGHT MYSTERIES.
                    WHILE on the floor below the ladies were still at their gossip, Mina was
                        ensconced in her own particular sanctum or bower. We say bower, because it
                        was green as any bird's, and as high too, adjoining the roof in fact, so
                        that the big pear tree at the back gave her an occasional call, tapping at
                        the window if closed, and if open, waving a friendly palm in token of good
                        fellowship.
                    Mina never quite satisfied herself, however, whether the greeting were really
                        for her, or for the swallows who in summer inhabited the storey above, or,
                        in common parlance, the eaves. But considering the terms of close intimacy
                        on which they all stood, it would have been absurd to inquire too jealously
                        as to the object of these delicate attentions. Did they not share most
                        things in common, even to a kind of masonic speech, which none but the
                        initiated could understand?
                    The room just mentioned was small, like its inhabitant, but nearly as bright
                        and fresh. Ivy, growing in  plain
                        earthenware jars, had been trained round the walls, which though simply
                        whitewashed were thus tapestried in quite a festive manner. Here and there a
                        space had been cleared of leaves in order to hang a few bookshelves, or to
                        fix brackets on which stood vases always filled with fresh flowers. From the
                        ceiling in the centre hung a flower-vessel in terra cotta, very much like an
                        old Grecian lamp in shape, whence the long tendrils of a creeper fell in
                        graceful festoons.
                    Against the wall, opposite the window, a narrow bedstead was placed
                        half-shrouded in white curtains, and covered by one of those patchwork
                        counterpanes which are such an eloquent proof of thrift and industry. A
                        narrow strip of carpet, likewise of patchwork, lay beside the bed on the
                        plain deal floor. A table, covered with a faded green cloth, stood by the
                        window; on it a globe with gold fish which, glowing like burnished copper,
                        circled unceasingly round it, like an emblem of time itself.
                    Nor must we forget a mysterious book, bound in red morocco with a steel clasp
                        and a lock and key to it, between whose leaves, had it been opened, would
                        have been found pressed wild flowers and thoughts like flowers. Now it was a
                        wreath of forget-me-nots, now a pale tracery of primroses or flourish of
                        violets, between which were traced, in a girlish hand, sometimes only a few
                        words or lines, sometimes a verse or two. What words? what verses? you ask.
                        Pry who dare into the secret heart of maidenhood; we shrink from such
                        profanation! Shut the book. Come away.
                    Walls, carpets, chairs, and tables, however, do not alone constitute a room.
                        The inhabitant breathes his  own soul into
                        the inanimate objects and stamps them with his seal. Thus this little
                        chamber seemed to be redolent of virginity, to smell of sweet fancies, to
                        have dainty thoughts stored away amid its plain furniture, as lavender is
                        laid between linen to keep it delicately fragrant.
                    Mina's duties for the day were over. She had toiled through the A B C with
                        Lulu, through the grammar and geography lessons with her dreadfully unruly
                        younger brothers, who could never be made to remember the difference between
                        a noun and an adjective; and invariably struggled through the declensions
                        with the feverish agitation of flies caught in a spider's web, hopeless of
                        ever getting out again in safety.
                    What mischief had they not again been up to this day? In the middle of a
                        dictation, while carefully enunciating each syllable of the formidable word,
                        "Me-so-po-ta-mia," the teacher had been rudely disturbed, nay, absolutely
                        routed, in her dignified gravity, by a multitudinous whirr of wings, darkly
                        swarming about the room like another plague of Egypt. For Hans, that
                        ringleader in mischief, had opened on the sly the lid of a capacious box,
                        wherein he had bred a colony of cockchafers, which, just ready for flight,
                        rushed into space with a muffled whirr, covering the walls and curtains,
                        some even—oh, horror!—perhaps attracted by its brightness, settling on
                        Mina's hair, thus driving her from the room with arms uplifted, amid
                        tumultuous uproar and screams and laughter.
                    Not rarely, indeed, did the lessons terminate in such a climax of confusion
                        and horror.
                    But Mina had now fled to her sanctum under the  roof. It was always hushed and quiet there. So
                        hushed that she could hear the little brook hastily lapping among the weeds
                        and grasses as it flowed past the garden; so quiet that the lisping of
                        leaves, that the mere stir of a spray and the intermittent babble of
                        Nature's arrant gossip, the wind, were as distinctly audible as the speech
                        of some familiar friend. At times also, with almost startling distinctness,
                        one heard the distant barking of dogs, the laughter of children at play, or
                        the lowing of cattle trudging home to the stalls.
                    Curled up on the brown well-worn cushion of the window sill, her favourite
                        seat, by the way, the girl overlooked the garden, then the fields extending
                        to the range of hills that had ever enclosed her horizon, behind which, as
                        it seemed to her, lay the world, with all its boundless life and
                        mystery.
                    A book of poems lay in her lap, but she was not reading. She was indulging in
                        one of those day-dreams so dear to girlhood, in which a world, unsubstantial
                        as the cloudland of an evening sky, is constructed out of nothing, to the
                        unspeakable delight of the builder thereof.
                    Suddenly the girl, leaning out of the window, gives a start and glad
                        exclamation—"The swallows! The swallows!"
                    There is a shrill twittering, an ebullition of song, and a number of swallows
                        dart through the air, or hang in clusters to the trees above her. Not for
                        long, however. Ere that eastern cloud, all aglow with the sunset, has faded,
                        they have taken flight once more, and the black flash of their wings has
                        subsided behind the hills.
                    A pair, however, has remained, executing a thousand  graceful evolutions before Mina's eyes. Now they
                        almost brush her cheek with the tip of their pointed wings, vanish,
                        reappear, dive low, razing the grass, then soar aloft, rising higher and
                        higher, till they seem mere specks against the faint hues of the twilight
                        sky. Here they are again, hovering round the old nest, inspecting it now
                        from this side, now from that, twittering in shrill tones, more expressive
                        than any words, of their heartfelt joy at being at home once more in the old
                        familiar place.
                    It seemed as though they would never have done. But, then, they had so much
                        to relate to their old playfellows, Mina and the pear tree—of south lands
                        far over sea, of palm-trees and pyramids, of tawny stretches of sand, burnt
                        through, bare of shrub and herb, like a bone gnawed and licked clean by the
                        hot lips of the sun; then of home sickness and the long, long voyage; of the
                        Peak of Teneriffe, that obelisk of the ocean, where they alit a cloud of
                        wings, and the weaklings drifted helpless like leaves in a high wind, and
                        were swept from the precipices, fluttering down, down into the yawning deep,
                        never to fly any more with the fleet-winged swarm, fly north to the green
                        land of streams, to the land of the lime and the slim-leaved willow tree and
                        steeples numberless; to the land where their nests, whether clinging close
                        to poor man's thatch, Gothic roof, or castled wall, were ever hailed as
                        harbingers of luck.
                    Yes, all this and much more did Mina hear as she sat listening to the blithe
                        gossip of the swallows, which subsided at last with subsiding day,
                        abandoning the earth to silence and twilight. Like a low prelude, which  by and by will usher in some mellow and
                        perfect piece of music, a vaporous silver light faintly indicated the spot
                        above the hills where the moon would rise anon.
                    
                    But, hark! What sounds are these? Too aërial almost to be evoked by human
                        fingers, too full of harmony for a bird's singing! An illusion, no doubt;
                        for not a breath of air even ruffles the profound silence of the night. Mina
                        listens again in amazement. Surely these indescribably delicate, elf-like
                        sounds are produced by the strings of a guitar. Impossible! Whence,
                        wherefore, should come a musician to this sequestered spot? Shyly wondering,
                        the girl peeps furtively through the half-open window; all she sees,
                        however, is the blurred shadow of the blossoming pear tree on the grass
                        beneath, but dimly lit as yet by the rising moon.
                    Still the music swells into fuller, more continuous melody; and who is this
                        singing with low, seductive voice— 
                            
                                Low singing through the night I go,
                                And as the starry beams
                                Into the mellow moonlight flow,
                                I'll melt into thy dreams.
                            
                            
                                Thou'rt like the mellow moon, fair maid,
                                I like that humble star
                                Which, by her light enthralled and swayed,
                                Stands worshipping afar.
                            
                        
                    The song was ended. Only a few expiring chords still resounded from the
                        instrument, then its strings burst into a wild, almost unearthly twanging,
                        at once exquisite and demoniacal, which, growing fainter,  receded as if through the old garden gate and
                        into the footpath beyond.
                    Although the moon had gradually risen above the hills, and was now bleaching
                        the untrimmed grass of the garden and silvering the milk-white,
                        thick-clustered blossoms of the pear tree, not a trace of the mysterious
                        musician was anywhere visible. The exquisite charm of the music had
                        certainly ravished Mina to such a degree that her curiosity had been merged
                        in admiration.
                    She lay quite still, with her face hidden on her arm, and in her childlike
                        simplicity never thought that either song or singer could have any
                        connection with herself. It was like part of the spring to her; as if the
                        sounds were being exhaled like scent from the opening flowers. While she
                        thus brooded, striving to recall the exquisite air to her inner sense once
                        more, she did not mark a tapping at her door. Presently it opened, and a
                        tall woman softly entered, and was going toward Mina, as though with
                        familiar greeting, when she suddenly stood quite still in an attitude of
                        strained attention. One could see her distinctly, illuminated as she was by
                        the level moonlight, which, streaming through the window into the middle of
                        the room, made a sort of chequerwork on the boards there. It was to this
                        light perhaps that the beautiful features owed some of their abnormal
                        pallor, a pallor still enhanced by the coal-black hair coiled in heavy
                        plaits round her head, and by the full-coloured coral of lips which even the
                        moonshine could not neutralize.
                    As she stood thus, with uplifted head and a haunting smile, faint snatches of
                        the wild exquisite air seemed to be wafted from afar with a sudden gust of
                        wind.  However incoherent the tune, its
                        fantastic cadence seemed strangely to move this lady, for, apparently under
                        its influence, she began slowly swaying herself to and fro, the undulating
                        curves of her beautiful body being instinct with a dreamy voluptuousness, a
                        sleepy grace, echoed, so to speak, by the suppressed glow of her dark eyes
                        and the inaudible melody framed by her moving lips.
                    Gradually, however, this rhythmic motion seemed to communicate a passionate
                        impulse to her whole being. As her gestures became more excited, a black
                        lace scarf fell from her ivory-white arms and shoulders, and now advancing,
                        now retreating, she snapped her fingers with a passionate cry, and glancing
                        over her shoulder, smiled bewitchingly as though she saw some one there in
                        the empty air. All at once, however, she uttered a moan, and bending low,
                        pressed her hand to her ankle, while a slight shiver passed over her frame.
                        In this attitude she stood as rigid as a statue, only in the dilated pupils
                        of her dazzling eyes there was a flicker as of fear, pain, or yearning
                        ecstasy.
                    In another instant her limbs, her features, nay, her very eyebrows, seemed
                        convulsed with emotion, then with abrupt, violent gesticulations, with
                        quivering lips, with heaving bosom, with head thrown back in passionate
                        self-abandonment, chaunting fragments of a wildly thrilling melody, she
                        threaded the bewildering figures of an intricate and mysterious dance.
                    Her long hair, shaken down by the vehemence of her movements, and black as
                        some raven's plumage, flapped loosely behind her, while large death's-head
                        moth swooped on flurried wing above this tall figure fitfully whirling in
                        and out of the pale moonshine.
                    
                    All at once the dancer burst into mocking, seemingly irrepressible laughter.
                        She had caught sight of Mina's gaze, half amazement, half terror, fixed full
                        upon her: in the midst of her unaccountable excitement this seemed to have
                        produced a violent revulsion to mirth in her.
                    Mina abruptly roused from her deep absorption, had, indeed, been breathlessly
                        watching this singular spectacle. Her sensations were utterly bewildering.
                        She felt almost like a person labouring under a nightmare, whose lips refuse
                        to make a sound. Had her friend gone mad? Or what was it that suddenly
                        seemed to transform the beautiful woman she admired so enthusiastically into
                        a weird demoniacal apparition? What was it that invested the enchantment of
                        her smile, her eyes, her laughter, with the chill of an ominous
                        foreboding?
                    This whole scene, long as it has taken to describe, lasted scarcely a few
                        minutes. The lady, whatever might have been the cause of her previous
                        extraordinary conduct, now moved towards the window with her habitual
                        languid grace, and placing one hand, sparkling with many rings, under Mina's
                        chin, said with a slightly sarcastic intonation in her voice—
                    "What a child it is, with its little head stuffed full of fairies, witches,
                        enchantments dire, and such fantastical fiddle-faddle! Fanciful to the
                        extent of seeing even in me, inoffensive mortal of flesh and blood that I
                        am, some hateful sorceress weaving spells by moonlight to bring ruin on my
                        dearest friends."
                    She laughed again and said, "Forgive me, but you are too comic, Mina; indeed,
                        you are!"
                    
                    So saying she threw one arm lightly round the girl's shoulders and, leaning
                        far out of the window, gazed intently across the hushed, moonlit landscape,
                        across whose grey breadths of light not so much as the shadow of a moving
                        cloud was to be seen. Long, long she looked, sometimes faintly humming
                        snatches of the same fantastic tune. Suddenly she drew in her head again
                        with an impatient action, and turning to Mina said—
                    "No wonder you grow fanciful, my child, if you will sit here by the hour with
                        your head exposed to the naked glare of this moon; or is there possibly
                        another attraction here; it's not the man in, but under the moon, perhaps,
                        that lends charm to solitude?"
                    She looked keenly at Mina for an instant as if she would read her through
                        arid through but seeing her ingenuous face flush up with quick indignation
                        and surprise, she laughed again lightly as she said—
                    "I was only teazing you, ma petite; it's
                        much too good a girl, I know, even to harbour such wicked thoughts. But by
                        the way, Mina, I could never have believed that my dancing, which was once
                        upon a time accounted the most graceful thing in the world, could have given
                        any one the fright it did you!"
                    "I am sorry, so sorry," stammered the girl in an apologetic tone; "it came
                        upon me in such an unexpected, sudden manner—and then the moonlight, I
                        think, made you look changed and strange, as if——" But interrupting herself
                        confusedly, she continued, "Oh, yes, it was beautiful, too beautiful! and I
                        shall not be frightened now if you will dance again, dearest Countess."
                    "No, no," exclaimed the other, with passionate vehemence,  making an involuntary gesture with her hand, as
                        though to wave back some influence which might once more blindly dominate
                        her senses—"think you I would dance thus for your pleasure, girl? It was
                        that I thought I heard that to which my limbs——No matter, no matter! An
                        illusion, no doubt, caused by this detestable moonlight. Well, well! does it
                        not often haunt me in dreams? But there, Mina, now you are opening your eyes
                        again in that wide, wondering fashion, which is so irritating at times; you
                        should get out of that habit. There are stranger things, let me tell you, in
                        the lives of men and women—for all you look down upon them as commonplace
                        mortals—than in all the fairy tales with which you have crammed your brain,
                        till you can't hear a cat mew but you think there's magic in it. There, I
                        don't mean to scold. I simply came up to see if you could sit to me
                        to-morrow. I wanted to seek you out myself in your loft haunt for once,
                        instead of sending Louise. Come early, for I want to send your portrait to
                        the exhibition at Düsseldorf, you know. Now good-night; don't dream of me as
                        a witch who flies out of window pirouetting on a broomstick."
                    So saying her visitor lightly kissed Mina on the cheek, and again tittered
                        ironically. The latter saw her friend to the door, and profusely apologized
                        for her inability to light her down the narrow, break-neck stairs.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    THE COUNTESS STARAJA.
                    IT was past one o'clock the next day when Mina, at last dismissed by her
                        mother, came tripping down the staircase, taking two or three steps at a
                        time, and thereby giving such an impetus to her course that she ran some
                        danger of precipitately flying through the glass door opening on the
                            bel étage. The spruce French lady's
                        maid told her, as usual, that her mistress was not dressed yet, but Madame
                        would receive her in her bedroom.
                    Although the day outside was brilliant with that shrill distinctness of light
                        often peculiar to spring, within all was subdued to low semitones of colour,
                        imparting to this room an air of mysterious quietude and absolute seclusion.
                        A certain liliputian reflection of the outer world was visible, however, in
                        an antique mirror, wherein the green fragment of a landscape receded far
                        into a background tremulous with vernal gold.
                    All clamours, and echoes of clamorous hours, seemed  to be for ever excluded from this dim, perfumed
                        chamber, where, in a mellow twilight, a woman was sitting, combing out her
                        long hair, darkly shed about her smooth white shoulders.
                    Intently absorbed in watching her own reflection in the looking-glass before
                        her, she did not notice the girl's entrance till the latter, putting an arm
                        round her, had saluted her with a kiss; when looking up with a faintly
                        ironical smile, she tapped Mina on the cheek, saying—
                    "So you are no longer afraid of me, little one! Truly I did not know whether,
                        crediting me, as it seemed, with the gifts of magic and witchcraft, you did
                        not intend cutting me in future, for fear I should cast some spell upon you,
                        more especially as I am painting your portrait just now."
                    At the remembrance of the weird, almost baleful impression which her
                        fascinating friend had produced on her overwrought fancy on the previous
                        night, Mina burst into a merry laugh, and then with a sudden transition from
                        her exuberant gaiety to a certain impassioned earnestness, she exclaimed
                        fondly, "You have indeed cast a spell on me, or how account for my worship
                        of you, Countess? But what could painting my portrait have to do with the
                        matter?"
                    "Oh," replied the Countess, carelessly, slowly passing and repassing a
                        tortoise-shell comb through her luxuriant black hair, "I was alluding to an
                        Eastern superstition, according to which the person who paints your portrait
                        gets a hold for better or worse over your soul—and mostly for worse," she
                        added under her breath, with a certain gleam in her eyes. "Therefore,  beware, beware, little one, how you
                        entrust your portrait to my keeping; who knows but the day may come when I
                        shall imperil your soul's happiness to serve mine."
                    While she was speaking she dexterously twisted her heavy plaits round a
                        dagger-like hair-skewer at the back of her head, her movements being
                        somewhat impeded, however, by her companion, who had impetuously flung her
                        arms round her neck exclaiming—
                    "Do you think if there were truth in this superstition I would not trust
                        myself in effigy in your hands?"
                    "Well, let's not waste any more time, for I mean to put the finishing touches
                        to your portrait today," said the Countess, passing Mina's arm in her own,
                        and leading her down the corridor into a lofty room, half studio, half
                            salon, in which the smell of oil paint
                        was disguised by rich, enervating perfumes.
                    On the lady's entrance two macaws of peculiarly brilliant plumage began
                        violently swinging themselves backwards and forwards in their rings and
                        screaming vociferously.
                    Mina always felt herself transported into some enchanted demesne of the
                        Arabian Nights on entering this apartment, so gorgeous to her, accustomed as
                        she was only to the most homely style of living and furniture.
                    She was never tired of admiring the costly knick-knacks and ornaments, not
                        only arranged on cabinets and stands, but carelessly strewn about in all
                        directions. Here a delicately tinted Louis Quinze fan was half buried under
                        a pile of music; there bottles of attar of roses, worth their weight in
                        gold, costly old laces and  richly
                        embroidered scarfs were mixed up with brushes and coloured chalks, while
                        Indian cashemeres and other Eastern fabrics were flung over sofas, or even
                        on the floor, like common rugs.
                    What attracted the girl more than anything, however, were the pictures,
                        chiefly portraits, on the walls, and a large portfolio filled with sketches
                        of people and places. She now again turned over these latter while the
                        Countess was arranging the draperies for a background to her liking, and
                        getting her palette ready. Suddenly Mina came upon a sketch which she
                        wondered at not having noticed before, and which exercised a kind of
                        fascination over her.
                    It was a sunny Italian scene such as Leopold Robert loved to paint. An open
                        space on the Chiaja at Naples, about the hour of sunset. A young girl of
                        Capri, queenlike of bearing, but with a tambourine in her hand, seemingly
                        dancing to the strains of two street musicians in the midst of a circle of
                        ragged girls children, and fishermen. Her inimitable grace of motion was
                        dashed off in few colours by the hand of a master. On the extreme
                        foreground, leaning against the parapet, a few scratches of charcoal
                        conveyed the impression of a tall man, seen in what the French call a
                            profil perdu, intently gazing, as it
                        seemed, at the beautiful dancing figure. It was the vivid impression of a
                        scene that had evidently stamped itself on a great artist's mind, sunlight
                        and all.
                    "Oh," cried Mina, impulsively rising and taking the sketch to her friend's
                        side, "what a wonderful thing this is! Dear me, as I look at it, it seems to
                        remind me—why, it is——"
                    
                    But before she had time to finish what she was going to say, the Countess had
                        snatched the sketch from the girl's hand, and tossing it into a corner, said
                        imperiously, with a sudden flashing of the eyes—
                    "I wish you would sit still, Mina, and hold your head in one position, if
                        only for ten minutes, or I shall once for all throw your portrait in the
                        fire. What a little plague you are, always rummaging amidst this old litter
                        of mine!"
                    Then, as if to make up for her irritable manner, she chucked the girl
                        caressingly under the chin and said—
                    "There, pet, just raise your head a trifle more in that direction; no, more
                        to that side. You can study my copy of the famous 'Mona Lisa' yonder, while
                        I try to put in your eyes."
                    The Countess now painted away with fitful energy. She put the eyes in; she
                        took a piece of rag and rubbed them out again. Then she put them in once
                        more of a different colour. For a while she looked at them, then she threw
                        down her mallstick, stepped back from her easel, and said petulantly—
                    "There's something very perverse about you, Mina. Do what I will your eyes
                        still get that tragic look in my picture, though they are sunny enough of
                        themselves."
                    It must be admitted here that the Countess, though she had occasional flashes
                        of inspiration, was not what would be called a good artist. Once she had had
                        the opportunity of studying under a great master, and she might perhaps have
                        attained considerable excellence had it not been for an unaccountable
                        perversity, which no teaching or remonstrance could break her of. This was a
                        curious preference for some colours, and an  equally curious aversion to others, which at certain times seemed to grow
                        quite uncontrollable. Thus though she occasionally hit off a very successful
                        likeness, she usually injured it through too lavish use of red or hot
                        pigments in contradistinction to the blue or cold ones.
                    Nevertheless, she had already exhibited several portraits and one or two
                        pictures, and at the time we are writing of she was determined (for reasons
                        of her own) to make an income by art. She had taken a good deal of pains
                        with Mina's portrait, therefore, and had on the whole successfully rendered
                        the softly rounded outlines of the face and the general character of the
                        features. While trying to put the finishing touches to the breezy ripple of
                        her bright chestnut hair, she said—
                    "What magnificent hair you have, child! Only Titian could have done justice
                        to it. Now be honest for once with me, and tell me how many of the good
                        youths of this town have paid you compliments on it, for all your simple
                        looks."
                    Mina, who had never speculated much on her personal appearance, was more
                        unconscious of herself than many a child, and thought the Countess must be
                        mocking her, her hair having always been a source of trouble to her.
                    "The boys often joke me about my hair," she said, smiling in a deprecating
                        way; "and when mother's out of temper with me, she says it's part of my
                        general contrariness; and I think she fancies it has something to do with
                        poor papa's having been such a great Sanskrit scholar."
                    
                    The Countess, bursting into a peal of laughter, cried—"Oh, Mina, Mina, what
                        an oddity you are! But you'll learn differently when you get a lover one of
                        these days. A pretty girl like you is as sure to attract them as a candle
                        does moths. Nay, there's nothing to look so shocked about; friendship won't
                        always suffice you, I prophesy. Now promise me, Mina, when the first lover
                        makes his appearance that you'll make me your mother confessor. There's that
                        Lieutenant Knapp; now, he seems a tidy youth, and from the way he clatters
                        up the staircase rattling his sword, I should think his impatience to see a
                        certain——"
                    "Please, please, don't talk like that," said Mina, moving restlessly in her
                        chair; "if you will only put up with me and be my friend, dearest Countess,
                        that is all I care about."
                    "Yes, yes," replied the latter, "I do very well for the present, but suppose
                        I were to put your friendship to the test."
                    "Put it to any test you like!" exclaimed Mina, impetuously jumping up and
                        kissing the Countess, who was looking at her with her enigmatic smile; "and
                        see what there is I would not sacrifice, were it possible for such a one as
                        me to do anything for your happiness."
                    "Oh, Mina, these are weighty words, but I do believe you are fond of me and
                        have a faithful heart. Well," she continued, passing her hand over the
                        girl's hair; "if I should ever be in trouble, be sure I'll remember that
                        there is a little friend——"
                    A rap at the door interrupted the speaker; and the lady's-maid entered and
                        handed a letter with several foreign-looking postmarks to her mistress. The
                        latter  took it languidly enough, but on
                        seeing the handwriting uttered an exclamation, and feverishly tore it open.
                        In a moment she had devoured the contents of the letter, and then began
                        perusing it a second time more slowly and carefully. There were only a few
                        lines, indeed, and these seemed written as though each letter had cost the
                        writer a supreme effort. A wild excitement had suddenly taken the place of
                        the lady's habitual languor, and she rapidly paced up and down the long
                        room, while an irrepressible look of triumph flashed for an instant over her
                        features. "He must and shall be mine yet!" she muttered between her
                        teeth.
                    It was clear she had absolutely forgotten Mina's presence. She rang the bell
                        with violence, and when the maid entered, said hurriedly—
                    "Pack up my things at once, Louise, and send Hector round to Herr Professor
                        Sontheim to say I must see him immediately on pressing business: let him
                        also get everything ready for our departure, as I start for Russia to-morrow
                        morning."
                    Louise, like the well-bred maid she was, took the tidings without any signs
                        of surprise, as though this was simply one of her mistress's many caprices.
                        As she was leaving the room the Countess called her back, saying—
                    "Wait a minute, I will write a note to Herr Sontheim myself."
                    She sat down at her secretaire, dashed off a few lines, sprinkled them with
                        gold sand, sealed the note and handed it to the maid, who immediately left
                        the room. She then for the third time began conning the contents of the
                        letter, which ran as follow—
                    
                    "Though I know everything, yet I forgive. My honour and loyalty protect you
                        from my revenge, had I wished for any. I love you unchangeably, and all I
                        ask for the ruin you have wrought is, Come to me before it. is too late! I
                        am dying, but your secret shall die with me!"
                    Having now engraved every word on her memory, the Countess lit a candle, and
                        holding the letter to the flame, saw it shrivel up in a moment; she then
                        hurried out of the room, without a word to Mina, apparently to give some
                        further directions about her approaching journey.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER V.
                    LEAVE-TAKING.
                    SOME time elapsed before the Countess returned. Her face was even paler than
                        its wont, and her eyes glittered more restlessly. When she caught sight of
                        Mina, who for the last hour had been crying like a forlorn child, with her
                        head buried in the cushions of the sofa, she was for the first time reminded
                        of her existence.
                    The girl on hearing of this sudden journey to Russia had, indeed, been fairly
                        aghast. To her small-town notions of a journey, as a thing that must be
                        arranged, planned, and thought of at least a month beforehand, such a
                        proceeding was simply incredible.
                    An then to lose her friend in this abrupt manner! the only friend she had
                        ever had, and to whom she had attached herself with all the ardour of a
                        nature which for the first time finds the shapes of beauty that have haunted
                        it incorporated in a living form.
                    What a contrast was there not to the imaginative  Mina between the prim Philistines of D——, with
                        their interminable twaddle, and this noble lady, who, in her eyes, was
                        invested with the double charm of beauty and mystery!
                    And now the Countess was not only going to leave her thus suddenly, but while
                        still present in the body seemed already absent in the spirit.
                    "Why, pet," said the latter, who for the last minute or so had been teazing
                        one of her macaws, now sitting down beside Mina, "what's the matter? One
                        would think you had the toothache, or is it that you are so sorry I am going
                        to Russia?"
                    Mina raised her head, and looking fondly at her, said with brimming eyes, "To
                        Russia! all that long way, and so soon! No, no, you cannot be going
                        yet!"
                    "Yes, yes, child, to Russia! Why if I were going to the Antipodes you could
                        not look more woebegone. Cheer up! The world is not such a large place as
                        you imagine, and people are always knocking up against their next-door
                        neighbours in the most unlikely places. We shall meet again; Mina, never
                        fear."
                    "But you are going far, far away," sighed Mina, with a droop of the corners
                        of her mouth, as if she were trying not to cry again. But it was no use
                        trying; in another minute she was sobbing as though a terrible misfortune
                        had befallen her. Poor child! to her it was the first experience of parting
                        from one she held dear, and fancied that she held still infinitely dearer;
                        and a first parting is always a foretaste of death.
                    "Why she is actually crying in earnest, the little tender-hearted goose!"
                        exclaimed the Countess, taking her scented pocket-handkerchief and daintily
                        wiping  away the tears that were still
                        rolling down Mina's cheeks. "Now do be good and don't cry any more, or I
                        must ring for Louise to bring me another handkerchief. Besides, crying is
                        bad for the eyes, and yours are too bright to spoil."
                    This playful tone, instead of cheering Mina, had the contrary effect; she
                        felt suddenly quite lonely, and miles upon miles seemed already to intervene
                        between her friend and herself.
                    "Now, Mina," said the Countess, getting up and beginning to collect some of
                        the knick-knacks scattered about, "come and help me put some of these things
                        together, like a good child. There," she continued, taking up a coral
                        necklace with a golden clasp, and passing it round Mina's lovely cream-white
                        throat, "keep this in remembrance of me till we meet again."
                    Mina protested that the trinket was of too great value for her to accept, and
                        that she did not want anything to remember her friend by. But if she wished
                        to make her a present at parting, would she give her that sketch of the
                        dancing girl that bore such a wonderful likeness to herself. She did not as
                        yet know the relative value of the roughest sketch by a master and
                        trinkets.
                    The Countess looked annoyed for an instant, then, shaking her head, said,
                        laughing, "Not so bad an exchange certainly, Mina; but what you ask is quite
                        impossible."
                    Then the girl begged for some little sketch or portrait of her friend, but
                        that too was denied, the Countess remarking that she had a dislike to giving
                        away any likeness of herself.
                    
                    "But don't look so downcast, my child," she said, pulling Mina along with her
                        to the other end of the room, where her easel and colour boxes were, and
                        jumbling all her painting implements together in her haste. "You must come
                        and stay with me some day, either at Paris or St. Petersburg, for I shall be
                        rich now, very rich, perhaps. Is there anything to astonish you so much in
                        that, Mina?"
                    "But you are very, very rich already," said Mina, to whom her friend had
                        always appeared as revelling in the wealth of a Crœsus.
                    "Oh, nonsense!" exclaimed the Countess; "I was getting poorer and poorer, and
                        was going to turn artist for a living; but all that is changed now," she
                        laughed. "When I've settled down, you shall come to me, and we'll introduce
                        you to the world; and a lover, I dare say, will not be long in making his
                        appearance on the stage, too. But I'm forgetting this levity is out of
                        place," she said, as though recalling something to her mind, and assuming a
                        sudden gravity which her eyes belied, however.
                    Mina had not been roused from her sorrow. The prospect of going to stay with
                        the Countess was certainly enchanting; but in the last hour she had gone
                        through an experience painfully startling to her warm heart.
                    While the Countess was still busy getting together some of her property,
                        there was another rap at the door, and a man of Falstaffian proportions was
                        ushered in by the maid as Professor Sontheim. He was chiefly noticeable for
                        one of those powerful Germanic heads that look, and indeed are, a Cosmos in
                        miniature. His  eyes of an indefinite blue,
                        and the rest of his features were disproportionately small compared to the
                        massive outline of his square-set jaw and lofty forehead, whose vastness was
                        increased by a complete absence of hair, save for a meagre bright red
                        fringe, extending from the temples to the back of the head. A man, however,
                        usually finds a certain consolation for this lack of hair in the reflection
                        that it gives him the appearance, at any rate, of having an abnormally large
                        development of the cerebral organs. "Long hair, short wit," as the proverb
                        has it, was a saying probably invented by a bald-pated person; the belief,
                        no doubt, being a salve to the nakedness of his crown. Leopold Sontheim,
                        with his clothes hanging about him in a loose, random fashion, giving one
                        the uneasy impression that on the slightest provocation they might come
                        tumbling down all of a heap, was got up for this occasion in floods of
                        clean, rumpled linen, of innumerable pleats, which his waistcoat of checked
                        buff, rebellious with starch, always refused to cover. His lavender-coloured
                        pantaloons, of enormous width, were strapped down so as to project them
                        almost over the shiny black tips of his light jean half-boots. A brown
                        tail-coat, ornamented with gilt buttons placed high between the shoulders,
                        flapped about his portly figure, its long tails swaying from side to side as
                        he walked. Necktie he had none, but a velvet collar, a straw hat, and
                        diamond studs; hideous in pattern, but of considerable value, completed a
                        costume which, though creased, fluffy, and ill adapted to his red hair and
                        pink complexion, the owner nevertheless knew to be in the last fashion.
                    To Mina's astonishment Herr Sontheim seemed quite  at home in the room, though to her knowledge he
                        had never been there before. He was strangely excited, and on first entering
                        seemed not to notice her, but was going straight towards the Countess in a
                        rapid, vehement manner, when she said, glancing round at Mina—
                    "You must leave us for the present, my child; I have to consult Herr Sontheim
                        on pressing and particular business." But seeing Mina's piteous expression,
                        she added, "If your mother permits it, mind you look in again this evening,
                        little one; I won't take leave of you now."
                    Mina, who could not disguise her vexation at having her last interview with
                        the Countess interrupted, hardly nodded to her old friend, who, for his
                        part, seemed utterly unconscious of her presence or exit.
                    Scarcely had the door closed when the Countess motioning him to a chair,
                        said, "I've sent for you because I must instantly leave for Russia, and
                        there is no one I would turn to in a difficulty so soon as you, Herr
                        Sontheim!"
                    "Impossible! You cannot be cruel enough to leave us so soon, Countess!" cried
                        the gentleman, in a voice he vainly tried to render steady.
                    "I must, indeed!" replied the Countess. "For I have just received news
                        necessitating my immediate departure for St. Petersburg. But unprepared as I
                        was, I must in the course of this day raise a sum of money not only
                        sufficient to defray the expenses of so long a journey, but to settle all my
                        outstanding accounts here, as it is quite uncertain when I may be able to
                        return. Now what would you advise, my 
                        friend? I have some Brazilian bonds by me that you might sell on this
                        emergency."
                    Herr Sontheim, instead of having taken the proffered chair, had been pacing
                        up and down the room in great agitation. He now stood still in front of the
                        lady, exclaiming, "Heavens, Countess, you ask the impossible with the
                        charming peremptoriness of your sex! Bonds cannot be converted into ready
                        money at a minute's notice, at least in this dilatory town of ours; besides,
                        the bank is just about to close. Surely there is no such urgent haste,
                        dearest lady!" he said, looking at her entreatingly; "only give me a little
                        time to collect my thoughts, and everything shall be arranged to your entire
                        satisfaction."
                    While he was speaking the Countess had been tapping the floor impatiently
                        with her elegant Parisian slipper; she now suddenly raised her eyes to his
                        face, exclaiming, "Good God! When one's husband is dying far away in Russia
                        is it a time to speak to me of delay?"
                    "Your husband dying!" echoed Herr Sontheim, taking two or three rapid strides
                        across the room, while a deep colour suddenly crimsoned his face to the hair
                        on his temples; then, sitting down close beside the Countess, he said,
                        lowering his voice, "Command me in everything, dear lady; all I have, and
                        myself to boot, are entirely at your service;" and in a still lower voice he
                        added, "Is it necessary for me to tell you so?" Then, after a moment's
                        silence, as though the thought had only just occurred to him, he added, "So
                        sudden! It must have been a dreadful shock to your feelings."
                    
                    The Countess lay back on the sofa covering her face with her hands. Her bosom
                        was heaving spasmodically, and one or two broken sobs convulsed her
                        beautiful frame. Quite beside himself at this sudden outburst of grief,
                        Leopold Sontheim went down on his knees before the sufferer. There was no
                        one, luckily for him, to witness the feat. "I cannot bear to see you suffer!
                        There is no man living worth one of those tears!" he cried, in a voice
                        quivering with emotion; and, seizing hold of one of her hands, he pressed it
                        with the unconscious force of an athlete.
                    "Oh, you are hurting me so!" gasped the lady, with her lips curiously
                        twitching, as though she were trying to overcome some emotion; and,
                        withdrawing her hand, she pointed to the deep, red incision of a ring which
                        the Professor's pressure had left on one of her long, shapely fingers.
                    "Oh, pardon, pardon my brutality, dearest lady!" cried Herr Sontheim with
                        deep contrition, pressing his lips on the spot indicated.
                    "You are forgetting my position, sir, and the object of your visit here,"
                        said the Countess, with a certain irritation of tone, as she motioned him to
                        rise—a feat which the Professor at length achieved.
                    "There is no time to lose," she continued; "if you really wish to help me in
                        this matter, you must do so at once."
                    Sontheim sat down, and, slowly passing his hand across his forehead, as
                        though to clear his ideas, said, after a moment's cogitation, with quite an
                        altered manner, and the tone of a man of business—
                    "As to those Brazilian bonds you mentioned, they  are bad things to negotiate at present. But let's
                        see, what will you want about—you will be posting all the way—it cannot
                        after all cost you more than about nine hundred florins, and if you will
                        permit me to advance you that sum, I shall esteem it a favour you are
                        conferring on me, dearest lady. I may say," he added, joyfully, "that I have
                        from about nine hundred to a thousand florins in savings!"
                    "I thank you, my friend! But I am sure you will understand that I cannot
                        think of accepting your generous offer. And you have such very economical
                        notions here in Germany," the Countess said, with the faintest smile. "Nine
                        hundred florins will never do! Besides, I've just sent Hector to see about
                        buying a carriage for me, and I must wind up my outstanding accounts here,
                        as I mentioned before."
                    "Let's consider for a moment then," said the Professor, jumping up, and
                        pacing to and fro again.
                    "Oh, I forgot, there are my diamonds!" cried the Countess, rising too, and
                        begging Herr Sontheim to excuse her for a moment.
                    She left the room, returning, after an interval of a few minutes, with a
                        large morocco case. Opening it, she displayed a set of brilliants such as
                        the dazzled Professor had never yet beheld.
                    "How much are they worth?" he exclaimed, rather awe-struck.
                    The Countess considered, and then said, indifferently, "I think they were
                        valued at fifty thousand florins by a jeweller in Paris. I suppose you could
                        sell them for me?"
                    "Sell them!" exclaimed Sontheim. "Oh, that were  impious! Besides, they wouldn't give anything
                        like a fair price for them here; if, indeed, you'd find a customer to make
                        an offer for them."
                    The Countess, who had carelessly taken up a bracelet and was slipping it on
                        her arm, said, with a slight shrug of the shoulder, "Instead of smoothing
                        away difficulties, you do nothing but raise new ones, Herr Professor."
                    "Only in your interest, dearest Countess, and because I would act for the
                        best!" exclaimed Sontheim, deprecatingly. "But I think I have hit on a plan
                        that I hope will meet with your approbation. Leave the diamonds with me, and
                        let me advance you the twelve hundred florins you may require for immediate
                        use; I shall manage to raise them somehow; then the moment I can get away, I
                        will myself take your diamonds to Frankfort, and negotiate a loan for you
                        with Ladenburg and Co. I can then settle all your debts here, if you will
                        kindly leave directions to have the bills sent in to me, repay myself the
                        trifling sum I shall have the felicity of lending you, and the rest, if you
                        will favour me with your address shall be forwarded to you in draft from the
                        bank at Frankfort, if you approve my scheme."
                    "My dear friend, thank you a thousand times for all the trouble you are
                        taking on my behalf," said the Countess, rewarding him with one of her most
                        seductive smiles. "Nothing could be better than the scheme you propose. When
                        do you think you will be able to let me have the money? As for the drafts
                        you spoke of, they had better not be sent on to me till I am sure of my
                        movements—I will then send my address."
                    
                    "Let me see," said Sontheim, pulling out a turnip-shaped silver repeater; "it
                        is now four o'clock; I will be back with the money at seven. But," he cried,
                        as though suddenly recollecting the state of the case, "are you really going
                        to undertake such a long, tedious journey all by yourself, with only
                        servants? Is it safe? Ah!" he cried, becoming excited again, and looking at
                        her with glistening eyes. "Would I were the fortunate man to be allowed to
                        escort you thither! Is it not possible?" he added, oblivious of everything
                        else for the moment.
                    The Countess shook her head softly, and gave him a long look from under her
                        half-drooped eyelids. "That, my friend, is impossible," she said, "under the
                        present melancholy circumstances;" and she pressed her handkerchief to her
                        eyes again. "But we are wasting time here," she continued, in an altered
                        tone; "if you can procure me this money, do it at once, there's a good
                        man!"
                    "I hasten to do your bidding, my lady," cried Sontheim, raising her hand to
                        his lips. Then, seizing his hat, hurried to the door, where, turning round
                        once more, he said, "I will be back without fail at the time mentioned," and
                        left the house deeply commiserating the beautiful woman.
                    The Countess had no sooner heard the street door close than, rising from the
                        sofa and humming the popular tune— 
                            
                                Oh qu'il est beau, qu'il est beau, qu'il est beau,
                                Le Postilion de Lonjumeau,
                            
                         she passed into her bedroom, where her maid, busily  engaged in packing, was folding up a magnificent
                        ruby-coloured velvet dress, trimmed with Venetian rose point.
                    "What are you doing, you idiot! Will you never learn the proper way of
                        folding velvet?" cried the Countess, in an irate voice, snatching the dress
                        from the abigail's hand, and giving her such a violent push that she sent
                        her spinning against a large wardrobe, a corner of which bruised her
                        shoulder.
                    When Mina returned, towards eight o'clock, to take a final leave of the
                        Countess, to her surprise she saw Herr Sontheim with his hat in his hand, a
                        wild look in his eyes, and broad red streaks furrowing his brow, rush past
                        her on the landing without recognizing her.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    WHITSUNTIDE AT THE SILBERBURG.
                    IT was Whitsuntide, and numbers of citizens with their wives and children
                        thronged the streets on their way to the Silberburg, which lay just on the
                        outskirts of the town.
                    The Silberburg, in sooth, seemed a spot purposely created for the celebration
                        of this most poetic of all festivals. It was a beautiful garden, planted on
                        a hill, in the centre of which stood a spacious pavilion, and near it a
                        semicircular stand embowered in frees, but opening on to a lawn in front,
                        and capable of affording ample accommodation to the excellent orchestra,
                        which, on certain grand occasions like the present, replaced the usual
                        military band. The before-mentioned grass-plot, smooth as an English lawn,
                        reached nearly to the hill's edge, but was fenced off by a screen of
                        lime-trees extending along one side of it. Beyond these a growth of
                        underwood formed a green garden wall, not high enough, however, to shut out
                        the  view into a cozy strip of valley,
                        chequered with kitchen gardens and orchards, and threaded here and there
                        with the silver glint of a rivulet. To the north and south of the lawn
                        extended small groves of shrubs and trees which at this season of the year
                        were a perfect labyrinth of intermingled blossom. Here clumps of laburnums
                        showered their vegetable gold over the delicate cloud-like bloom of the
                        lilac trees, there—like some gigantic chandelier on which May has kindled
                        ten thousand tapers—a broad-boughed chestnut tree held its roseate blossoms
                        aloft; while yonder, most poignant scented of flowers, pale jasmine stars
                        gleamed athwart the gloomy green of their foliage.
                    Yes; the flowers had mustered in full force! It seemed as though in their hot
                        haste to put in an appearance at this festival, which they apparently
                        regarded as given in their honour, some had hardly given themselves, time to
                        smooth their petals, which looked as though still tumbled from sleep.
                    And now that the flowers were there to receive them, the children likewise
                        appeared on the scene. For this was pre-eminently a children's festival, and
                        the enjoyment of the grown-up folk consisted, to a great extent, in watching
                        that of their little ones. According to custom, most of the young girls were
                        clad in white, and a prettier sight could hot well be imagined than that of
                        children of all ages now gradually assembling on the lawn which they were to
                        have entirely to themselves for their games and dances.
                    Their elders meanwhile were sitting round the numerous little tables, where
                        the feminine occupants chiefly consumed coffee and cakes, while their male
                             relatives solaced themselves with beer
                        and tobacco. The mammas, it need scarcely be said, were fully occupied in
                        admiring their children, and were constantly circulating backwards and
                        forwards between them and their seats. The young ladies, whose turn was to
                        come later in the evening, when there was to be a ball in the pavilion, were
                        now walking about by twos and threes, or standing in groups, chatting and
                        laughing with the young men, few of whom had arrived as yet; others, again,
                        were busily flitting hither and thither amongst the children.
                    Just as the orchestra struck up one of Strauss's animating waltzes, two men
                        engaged in eager conversation issued from a by-path and seated themselves at
                        one of the tables, so as to command a full view of the entire festive
                        scene.
                    "I have hardly yet recovered from the pleasant surprise of meeting you thus
                        unexpectedly!" ejaculated one, whose portly proportions were unmistakably
                        those of Professor Sontheim. "To think that you have actually been here
                        three whole weeks, and only now made yourself known to your old comrade!
                        Shame, shame, Emanuel! But you always were a whimsical, unaccountable
                        fellow, for all your genius. I bet that, according to our proverb, you'll
                        only cut your wisdom teeth at forty, true son of Suabia that you are."
                    The other laughed, and said, "That's right, Leopold; I see you have not
                        forgotten your old views respecting me. I remember how, when we were
                        long-haired students together, you used to express them to me with that
                        charming courtesy and candour for which we were renowned. You, I remember,
                        used to be considered  the sentimental
                        savage of our circle, and we even nicknamed you 'Isegrimm.' But now you
                        have, to all appearance, developed into a full-grown élégant," glancing slightly at the fashionable points of his
                        friend's costume.
                    "Well, well," rejoined Sontheim, not without complacency, "from the raw youth
                        to the man of the world there's room for progress. Life, I begin to find, is
                        not such a bad invention after all. Once I was as defenceless as an
                        unfledged chicken, and drew in my horns at every breath; but now I'm armed
                        like a porcupine, and able to hold my own against man—and woman too."
                    "Then hold your own with the waiter and catch him as he passes, or our wit
                        may run too dry," the stranger remarked in bantering tone.
                    "Now he is here, in what liquor fit for the gods shall we celebrate this
                        auspicious meeting, Emanuel?"
                    "Let's have Johannisberger," said the one addressed, "for so joyful a meeting
                        can only be drunk to in the most precious of wines."
                    "I have no objection to make;" replied the other, slightly raising his
                        eyebrows. "But, now that I think of it," he added, with a comically pensive
                        expression, "the good old adage recommends wine after beer, but deprecates
                        beer after wine. Yes, yes! it's never wise to neglect these saws. Waiter!
                        some bottles of Bairish beer and a bottle
                        of Johannisberger."
                    Characteristic of the two men was the beverage each had selected; indeed,
                        broadly speaking, all Germans might be classified as either beer-imbibers or
                        wine-imbibers, and such a classification might well take the place of
                        ethnographical or political subdivisions.
                    
                    Thus no greater contrast could have been found than these two friends, who
                        seemed to have met after a long lapse of years. One huge of bulk, ruddy of
                        face, and "puffed up" with health, as it were; the other tall and thin of
                        person, slightly hollow-chested, and seeming rather to be borne along than
                        to walk, with eyes of chameleon tints, and long, strong hair that always
                        seemed to have a storm in it. The same character was expressed in the hands,
                        with their knotted veins, never for an instant still; they might have served
                        as models for some saint's or martyr's, so expressive of spiritual energy
                        were the long, pale fingers.
                    "After all, 'on revient toujours à ses premiers amours!'" the latter abruptly
                        exclaimed, as with a mixture of humour and pathos he looked at the scene
                        before him. "What innocence, freshness, simplicity reigns here, Leopold!
                        What artless joy in young and old! Look at those children there, crowned as
                        of old with moss and flowers, and dancing in a ring! And those sturdy,
                        broad-cheeked youngsters defiling in procession two and two, bearing
                        branches of birch and oak and elder. Just look at those blooming girls all
                        in white, their long tresses plaited with ribbons, carrying wild
                        strawberries and cream and milk rolls to feed those little ones there. It
                        makes my mouth water, I swear. Wouldn't I like to be that small urchin
                        yonder whom the tall girl is feeding so daintily with her own beautiful
                        fingers, for fear, I suppose, of his daubing himself all over with the juice
                        of her fruit."
                    While thus talking with a certain whimsical tone in his voice, the stranger
                        every now and then cast a quick, searching look from end to end of the
                        garden; and  suddenly, after one of those
                        rapid glances, he said to his friend, "Leopold, do you ever think of Elfrida
                        now?"
                    The latter, who, though giving an occasional approving glance at the scene
                        around him, had been more engaged in he demolition of an enormous black
                        raddish, now drew the knife, with which he had helped himself to a piece of
                        Swiss cheese, from between his lips, and said, with lugubrious mock
                        gravity—
                    "I also was born in Arcadia, therefore it's hardly fair to remind me of how
                        you supplanted me. But, to be serious, tell me about your life, Emanuel—your
                        works, your plans for the future, whence you come thus abruptly, where you
                        are going to from here. Why, you have not even vouchsafed to tell me your
                        reason for stealing upon us thus incognito, for all the world like Zeus when
                        engaged in the pursuit of some fair mortal maid! Come, I'm not to be
                        blinded; confess, therefore, confess as you were wont, old fellow. And
                        console yourself in advance, my son, with the reflection that, the more
                        heinous your sins, the more soothing will it be to receive absolution for
                        them. Ah," he continued, stroking his portly double chin, "I really possess
                        the chief requisites of a father confessor. Begin; I listen."
                    Emanuel laughed impatiently, and, shrugging his shoulders, said, "Do you not
                        see, Leopold, that I shrank from the idea of the fuss that would be made? My
                        life turns perpetually in a dazzling, deafening circle. I eat, drink, work,
                        talk, even sleep in a fever. Ah, you here in Arcadia know nothing of the
                        incessant wear and excitement of life in great cities."
                    
                    "Arcadia!" grunted the Professor, parenthetically. "I see you have forgotten
                        our coffee parties and carnivals."
                    "It may seem unkind, Leopold," the other continued, "that I even avoided you
                        on my first arrival; but you will understand me when I tell you that I
                        needed—I might almost say, for the sake of my reason, absolutely needed—this
                        short spell of complete solitude."
                    Leopold Sontheim took his friend's emaciated hand in his own broad fleshy
                        one, and gave it a strong but silent grip.
                    "Yes," continued Emanuel, softly, "I will tell you some day, when we have
                        greater privacy, for what more particular reason I craved with an exceeding
                        craving for silence, obscurity, peace. After an absence of well-nigh twenty
                        years I was suddenly seized with a burning desire to revisit once more the
                        scenes and places of my childhood.
                    "It was in Paris, in a crowded concert-room, when this wish seized me.
                        Suddenly, as in the vividness of a dream, the hills, the woods, the
                        vineyards of my native town rose beckoningly before me; I heard the swallow
                        call me, and the stork, and the passionate sob of the nightingale wailed
                        from afar: 'Why tarriest thou so long?' How describe the kind of pang I
                        endured! A hot, stinging sense of remorse enveloping my whole past, a fierce
                        thirst to plunge back into memories in which my tired senses might be
                        refreshed as in a bath. 'Home, home!' it cried in me. And that same evening
                        I settled my affairs as well as I could, took the post-cabriolet to
                        Strasburg, and then came on here, on one of those beautiful spring mornings
                        when everything in  the world seems to be
                        born again except the poor human heart.
                    "As I walked through the dear, drowsy streets of my native town; as I saw the
                        blue hills nodding in on every street, I seemed to myself like a ghost
                        revisiting the scenes of his former existence.
                    "I did not dare look at my father's house in the daytime—the house whence I
                        had fled, which I had been forbidden to re-enter; and, before I could return
                        and heal the bitter breach, he, whose creed had barred heart and home
                        against me, had passed away suddenly, without word or sign. Only in the
                        quiet moonlight, when I could venture near unseen, did I dare pace to and
                        fro on the pavement in front of it.
                    "The same old elm trees still rustled in the night air as when I stood a
                        child at my mother's knee, repeating some hymn to her, or looking over the
                        pictures of the old family Bible; but the familiar faces had vanished for
                        ever!
                    "I could not bear it. I hurried away, Do you guess the spot I re-visited
                        next? The wood, the wood, of course, Leopold. I went up the well-known hill,
                        and the delicate scent of the new-blown vines smote my nerves with a pang of
                        mingled pleasure and pain.
                    "But in the lapse of years, probably also owing to my excitement, I had
                        forgotten the way, and went now to the right, now to the left, sniffing the
                        air like a dog who has lost his master's trail.
                    "At last, however, I came upon a landmark—the little house commonly known as
                        the Raven's hut, where the grandmother of Elfrida used to live. There it was
                        with the bees humming about the blossoms, strangely  unaltered, yet, no doubt, long ago vacated by
                        that kindly old dame who once moved so briskly about amongst her bee-hives,
                        followed by the child and the old raven!
                    "Suddenly, however, I came to a dead stand. Who was that propping up a young
                        plant against the wall? stooping painfully at her task? a lame raven limping
                        stiffly at her side? Was it possible the beautiful child had been dead and
                        buried so long, and that these two aged ones had remained unchanged,
                        untouched by time and death!
                    "With my heart beating violently, and trembling like a thief who dreads
                        detection, I begged her to show me the nearest way to the Engelswald. There
                        was no fear, however, of her recognizing me. The years had changed me out of
                        all semblance to the favoured boy she was wont to entrust with Elfrida's
                        care.
                    "She looked up at me with just the face I knew, and, pointing down, said,
                        'Keep straight along this path till you come to a brook further down, then
                        turn to the left; following its course it will take you straight to a pool
                        which is the finest bit of the wood. It is well worth a stranger's while to
                        visit.' The raven had limped up to me, and, cocking his head in such a
                        fashion that his sound eye gazed straight up at me, his look of unfathomable
                        sagacity seemed darkly to hint that it was labour lost to try and come over
                        him.
                    "I strode on rapidly; I felt as if I had seen a ghost.
                    "'Here I am at last,' cried I, catching sight of the water glimmering through
                        the grey trunks of the beech trees.
                    "As I looked down into that still, deep pool, across  whose surface the cloud-shadows drifted so
                        languidly, there rose upon my soul, pathetic as the moon at midday, the
                        memory of my first love. The present was annihilated. I was a boy once more.
                        My heart beat high with the first ecstatic thrill of hope and love.
                    "'Here,' I cried, 'are the trees which I climbed to get the birds' nests in
                        order to show her the speckled eggs so warmly and tenderly pressed each to
                        each. Yonder is the thicket where I gathered whortleberries and hazelnuts!
                        On the brink of this pool Elfrida used to sit, dabbling her rosy feet in the
                        water, and with innocent coquetry watching the reflection of her beautiful
                        face therein.'
                    "'Oh, beautiful face! never has thy image left my heart, image of my first
                        love; would to heaven thou hadst been my last also. To die so young! Never
                        to wait till I came back to lay fame and wealth and love at your feet as I
                        had sworn I would. To die and leave me behind in a world where no one was
                        ever again so intimately twined with my heart-strings!'
                    "Restlessly I paced the narrow woodland paths, and a pang of ineffable
                        yearning seized me for the child that was dead, had been dead and buried
                        long, long years ago. Then—as all that lay between that first pure love and
                        the present swept in one bitter wave of remembrance through my memory—I
                        flung myself on the ground in a passion of sorrow, crying out, 'Elfrida,
                        come back, oh, come back to me!'
                    "The sound of voices, the rustle of a dress, recalled me to my senses. Loth
                        to meet anything in human shape just then, I slid behind a clump of
                        trees.
                    "'Good God! was I mad or dreaming? Was this 
                        Elfrida come to life again at my call? the dead child re-risen, with the
                        violets and daisies growing on her grave?'
                    "I stared blankly at the apparition; I passed my hand over my eyes, only
                        thinking her one more spectral form come to haunt me on the paths we had
                        trodden together in bygone years.
                    "But no! this was no dead child come to life again; neither was it a spirit
                        of wood and water, though the hem of its dress was wet as a naiad's, and its
                        hands were, at that moment, stretched out in fond protection over beasts and
                        birds like a beneficent fairy's. And yet, when it lifted its eyes to me,
                        those eyes shining as with morning dew, I felt inexpressibly bewildered and
                        amazed. Those eyes, with the wide, unconscious gaze, so distinct in my mind
                        from all others, were the eyes of Elfrida.
                    "I had hard work not to say to her, 'So you have come at last, my child!
                        Come, when I called on you in utter weariness of heart. Do not leave me
                        again. Stay, oh stay!'
                    "Nothing could have been more familiar than her presence. I had great ado not
                        to take her in my arms. But before I had time to recover my presence of
                        mind, before I had time to do anything but take off my hat and bow like a
                        fool, she went her way, and the sun seemed to follow her."
                    "Why, it all ends in smoke, like 'the shooting at Hornberg,'" grunted
                        Professor Sontheim. "I expected some grand coup de
                            théâtre at the last, worthy of the consummate artist. Take my
                        word for it, your fairy nymph or spectre was in sober truth nothing but a
                             little goose of a girl, who most
                        likely had stolen to the wood on the sly that she might wash her face in
                        maydew, which our silly maids hereabouts credit not only with unlimited
                        curative qualities for removing freckles, sunburn, &c., but with an
                        occult power of making them beautiful for ever. But you waved your wand of
                        magic before her, and straightway she was transformed into a divinity."
                    "Let's have a bowl of maitrank, Leopold,"
                        said Emanuel, with a faint ironical smile. "Perhaps after a sufficient
                        number of fragrant draughts you also will see fairies in all the fair ones
                        about us."
                    "Maitrank, capital! I will go at once and
                        see after the ingredients myself." And the Professor went towards the
                        pavilion with as much haste as his bulky stature admitted.
                    He had scarcely left his seat, however, than Emanuel, who had again
                        restlessly glanced about him, gave a start, and then for a moment or two
                        evidently subsided into brooding oblivion of everything around. Suddenly, as
                        if an idea had struck him, he left his seat with a vivacity peculiar to him,
                        and strode to the stand where the musicians, after their vigorous efforts,
                        had ceased playing for awhile. Unobserved, he made his way to the leader of
                        the first violins and whispered something in his ear. The man almost bounded
                        from his chair, but at a word from the stranger assumed an air of unconcern,
                        and in another moment had quietly yielded him up his seat and violin.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    COMING OUT.
                    THE festival at the Silberburg was a more than commonly important one to the
                        Lichtenfeld family; for it was to be the occasion of Mina's introduction to
                        society; an event equally thrilling to maidens, be they denizens of
                        "Krähwinkel" or Belgravia.
                    The coming event had cast its all-engrossing shadow across the good widow's
                        thoughts for at least a month beforehand; and she might often have been seen
                        in deep consultation with the seamstress, the maid of all work and her
                        neighbourly gossips, Frau Obertribunalprocurator Hopfengärtner and Frau
                        Scherer.
                    These two latter ladies had been summoned one afternoon by the anxious mother
                        to discuss and critically weigh in the balance the respective merits of
                        pink, white, and azure. It was a knotty point, and so the ladies found it
                        over their cups of afternoon coffee. We must remark, however, by way of
                        parenthesis, that  the occasion had not
                        seemed to warrant the Frau Professorinn in having fresh coffee made for her
                        guests, who were consequently now imbibing a rather indifferent-looking
                        beverage, which, carefully saved at breakfast time, had since then been put
                        to warm in the oven.
                    "If I were you. I should decide in favour of pink," said the Frau
                        Obertribunalprocurator, emphatically; "pink is a sweet pretty colour, and,
                        to my thinking, always so becoming to dark eyes such as your Mina's."
                    "'Jugendzeit, Rosenzeit,' as the poet has it," lisped Frau Scherer, who,
                        under the impression of its imparting a certain elegance, habitually
                        garnished her discourse with stray verses, proverbs, and pickings from her
                        brother's talk. Such sentences, however, had frequently as little connection
                        with her own words as the bits of parsley have with the cold mutton they are
                        supposed to adorn.
                    "Yes, yes," murmured Frau Lichtenfeld, pensively; "a great deal is to be said
                        in favour of pink, a very great deal. Now that I think of it, it was pink,
                        so it was, that I wore at my first ball." And she complacently smoothed out
                        the folds of her apron and gave a knowing smile, which implied more plainly
                        than her words could: "Ah, what conquests I could tell of, what triumphs,
                        friends; and all owing to that pink dress, and those roses of genuine
                        Parisian make. That was the time, dear Frau Obertribunalprocurator, you
                        remember my telling you, that the Chevalier von Tor said to me, in a burst
                        of enthusiasm, 'Ah, beautiful Fräulein had I met such an enchanting vision
                        of youth and beauty in days when I might have—ah—summoned up the
                        courage—yes, the courage of 
                             aspi-
                            aspiring
                        
                         ring—ah—I should not be a lonely old
                        bachelor—ah—but—
                    "What do you say to blue, now?" remorselessly broke in the Frau
                        Obertribunalprocurator, interrupting these tender reminiscences which she
                        knew from a hundred previous experiences would meander on for at least half
                        an hour if not turned, into other channels by a sudden diversion.
                    "Blue's heaven's own hue so tender and true!" exclaimed Frau Scherer,
                        enthusiastically. "How heavenly sweet the maiden will look attired in a
                        sky-blue robe!"
                    Therese, the seamstress, who, perched on a high step in the window, was
                        deftly turning Frau Lichtenfeld's old-fashioned grey brocade that had been
                        on duty these twenty years, now leaned forward to join in the conversation.
                        She did half the dressmaking in the town, and was quite a character in her
                        way. Not only was she considered a kind of genius for the skill with which
                        her nimble fingers turned old dresses into new, and appealed to in the last
                        resort as to all matters of taste and fashion; but her knowledge as to what
                        was, had been, and would be worn by every lady, whether of high or low
                        degree, amounted to the miraculous.
                    "Begging your pardon, gracious ladies," she said, while stitching away as
                        fast as ever; "and if I may be permitted to tender my humble opinion, I
                        should say white—white—nothing but white is the colour for a girl to wear on
                        first coming out. There's the daughter, now, of the Frau Baronin, Fräulein
                        von Berlichingen. She came out this winter, you know, and of course you have
                        all heard how much she was admired. The sweet young lady won't let any one
                        but 'my Therese,' as she  calls me, make
                        her dresses, even those she goes to court in. Well, I made her a plain white
                        gown of the finest 'Donna Maria gauze;' nothing but that, honoured Frau
                        Professorinn."
                    This argument did not fail of the powerful impression it was intended to
                        create.
                    "White, the colour of innocence!" exclaimed Frau Scherer, with enthusiasm,
                        "the garb of the lamb and——" She stopped cudgelling her unwilling brains to
                        think of something else that should be equally appropriate, when Therese
                        came to her rescue by adding—" and of the gänseblümchen" (the little goose-flower, as daisies ace
                        called in South Germany). "Yes," she continued, "the gracious Fräulein Agnes
                        von Berlichingen wore her dress trimmed with daisies; and a wreath of the
                        same flowers in her hair."
                    "Oh, our Mina will look like an angel of light!" cried Frau Scherer,
                        ecstatically, casting her eyes to the ceiling—for such was her wont.
                    "The girl will do well enough," said the Frau Professorinn; but added, with a
                        sigh drawn from the depths of her maternal bosom, "Alas, she, is as careless
                        of dress as a tomboy, and I foresee already what a sight she will be when,
                        all rags and tatters, she comes home in the evening. Well, Therese, I think
                        we have settled this point so far. You shall make us a dress the exact
                        counterpart of Fräulein von Berlichingen's, only it must be of mulled muslin
                        instead of gauze—a poor widow like me with six children left on her hands,
                        you know, Therese, can't go spending money like a Frau Baronin, for all that
                        she is, or once was, the ninth daughter of Medicinalrath Duttenhofer, and
                        could hold up her head  with the best of
                        them; and so, as I was saying, my daughter must not be a disgrace to him, in
                        spite of her taking after her poor father's family; and she can't be got to
                        understand, though I may talk myself hoarse to make her; and as to the
                        daisies, Therese, we can get those for nothing in our garden; she's for ever
                        lugging flowers into the house as I tell her—but it'll come in useful for
                        once,—they won't be so genteel, I know, as the sweet artificial flowers at
                        Madame Borrel's; but we must cut the coat according to the cloth, you
                        know."
                    After having arrived at this important decision the ladies set out in a body
                        to purchase twelve yards of muslin at Kübel's, the chief draper and
                        haberdasher in the Lange Strasse.
                    The eventful day had come at last, and, like a sheep led to the slaughter,
                        Mina yielded herself up with passive resignation into her mother's hands.
                        She had been looking forward with wondering eagerness to this day, but the
                        rites of the toilet appeared to her to detract considerably from the
                        pleasures to come, and under her mother's vigorous handling she lost all
                        sense but that of present discomfort. Besides the maternal hands, two other
                        pairs were busy about her person. At last, being judged sufficiently
                        prepared, the cloudy fabric, white as a snowdrift, with touches of pale pink
                        here and there, was carefully passed over the girl's curly head by the
                        adroit fingers of Therese.
                    Frau Lichtenfeld stood a little to the right watching the progressive effect
                        of the toilet with knitted brows, compressed lips, and occasional h'ms and
                        ha's. She looked on with that air of superior critical acumen, only rarely
                        lapsing into admiration, which would not 
                        have misbecome a dramatic critic on whose sealed lips trembles the verdict
                        to make or mar a first appearance.
                    Quite the reverse was the feeling with which Sabina, the maid of all work,
                        whose mouth, stuck full of pins, presented the appearance of a pincushion,
                        gazed on the same spectacle.
                    "Don't stand there like a graven image, child!" remonstrated Frau
                        Lichtenfeld. "How can I or Therese judge of the fit if you stand with your
                        limbs stiffer than broomsticks? One would suppose from your doleful air that
                        you were expecting to undergo an operation instead of being dressed for a
                        ball. In my young days we girls looked more alive on such an occasion."
                    Therese, by way of averting the lecture that she saw impending over her
                        favourite, now exclaimed—
                    "Doesn't the dress suit her to perfection, Frau Professorin?"
                    And she eyed her handiwork with proud content.
                    "Sabina, you may call the children now," said Mina's mother, sitting down in
                        a chair to test a moment from her labours, and blandly eyeing her daughter
                        much as she would have done a specially successful Mandeltorte, for the confection of which she had acquired
                        just celebrity.
                    On the cessation of the manipulations Mina was bid to take a look at herself
                        in the glass. She did so, but grew hot and abashed, and turned quickly away.
                        She so rarely looked at herself thus consciously that she shrank from the
                        inspection with instinctive shamefacedness.
                    Suddenly the door opened with a bang, and the boys tore in with Lulu at their
                        heels. For a moment the latter gazed in astonishment, not unmingled with
                        fear,  at the figure in the white cloud;
                        then, scuttling across the room to her mother, she buried her head in the
                        stiff folds of her gown, only now and then peeping shyly round out of the
                        corner of one blue eye. The boys meanwhile stood in a row, staring
                        open-mouthed, with their thumbs in their mouths, at the sister, whom they
                        hardly recognized in her present transformation from chrysalis to
                        butterfly.
                    "Is it the fairy Magelone?" whispered Conrad, a boy of about seven, just now
                        deep in fairy lore.
                    "Perhaps it's Christkindchen," replied
                        Otto, tentatively, but was instantly crushed by Conrad's scornful
                        exclamation—
                    "Did you ever hear of Christkindchen coming
                        at Whitsuntide?"
                    "What's Therese been doing to her eyes, mamma, that they shine so?" lisped
                        Lulu, under her breath.
                    "You little goosey," said Conrad, who had now recovered from his surprise;
                        "Therese doesn't polish sister's eyes as you did your doll's yesterday when
                        you had pushed one of them in; it's the Silberburg she is thinking of."
                    Lulu tittered and took another shy peep, without changing her position,
                        however; and Otto and Conrad, now sufficiently emboldened, made a rush
                        forward in order to convince themselves, apparently, by such tests as
                        pinching, &c., that this beautiful creature and their sister were
                        one and the same person.
                    They were warned off in time, however, by their mother, who, in her sternest,
                        most impressive tones, now shouted, "Hands off, or I lay on the rod!"
                    Everybody seemed ready at last. The Frau 
                        Professorinn surveyed her brood with an approving glance, while putting on
                        her long, knitted black silk mittens, which she considered of a finer effect
                        by night than the new-fangled white kid gloves, besides—as she remarked
                        confidentially to whoever she could get for a listener—having the wear of
                        half a dozen of the latter.
                    But just as they were starting it appeared that Wolfgang, her favourite, was
                        missing.
                    "Where is he? Who has seen him?" she asked, with an ominous ring in her
                        voice, implying that they were one and all responsible for his
                        disappearance. "I got him ready more than an hour ago," she continued, with
                        waxing wrath, "and bade him be sure and not rumple his hair again."
                    So instead of starting as it was high time they did, the whole family had to
                        begin hunting for Wolf. They searched high and low, in the house and out of
                        it, but could nowhere come upon any trace of the culprit.
                    Under these aggravating circumstances what wonder that the Frau
                        Professorinn's temper, after the manner of a weathercock, from due south
                        should be veering round in a threateningly north-eastern direction. It was
                        not good just then to dare to face the biting current of her speech. Every
                        one in turn was more or less accused of being the cause or the accomplice of
                        Wolf's mysterious disappearance.
                    After long searching Hans shouted from the gloomiest depths of the coal-hole,
                        "Here he is, mother; I've got him safe!"
                    The Frau Professorinn immediately hastened to the rescue, and between them
                        they dragged the recalcitrant Wolf to the light of day.
                    
                    Ah, what a sight here met the horrified mother's eyes! Black, black from head
                        to foot, her sooty son scowled defiance at his captors. After one or two
                        spasmodic attempts, however, to recover his liberty, he submitted with the
                        dignity of a savage chief to the melancholy fate awaiting him.
                    "Behold, the king of the Blackamoors led into captivity!" cried the
                        irrepressible Hans as, whooping and shouting, he followed his brothers in
                        the steps of the runaway.
                    But poor Hans, instead of being rewarded for having effected the capture of
                        the deserter, was grimly told to hold his tongue on peril of being shut up
                        in the coal-hole himself.
                    For the second time that day the miserable Wolf had to undergo the ordeal by
                        soap and water. But when at last he emerged from that detested operation, he
                        looked—but for a little shininess about the cheeks and nose—as handsome a
                        boy as could well gladden a mother's eyes. He was, however, at the age when
                        the idea of having to encounter a lot of young ladies fevered his blood, and
                        caused the tips of his ears to burn as the approach of cannons might. And he
                        often told Hans, who was his confidant when they were not at daggers drawn,
                        that he would far rather face an angry bull, or even his mother on
                        washing-day, than those girls that did nothing but giggle and whisper
                        together in corners, and made a fellow beside himself with anger and
                        dislike. As it seemed impossible to escape a second time, he submitted with
                        the stoicism of a philosopher.
                    Thus the Lichtenfelds were under weigh at length.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    MUSICAL PICTURES.
                    IT might have been a few minutes after the Lichtenfelds' arrival, in the
                        thick of the merry-making, that the stranger, whom the Professor had
                        addressed as Emanuel, had taken the seat and instrument of the first
                        violinist.
                    No one probably had noticed this substitution; and even when the new musician
                        began playing a solo, a variation on a pathetic old Volkslied; hardly any one listened with the attention
                        necessary to discern that this indeed was the performance of a master
                        hand.
                    The fact was, that although every South German is more or less born with the
                        singing soul, yet such a tumult of joyous excitement filled the place that
                        it was well-nigh impossible to give ear to the music, even had the people
                        been desirous of doing so.
                    Indeed, the performance on this occasion bore a strong resemblance to that of
                        a London drawing-room in the season, as its function apparently consisted in
                             promoting a clatter of talking and
                        laughter. The little folk, it is true, had been having a good many dances,
                        to the accompaniment, as they fondly deluded themselves, of music. This was
                        a fiction, however. Between dancers and fiddlers reigned absolute divorce;
                        and a merry wag of a boy, with his hand behind his ear, kept rushing to and
                        fro between the two, in order to let each of the parties know what the other
                        was about just then.
                    Nevertheless, one man, probably a musician, pricked up his ears at the very
                        first notes, and, pushing close up to the stand, remained leaning against
                        the woodwork with folded arms, now fixing his eyes on the violinist, now
                        half shutting them, then softly nodding his head or again shaking it, with
                        the air of a person divided between approval and amazement. Before long
                        others among the crowd, either musicians themselves or connoisseurs of
                        music, began to gather in knots round the orchestra, and, while listening
                        eagerly, to occasionally exchange looks and whispers of astonishment.
                    Gradually the spell began to work on the whole crowd of these South German
                        holiday-makers.
                    Little by little the groups that had been desultorily strolling through the
                        devious paths and alleys of the garden thronged to the centre, pressing
                        towards the neighbourhood of the orchestra. Little by little men left off
                        jingling their glasses, women and girls forgot their chatter, and waiters
                        ceased hurrying to and fro. At last the very children desisted from their
                        games, and stood or lay on the grass nestling together by twos and threes,
                        the smallest of them with their flaxen heads lying in their sisters' laps,
                        and fresh bare legs and arms looking like ruddy fruit scattered about the
                        grass.
                    
                    The crowd, which had grown denser and denser, pressed quite to the garden's
                        edge in a semicircle, while the fortunate possessors of chairs and benches
                        sat closely together on each side of the green, the latter, by common
                        consent, being left in possession of the children.
                    Nothing exalts the heart more than seeing a mass of people thus swayed by one
                        common emotion. We then consciously realize the solidarity of those human
                        units, each of which, bent on its individual desires, aims, and passions,
                        seems often so indifferent, alas! even so antagonistic, to its fellows.
                    Once, however, let the vital impulse of some mastermind go forth like an
                        invisible presence among a multitude consisting of many mixed, nay,
                        incongruous elements; let them feel the electric thrill of that occult
                        demoniac force we call genius—that instant one and all are called out of,
                        beyond themselves, that instant they are liberated from the dull, cold
                        obstruction of self, are made partakers of intellectual beauty, are made
                        inheritors of spiritual force; merged, confounded, absorbed in one universal
                        element of delight, worship, beatitude.
                    Such divine power of fusion abides, above all, in music; and beneath its
                        irresistible influence, here, in that promiscuous throng, all
                        hearts—whatever the throb of their individual sorrow, joy, hope, despair,
                        love, or ambition—yearned, heaved, and inclined beneath the sway of that
                        melodious compulsion, as we see the countless leaves of a forest, or blades
                        of meadow grass, bending as with one individual will beneath the breath of
                        summer winds.
                    And here forsooth—here in this garden laughing all  over with the flowers of May—there stood
                            one who suddenly, with the witchcraft of his playing,
                        startled the dullest, kindled the coldest, roused the saddest, to life and
                        enthusiasm.
                    What had come to the musician, though? What change had been wrought in his
                        countenance since he woke those ineffable lengthening sounds of yearning
                        from the shivering strings?
                    He stood there like some wizard, consumed with the energy he emits, who with
                        his bow constrains to his bidding the illimitable host of sounds.
                    But how render in words what only the ear can appraise and transmit?
                    There are minds, however, which have the faculty of translating sounds into
                        colours and visible shapes of delight, to whom the theme of sonata or
                        symphony assumes the outline and proportion of objects clearly projected on
                        the inner vision. This quality, which has since been developed into a new
                        art manifestation by the great musicians of the present, was clearly
                        discernible in the wondrous tone-poem, which, in a series of musical
                        pictures, gave, as it were, an allegory of love. Love, in its twofold
                        nature, swaying man's destinies for good or evil, now uplifting his soul in
                        a passion of aspiration, now hurling him down disillusioned and despairing,
                        to be finally guided through labyrinthine error to ideal attainment.
                    It began with a sort of barcarolle movement in allegretto, illustrative of
                        dipping oars and of singing mouths, where a boat, gliding across the
                        reflection of the mystical white face of the moon that yearned to the
                        sunset, approached the lake-washed stairs of a marble palace.
                    
                    And as the boat drew near and nearer, a youth on the topmost flight saw a
                        beautiful woman at the prow, crowned with roses and waving a red rose-bough
                        in her hand; and the hue and fragrance of the roses was reflected and
                        multiplied a thousandfold in the sky, in the water, in the features of the
                        woman glowing like a celestial rose.
                    She held her rose-bough out to the youth whose step rang clear, as bounding
                        down the marble stairs, he leaped into the boat.
                    Back across the lake glided the boat, and from afar was borne a sound of
                        singing—the voice of one singing the quest of the deathless rose of
                        love.
                    
                    Is this a sound of tears, or of falling rain that now, in tremulous adagio
                        measure, seems splashing through the moonless night? the weeping of one that
                        sorroweth, or but the wailing of winds through the wet, shaken boughs?
                    Hissing and shuddering, the rushes stoop to the water-stoop round the
                        stranded boat with its riven sails, stoop round the forsaken youth whose
                        tears mingle with the driving rain, with the drifting petals of the
                        roses.
                    "Why weepest thou?" cried one, hurrying towards him, flushed and panting in
                        the van of a jubilant throng.
                    "What, the storm has ravished thy roses! Come! I will lead thee to bowers
                        where fresh ones are blowing, which now, even now that thou tarriest here,
                        wait but thy gathering. Fool! if thou wouldst have eternal roses, bid death
                        pilot thee to the stars."
                    
                    
                    To what shrill, rapid, passionate pulsations do those stricken minor chords
                        respond? Now piercing with strange discords, now liquidly dissolving in
                        voluptuous languishment.
                    Then, returning to the major key (allegro), a troop of revellers rush
                        tumultuously through the bountiful summer-world now as on fire with
                        roses.
                    Hither and thither they sway; some with rhythmically flying feet lead the
                        entrammelled youth through labyrinths of scented gloom; some lure him to
                        fields of somnolent poppies clouding the sense with sleep; some pelt him
                        with roses, a red rain of incessant maddening roses.
                    A strident clangorous chord like an ear-piercing cry harshly jarring the
                        noon—the revellers fly asunder, abandoning the youth—pierced and stricken to
                        death with the cruel thorns of the silken roses.
                    
                    Low, faint, and unearthly, without rhythmic subdivisions, in sounds almost
                        too thin for mortal ear, the muted violin seems to exhale itself with the
                        departing spirit, while interspersed fitful staccato notes follow one by one
                        like receding life-blood, slowly ebbing, dying away.
                    
                    A silence as of suspended breathing pervaded the listening crowd on the
                        momentary cessation of the music. They forgot to applaud; they instinctively
                        shrank from breaking the charm of those divinest sounds.
                    But what had come to Mina? What made her heart throb with an emotion almost
                        painful in its intensity?  It so happened
                        that she sat right in front, facing the musician, and he, this ruler of the
                        realm of sound, this despot at whose command the multitude wept, rejoiced,
                        exulted, despaired, was the same—she knew it instinctively—whose music had
                        floated in through her open window, once and again, these nights of spring!
                        Hitherto it had been an unbodied voice, insinuating itself with the
                        unforbidden moonlight into her chamber; now it was more incomprehensible
                        still!
                    But the pause was brief: the musician's sense of completeness was not yet
                        satisfied.
                    Once more the key changed, the movement quickened, and from the foregoing
                        expiring sounds burst into an allegro vivacissimo. Dizzily whizzed the bow,
                        waking from the inexhaustible strings a myriad quivering scintillations of
                        sound through which the dominant motive of final victory, that had from time
                        to time reappeared through the whole fantasia, finally culminated in one
                        supreme melody as the mystic rose of heaven appeared to love's martyred
                        pilgrim above the perishing roses of earth.
                    
                    It was over. The people applauded, shouted, laughed, yelled with delight.
                        Again and again the thunder of acclamations burst forth as though it could
                        have no ending. When at last the unknown musician was suffered to come down
                        the steps, the holiday-makers began looking at each other in astonishment,
                        and asking each other eagerly who this wonderful violinist could be; and
                        when it became generally known that he was their own fellow-townsman come
                        back amongst  them, the man with whose fame
                        all Europe had rung, their enthusiasm knew no bounds.
                    One young fellow in his transport forced his way to his side, threw himself
                        on his knees, and covered his hands with kisses; girls rifled the garden of
                        its flowers to scatter them at his feet; mothers snatched up their children
                        that they might see him the better and clap their little hands; stolid,
                        matter-of-fact citizens seemed unusually excited—all crowding round him with
                        kindled, admiring looks and words, till at last he grew weary of their
                        enthusiasm. For he glanced restlessly about him as though he were seeking an
                        outlet by which to slip away from the crowd, or else a face that was not
                        amongst it.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    ELFRIDA'S BEQUEST.
                    WHERE was Mina all this while? She had gone off by herself, stolen to the
                        shadiest, farthest corner of the garden where it sloped down to the valley;
                        and then as she pressed her hot cheeks against the hedge, large tears,
                        hotter than her cheeks, forced their way through her closed eyelids. She
                        knew not why she wept, but still wept on.
                    Her mother and some of the children found her out at last. They came
                        strolling towards her with Professor Sontheim and Frau Scherer. Emanuel had
                        succeeded in regaining his friend at last, and was introduced by the latter
                        to his widowed sister. After pouring a torrent of voluble rapture in his ear
                        she hurried after Frau Lichtenfeld, who had just begun scolding her daughter
                        for skulking away into a corner by herself.
                    Emanuel was saying, half wearily, "Let's get away from here; I'm tired out,"
                        when, abruptly seizing his friend's arm, he asked, "Who's your sister
                        talking to  just now?" and, pulling him
                        forward, he went on eagerly, "I should like to be introduced to your
                        sister's friend, now at once."
                    "Why, Emanuel," cried the other, hesitating, "introduce you to her! What
                        attraction could that good woman possess for you? Be warned in time, my
                        friend; for her tongue is a mill-wheel—once you get caught in its course
                        your wits may be mangled in the process."
                    "Never mind," said Emanuel, impatiently, "I wish to be introduced. She's the
                        sort of woman I like; she will not pester me with a lot of nonsensical cant
                        about music. These simple, unpretending sort of women repose one as much as
                        quiet fields with sheep and cows do."
                    "Repose!" repeated the Professor: "I wish you joy of the repose you will get!
                        But come along; of course I will introduce you with pleasure, considering
                        she was the wife of my best friend; but why you should wish it, when just
                        now you refused to let me present you to Fräulein von Berlichingen, our
                        beauty, who was dying to know you—is—well——"
                    "Oh, I didn't come here to see your beauties and listen to their gushing
                        talk; I have plenty of that elsewhere—more than plenty; let me have a little
                        simplicity, a little nature," said Emanuel.
                    They had reached the ladies by this time, and Sontheim presented him to Frau
                        Lichtenfeld, who had not yet done lecturing Mina for not being a bit like
                        other girls—not at all amiable—who, instead of showing some pleasure and
                        gratitude for the pretty music they had been having—and all for nothing,
                        too, as she 
                            ob-
                            observed
                        
                         served in parenthesis, had slunk away as
                        though she simply hated it. The worthy lady had got thus far in her
                        discourse when she was not a little startled and flattered by Sontheim's
                        coming up to her and introducing his famous friend, while Mina shrank still
                        farther into the shadow of the lime trees.
                    "What an unlooked-for honour," exclaimed Frau Lichtenfeld, "for one so
                        unworthy! Ah, you have given us a treat such as we never had before. And
                        Lulu, the dear pet, never felt sleepy all the time you played (and it was a
                        good long time too, and I don't think the boys were fretting to be at their
                        games, though they are sad fellows at sitting still); and then of her own
                        self she wanted to give you some flowers; but here now, my eldest girl, I
                        have just been scolding her, sir. I think she is the only one—I do think the
                        only one of us—who did not seem to enjoy your pretty fiddling. I really
                        think, as I was just telling her, that she must have been asleep the greater
                        part of the time, for she had her eyes shut fast—I saw her; and as soon as
                        she could, she went off from everybody—so churlish, I say, so strange not to
                        be fond of music. I know I have heard once—or stop, was it my dear
                        departed—heaven rest his soul—read it me? Yes, to be sure, the year Mina had
                        the measles, and I was obliged to sit up at night—yes, poor man, Mina was
                        his favourite; he quite behaved like a sensible creature that time, nor once
                        confused the medicine bottles; for there was Wolf, too, laid up with a
                        sprain which had to be rubbed with opodeldoc night and morning. Dear, dear,
                        what a terrible boy he was to be laid up (but then he always had such high
                        spirits)—takes after our family,  the
                        Duttenhofers, you see, and so does Lulu here, she's quite a comfort already
                        to me; but as I was saying—ah! to be sure, the Professor read to me while I
                        was sitting up from a book called Shakespeare—Shakespeare, Mina, wasn't it?
                        but of course you were too young then to understand. Well, I could almost
                        take my oath upon it that somebody or other in that book said only wicked
                        people didn't care for music. Not that I mean that my eldest is wicked, sir;
                        no, no, but so odd at times" (she said this, dropping her voice a little, in
                        a loud aside to her bewildered listener), "just like her blessed papa, in
                        fact, God rest his soul. Ah well, we are as God made us, I suppose, so we
                        must be content. Come here, child, though you don't deserve it, yet you
                        shall be able to tell your friends that you've been introduced to this great
                        man too. Well, well, this is an unlooked-for honour——Ah! how do you do, my
                        dear Frau Obertribunalprocurator? What fine music, wasn't it? I shall sit
                        down here with my knitting; the boys will want to have a good run after
                        sitting still so long. Oh! what's Wolf doing to Lulu? he will have her
                        rolling down the hill in another moment! Dear, dear; there they go! Oh, how
                        kind of you, dear Professor, to go and see after them! Do bring Lulu back.
                        Wolf is a good lad, but too rough for the child. I'd better come with you,
                        though."
                    Thus everybody dispersed for the moment, so that after this peculiar
                        introduction Emanuel was left standing alone with Mina. She seemed well-nigh
                        as silent as her mother was loquacious.
                    But Emanuel, who was at last able to address her, said smiling, "I am sure
                        you cannot hate music; or do  you think it
                        compares so unfavourably to the little music-makers of the woods that you
                        are so fond of? And are you aware, by the by, that you have never yet
                        thanked me for coming to the rescue of your protégées?"
                    Mina flushed at the sudden question. "Oh," she cried, partly forgetting the
                        shyness that lay so heavily on her, "it was kind to put back the nest! I was
                        so glad the poor birds were saved. Thank you, now."
                    "Would you like to have news of them?" inquired Emanuel.
                    Mina for all answer looked up with a quick, inquiring glance.
                    "Oh, I never do things by halves," he said; "having rescued them from death,
                        you know, I felt bound to watch over them from time to time. It was pretty
                        to see them trying their wings, flying farther and farther from the nest,
                        till they returned no more one fine day. I dare say they were engaged in
                        building nests of their own. It was not quite for their sakes, I own, that I
                        sought out the spot where I saw you that day in the wood—a spot endeared to
                        me before you were born, I dare say. But how came you there by yourself, and
                        so far from your home?"
                    "I had been to grandmother's," said Mina.
                    "Ah!" he cried, "your name is Lichtenfeld! Is it your
                        grandmother that lives on the hill above the wood?"
                    "Oh yes, she has a cottage there, and keeps lots of bees. Everybody knows
                        grandmother's bees for miles and miles round the town."
                    "Once," said Emanuel, with a peculiarly yearning expression, looking far away
                        across the valley, "once I  had a little
                        playfellow that I loved very fondly. Her grandmother lived in a cottage on
                        the hill-side too, and when I went away to make my fortune I promised my
                        playfellow that I would come back for her one day, and take her into the
                        great world; but when I had been gone—I forget how long—they told me that
                        she was dead. Her name was——"
                    "Elfrida," cried Mina, who for some time had been looking at him
                        intently—"Elfrida; and it was I, I who was the cause of her death!"
                    "You!" cried Emanuel, in blank amazement. "You! How is it possible?"
                    "Alas! I have sad cause to remember her, though I was such a little child. In
                        my recollection of her it seems as though she had been something too fair to
                        have ever lived amongst us like one of ourselves; she is something bright,
                        shining far off among my earliest memories, like a star at the bottom of our
                        long avenue.
                    "One day, I and another little girl went to the wood bilberrying, and Elfrida
                        came to take care of us. But she had a long, foreign-looking letter in her
                        hand——"
                    "Ah!" ejaculated Emanuel, "a letter!"
                    "This letter, I remember, she unfolded again that day for the hundredth time,
                        and began reading it, and I hated the letter, for I knew that then there was
                        no hope that day of getting Elfrida to tell me one of her stories that were
                        like none any one else ever told. So I went away pouting, and there by the
                        pool that you know saw such a flower as I had never seen the like of; and
                        then I called to mind a certain tale Elfrida had told me, of how there is a
                        flower which blow once in a hundred years, and is never seen at other times
                        by any  man. But," she said, as though
                        suddenly recollecting, "this is too childish to tell you, only you won't
                        understand——"
                    "Go on, go on," Emanuel said, eagerly, "and what came of this blue
                            flower? for blue it must have been!"
                    Mina, not without astonishment, said, "Indeed it was blue, but how do you
                        know?"
                    "Oh, because it was the fabled flower of romance that chose to reveal itself
                        to you, that's all. There are few eyes so favoured in this world, I can tell
                        you; but I am not astonished. What did you do when it showed itself? I want
                        to hear all about it from one who can give me such authentic
                        information."
                    Though not quite apprehending his meaning, Mina was too much at home in
                        fairy-land to be exactly perplexed, so she went on to say how her cousin
                        Elfrida had told her that whoever plucked this wonderful flower had only to
                        dig up the earth, Where the root was, to come upon a great treasure of gold
                        and precious stones; "and then," said Mina, "I thought how rich I would make
                        Elfrida, and how rich she would make——" Here she seemed suddenly, recalled
                        to the present by a half-stifled exclamation on her hearer's part, and
                        colouring up to the roots of her hair, said, in an apologetic tone, "I only
                        mention it because it made me quite wild all at once to pluck this flower,
                        which grew so close to the water's edge that it might have been floating on
                        it, and in my eagerness I lost my footing and fell in."
                    "What! you fell into the water?" cried Emanuel. "They ought to have taken
                        better care of you than that!"
                    "Oh no, no," said Mina, "please don't say that.  Elfrida took such care always; but you see she
                        was reading that letter."
                    "Ah!" sighed Emanuel, under his breath, "yes, I had forgotten. I was at the
                        bottom of all the mischief. And to think that it might have been your——" He
                        seemed to shrink from the idea with a shudder, and only said, "At all events
                        you were saved!"
                    "Yes," said Mina, "my screams brought Elfrida to the pool; and when she saw
                        what had happened she jumped in after me. It was not too deep for her to
                        keep her foothold at the side, and so, by clinging to the stump of a tree
                        with one hand, she just managed, after several unsuccessful attempts, to
                        clutch hold of my dress and drag me on to the shelving bank. I was quite
                        insensible when she got me out; and how she could ever have managed to carry
                        me in her arms up-hill all the way to grandmother's—which was the nearest
                        house, but still a long way, you know—none of us could ever understand. As
                        soon as she had put me in grandmother's arms she fainted clean away. The
                        other little girl had been so frightened, thinking I was dead, that she had
                        run straight away home. And Elfrida never was herself after this; they said
                        she, had taken a chill, but she grew more and more beautiful, and only a
                        little thinner and whiter, day by day, till it seemed as though she were
                        made of melting snow; and she never could bear me out of her sight then, and
                        begged them to let me stay with grandmother a little time—till—till——" Mina
                        caught her breath for a moment—" and she had my hand in hers that morning
                        she lay dying, and said to me quite low, so low it seemed a ghost speaking,
                        'Emanuel! who will welcome Emanuel now, when he comes home?'"
                    
                    "And will you welcome me?" he asked, with exceeding gentleness, and his eyes
                        had a strange watery look.
                    "Oh, yes," said Mina, simply; "Elfrida would have wished it."
                    "And is your name Elfrida, too?" he asked. "You are so like her, but like as
                        a red rose is like a white one."
                    "No, my name is Mina," she answered.
                    "Mina," he repeated slowly, as though there were some secret enchantment in
                        articulating each separate letter of the name. "Mina, I have come home at
                        last."
                    And as he spoke was it the pink sunset flush, which made the earth just than
                        appear like a glorified place, that also lit up his pale, habitually sombre
                        features, imparting to them a look of beaming peace and beatitude?
                    "Are you all here at last?" cried Frau Lichtenfeld, coming up hot and out of
                        breath, with the sobbing Lulu holding on to a corner of her shawl. "There,
                        don't cry, don't cry; it won't bring your red shoes back if you go on crying
                        till doomsday. Oh!" shaking her fist at the recalcitrant Hans, who was being
                        dragged along by Professor Sontheim, "you scapegrace, you ne'er-do-weel, you
                        wild goose, you plague of my life, you devil's imp, you—'tiger's
                        brat'—you—say what you've done with them, or I'll shake you to within an
                        inch of your life; speak when you are spoken to, can't you?"
                    "Hans," said Sontheim, with a gravity the had much ado to maintain, "Hans, my
                        boy, do not grieve your mother more by your obstinacy."
                    But Hans's lips were locked as in a vice, and he looked doggedly to the
                        ground.
                    
                    "Oh!" said Lulu, gaspingly, between her sobs, "they were playing pitch and
                        toss with them, down there, mother—and one fell into the water, and Hans
                        took t'other——" Here Hans scowled ominous warning at her, "and Hans took
                        t'other——"
                    "Yes, and he said," broke in Conrad, "'that it would fetch back the other
                        one; and don't let them part company anyhow,' he said, and flung in Lulu's
                        other shoe."
                    "Lulu's other shoe," assented Otto, divided in his sympathies between Hans
                        and Lulu, but always sticking to everything that Conrad said.
                    "My pretty shoes that grandmother gave me," sobbed out Lulu, with renewed
                        energy.
                    "There, don't cry, my pretty; she shall have another pair, she shall. But
                        however are you to get home without shoes, and the dew falling at this hour,
                        and Wolf gone off with his friends, and you such a heavy girl for your old
                        mother to carry?"
                    "Oh," said Mina, "let me carry her; I'm sure I could;" and she was bending
                        down to lift the child in her arms, when Frau Lichtenfeld cried—
                    "Will you never get any sense, Mina, or take thought for any one? What, after
                        all the pains I've taken with you, and the money it's cost, and Therese in
                        the house too, crush a bran new dress by carrying a brat all the way home!
                        Ah, it's hard on me, but I knew how it would be all along; I said so to the
                        Frau Obertribunalprocurator, and to the good Frau Scherer, I said——"
                    Emanuel, who had remained somewhat in the background watching the proceedings
                        with considerable amusement, here stepped forward, and said with his most
                        winning smile, to the indescribable astonishment  of his friend Sontheim, "If you will let me carry
                        your child, dear Madam, you will be conferring a favour."
                    "You carry Lulu, sir!" cried Frau Lichtenfeld, overwhelmed at the bare
                        notion. "Oh, impossible! Too kind of you to mention it; fancy that, now! If
                        only Fräulein von Griesbach were here—she thinks my children not
                        well-behaved—that would settle her, I should think, that would! But here we
                        are discussing all this time, and yet the poor children must be put to bed;
                        though a nice time I shall have of it, as I have to return presently with
                        Mina in time for the ball. Lulu, do cease that whimpering; Otto, don't cling
                        to my skirts."
                    Emanuel, without asking further leave, simply lifted the astonished Lulu off
                        the ground, and sitting her on his left shoulder, passed her right arm round
                        his neck, and held her fast by it. Then, turning to Frau Lichtenfeld, who
                        was talking so fast that her sentences simply came tumbling one over another
                        without stops of any kind, he said, smiling, "Pray let me have my way, for I
                        always do have it. I have so often seen men and women carrying children in
                        this way in Italy, that I am quite an adept at it. Isn't it a picturesque
                        fashion, Sontheim?"
                    Sontheim, who had been looking on with a puzzled air, said, rather
                        emphatically, "It's not the fashion here, at any rate, for us to be carrying
                        children through the streets; well, I hope you'll enjoy your walk. I must be
                        off now on some pressing business. Good-bye!"
                    "Good-bye," said Emanuel; and then, turning his face up to Lulu, asked, "Are
                        you comfortable, my child? Yes! then en
                            avant children all!" And he strode on with Frau Lichtenfeld
                        interminably discoursing to him on one side, and the blushing Mina silent on
                        the other.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER X.
                    LEOPOLD SONTHEIM'S CONFESSION.
                    IT was very early yet, barely five o'clock, but Leopold Sontheim was already
                        up and stirring, for from the back-yard of his dwelling you could hear the
                        powerful strokes of his mallet, as he was hewing the unwieldy logs of wood
                        into smaller pieces available for kitchen use. No wonder therefore that,
                        absorbed in his work, he did not catch a quick, impatient drumming at his
                        study. window, which, increasing in loudness, at last merged into a regular
                        tune. After the interval of a few minutes the window, which was only on the
                        latch, was pushed inwards, and the impatient drummer vaulted into the room,
                        and thence passed through the passage into the yard, where he suddenly
                        saluted the hard-working Sontheim with a sounding slap on the shoulder.
                    "What's the matter?" exclaimed the latter, looking up. "Oh, it's you, old
                        fellow; I'm right glad to see  you!" and he
                        cordially extended his disengaged hand, while with the other he continued to
                        direct several more blows on his iron wedge with all the zeal of an
                        amateur.
                    "What a Jack-of-all-trades you are!" remarked Emanuel, looking on. "Not
                        satisfied with being a professor of jurisprudence, an authority on
                        Aristophanes, a skilled translator from some half a dozen languages, you
                        must needs turn hewer of wood and drawer of water also!"
                    "The wood's very well, but where's the water?" asked Sontheim, grimly.
                    "Why, trickling down your nose in a little rivulet, to be sure," said
                        Emanuel, making a grimace. "But come, put down that appalling implement; one
                        would think I was an inopportune guest at this fashionable hour."
                    "Well, well," replied Sontheim, putting down his mallet, and wiping the
                        perspiration from his heated face, "laugh away, my son; but this is my way,
                        you see, of keeping down the flesh and: the devil; besides, one wants
                        something of the kind for the muscles and sinews to come into play as well
                        as the brain fibres; and here in Germany, with our eternal stooping over
                        books, we are all in danger of growing as limp as rags, and as shortsighted
                        as owls. But come in where you can sit down somewhere;" and he led the way
                        into the house. "Here's a seat for you," he added, eagerly sweeping a lot of
                        books, pamphlets, newspapers, and time-yellowed manuscripts from the shabby
                        old sofa, and clearing just enough space for his friend to sit down upon;
                        then, slipping a somewhat tattered dressing-gown  over his shirt-sleeves, he filled himself a pipe
                        and offered one to his friend. The latter, who had flung himself on the
                        sofa, and was leaning back as if quite wearied out, declined, saying that he
                        never smoked.
                    "But dear me!" exclaimed Sontheim, after looking more attentively at his
                        visitor, "instead of the briskness of an early bird, you have the air of a
                        dissipated night-bird with its feathers all awry! Why, what on earth have
                        you been up to now? Look at your boots all sopping wet, for all the world as
                        if you had jumped over a hedge into a duck-pond, running away from some
                        farmer's wife's husband!"
                    "My boots have as little polish on them as your remarks," said Emanuel,
                        shrugging his shoulders; "but farmers' wives have no attraction for me. The
                        fact is, I've been half over the country to-night."
                    "Why, you must be famishing, my boy!" cried Sontheim, jumping up. "How stupid
                        of me not to have thought of it before!" and he went to the door calling
                        loudly, "Pauline, Pauline!"
                    After what appeared a considerable interval, a lady's head with meagre hair
                        in curl-paper became visible through the half-open door. "Come in!" she
                        said, in a whispered consultation with her brother, which might have been
                        heard at the other end of the room; "that's like your want of consideration
                        for one's feelings. How can I show myself before the 'Friseurin' has been,
                        and before such a very genteel-looking gentleman, too? I'll see what we can
                        dish up at this unseasonable hour, and cook shall bring it in as soon as
                        ever it can be got ready."
                    
                    "Beat up a dozen of eggs or so," whispered Sontheim after the retreating
                        figure.
                    "Well now, Emanuel, let's hear all about your adventure," said the Professor
                        sitting down, and following with his eyes the wreaths of smoke that went
                        dwindling away into ever thinner circles above his head.
                    "Oh," said Emanuel laughing, "I leave adventures and farmers' wives to you.
                        Sorry I can't gratify your curiosity, but I only rambled abroad because I
                        had a sleepless fit on me, and when I heard the watchman call—'Past twelve
                        of the clock, and a fine starlight night,' I donned my cloak, stole down the
                        stairs and out into the open, where the sky was alive with stars. I walked
                        over the hills some eight miles or so, and got into a dale on the further
                        side that I didn't remember having seen in my youth. There was a mill there
                        by the side of a stream, and some scattered farms with orchards about them;
                        resting in an apple-tree, I had the most delicious reverie, and one or two
                        themes came into my head that I mean to work up by and by. Indeed I've made
                        quite a good business of this night escapade."
                    "At any rate you won't tell me more than you choose, I see, but I hear the
                        welcome clatter of cups and spoons," said Sontheim, as the door opened and a
                        slatternly maid brought in a tray, and without much ado banged it down on
                        the table and disappeared again. Sontheim poured his friend out a large cup
                        of café au lait, which the latter emptied
                        at a drain, and then began vigorously tugging away at the scrambled eggs and
                        smoked ham, declaring he had not tasted anything so delicious for a long
                        time, and finishing off with some milk rolls hot from the oven.
                    
                    "By the way," remarked Sontheim, who had sat benignly watching the other, and
                        filling his cup or plate as it was emptied—"I thought you seemed rather
                        taken with my little god-daughter, Mina, yesterday. What could you have to
                        say to the chit?"
                    "Oh, your god-daughter, is she!" said Emanuel, shortly. "How comes she to be
                        that?"
                    "Why you see," answered Sontheim, "her father and I were great chums. He was
                        one of the best fellows that ever lived, and one of the most learned, and
                        taught me Sanskrit, to boot ;but I never knew any one less fitted to grapple
                        with the realities of life than him, poor man. How he ever came to be
                        married is one of those mysteries of human nature that defy explanation. Had
                        Elise, indeed, been a crabbed Sanskrit manuscript, I could have understood
                        his falling in love with her. But no doubt our omniscient Shakspeare is
                        right in making the women folk take most of the lovemaking on themselves;
                        and my poor professor was just the man to fall a helpless prey to the first
                            she who should take it into her head to bring a fellow
                        under petticoat government. And if ever a man had to bow his neck 'under his
                        wife's slipper,' it was poor Heinrich Lichtenfeld. I remember one day," he
                        continued laughing, "he ought to have been on his way to give a Greek lesson
                        to some rich, stupid ass of a fellow, but had clean forgotten about it, and
                        was poring over some obscure passage in the Mahabharata, when his wife,
                        broom in hand, suddenly popped her head in at the door, and seeing her
                        husband placidly sitting there in dressing-gown and slippers, waved her
                        broom in the air, and flying at him, screamed—
                    
                    "Are you to be for ever at play, when there are five hungry mouths to be fed,
                        leaving alone your wedded wife and the servant. We shall come to beg in the
                        street, yet,' she lamented, the while poor Heinrich looked helplessly at her
                        with his pale, glassy-blue eyes, as she helped him on with his coat, and
                        pushed his hat on the back of his head. 'There, go and give your lesson, if
                        you have any pity on your poor starving children,' she ended, leading the
                        bewildered man to the street-door, and pushing him out as though he were
                        blind."
                    Emanuel looked very much amused at the description of Mina's father, and
                        remarked—"Well, after all, there's something to be said on the wife's side,
                        too; a married man must keep the pot boiling somehow. But is the family as
                        badly off as all that?" he added, more seriously.
                    "Oh, not now," replied Sontheim. "During the Professor's lifetime the wolf
                        was with difficulty kept from the door, and one must in justice admit, that
                        if any one in the world could have succeeded in making the two ends meet, it
                        was the Frau Professorinn. But on her husband's death, his ill-luck seemed
                        to die with him, and the good widow soon afterwards came into a very tidy
                        little fortune, which, with her habits of thrift and industry, she makes go
                        twice as far as any one else could. Even as regards my poor friend's
                        unrequited labours, curiously enough his dissertation on 'The supposititious
                        conjoined authorship of the Valmikisloka, and the Ramayana,' has been
                        recognised as one of the most valuable contributions to our knowledge on the
                        subject. The best of it is that Lichtenfeld never considered himself
                        unfortunate as another man would  have
                        done, but was so devoted to his studies that he never looked to get any
                        reward beyond the pleasure he derived from them; in fact, his wife was not
                        so far out when she considered he was always at play."
                    "You quite rouse one's interest in the luckless Sanskrit Professor," said
                        Emanuel; "such an abnormal specimen of humanity is not to be met with out of
                        the fatherland. Has he been dead long?"
                    "Let me see," answered Sontheim, "he died nearly four years ago, the youngest
                        child was born shortly after her father's death. The only one who at all
                        reminds me of the good man, my god-child, Mina."
                    "What, Fräulein Mina? You must be joking, my good fellow," said Emanuel,
                        smiling; "what resemblance can there be between the abstracted book-worm you
                        describe, and this sunshiny child of nature that seems thrilling with life
                        as a bird does?"
                    "Oh, that's how you see her," said Sontheim, casting a shrewd
                        glance at his friend. "The resemblance lies deeper down than that, and would
                        escape the notice of any but an intimate friend. I am very fond of the
                        little one, and feel almost bound to watch over her in a way. But I
                        confess," he added, carelessly, "she doesn't strike me as the sort of girl
                        men are apt to fall in love with, there's not enough of the woman about her,
                        she'd be the better for a spice of coquet, in fact!"
                    "Dear me, Sontheim," said Emanuel, somewhat ironically, "I didn't know that
                        amongst your multifarious studies you included that of the fair sex."
                    "Oh!" exclaimed Sontheim, with a fatuous expression, "when one has had the
                        good fortune to fall in with all that's fascinating, alluring and supremely
                             beautiful in womanhood it makes one
                        critical of the rest of the sex, no doubt!"
                    "Dear me!" said Emanuel, in a bantering tone, "you arouse my curiosity, you
                        do. Can it be that this phœnix amongst women hides her charms in this town
                        of yours? And is she visible to eyes other than your favoured ones,
                        Leopold?"
                    "Jeer on if you like, my boy," said Sontheim, not at all put down by his
                        friend's manner. "You'd sing to a different tune did you see her I'm
                        bragging of. I tell you she is a goddess, Emanuel!" he cried energetically,
                        getting up in his excitement, and pacing up and down the room; "a goddess
                        even you would bow the knee to, had you but the privilege of knowing her.
                        Such a walk, such a figure, such grace in every motion, and oh, Emanuel,
                        such a subtle, bewildering, intoxicating way of smiling at you, to drive a
                        man out of his senses! Give me such a woman, and to win her love but for a
                        day and a night a man might gladly give his life, I say."
                    "Why, I declare, head over heels in love, and 'mad as a herring'!" said
                        Emanuel. "Come tell us all about it, as no doubt you are dying to, and
                        perhaps, as I've some experience in these delicate matters, I can be of use
                        to you. First of all, who is this smiling divinity, Leopold?"
                    "Oh!" said Sontheim, mysteriously, "she's a very great lady; here's the
                        proof, so don't think I'm raving;" and he went to a wooden chest standing in
                        a corner of the room, and doing duty for several pieces of furniture in one.
                        Having unlocked it he took out a morocco case, then producing a small gold
                        key, which he wore  on a black silk cord
                        next to his heart, he unlocked this also, and, to his friend's astonishment,
                        revealed a complete set of the most effulgent diamonds, brooch, earrings,
                        necklace, bracelets, and all. They seemed to emit light of their own as they
                        flashed on the sordid surroundings of the professorial abode.
                    Emanuel took the necklace, and holding the stones to the light, eyed them
                        critically, then said, "You're right; they're splendid indeed, and of the
                        purest water. Many such sets have I seen, flashing round me on fair
                        shoulders, in the capitals where I've played. The lady to whom these belong
                        is, or has been, very rich, no doubt about it!" His words apparently
                        recalled some painful memory or other, judging from the contraction of his
                        brows and the slight start he gave, as again looking at the jewels, he said,
                        with a certain forced levity of manner: "By the way, you have not told me
                        the name of your charmer yet. Although one of the divinities, she is not
                        Venus Anonyma, I suppose?"
                    "Though you neither deserve to know her name nor anything else about this
                        most beautiful of women, still I will have pity on your benighted condition,
                        and condescend to illumine your darkness a little. You must know," said
                        Sontheim, emphatically rubbing his hands, "that she is none of your trumpery
                        German nobility, with inordinate pretensions and nothing to back them with,
                        but a real, great Countess, and no mistake!"
                    "A Countess?" said Emanuel, with a certain feverish impatience in his tone,
                        tapping the floor with his boot; "why in the devil's name can't you tell one
                        her name, then?"
                    
                    Sontheim, whose own excitement prevented his noticing that of his friend,
                        said, "What's in a name, old fellow? What can it signify to you what she's
                        called? However, there's no mystery about it, if you must know, she's the
                        Countess Staraja."
                    Emanuel, drawing a deep breath, sounding suspiciously like a breath of
                        relief, handed the brilliants back to the Professor, and said, with a
                        mischievous twinkle in his eye: "But you've not told me how those valuable
                        stones came in your possession, Leopold; you have not turned pawnbroker in
                        addition to your other avocations, have you? Besides, goddesses are above
                        pecuniary embarassments, I suppose?"
                    "Oh, for shame!" cried Sontheim, "you unbelieving Thomas, you! tremble lest
                        she reveal herself some day to you in her godhead. I won't keep you on the
                        rack of expectation any longer, however, and may as well tell you," he
                        continued, with an air of vast importance, carefully putting the diamonds
                        back in their case, which he locked, "that I am this very day going to
                        Frankfort, either to Ladenburg's bank or Goldschmidt's to raise 50,000
                        florins on these jewels."
                    "Then she's after all only like one of us prosaic creatures, and has outrun
                        her account at the banker's," said Emanuel, with a mock-heroic expression.
                        "Ah, why did you raise an illusion but to destroy it again, Leopold?"
                    "I assure you it's not at all a thing to joke about," said Sontheim; "the
                        fact is that this heavenly creature—so I concluded from some casual
                        allusions of hers—had had serious differences with her lord, a crabbed,
                        jealous old brute, no doubt, and so preferred eschewing  his company for a time, living in the meanwhile,
                        mind you, in a retirement strict enough for a nun."
                    "Where gods are in question miracles are sure to follow!" put in Emanuel.
                    "Well, you see," continued Sontheim, throwing himself well back, and
                        expanding his chest, "by some tremendous piece of good luck the Countess
                        Staraja comes to me with a letter of recommendation from her man of business
                        (who once passed a few days in this town), so I have the felicity of
                        rendering her some trifling service. I also flatter myself" (here he managed
                        to infuse an extraordinary amount of knowingness into his small blue eyes)
                        "that I succeeded in whiling away some of the leisure moments of this
                        glorious woman—well, let's not dwell on that—when one day she sends for me
                        in distress and perplexity—think of it!—her husband is dying, and she says
                        she must instantly start for Russia."
                    "For Russia!" exclaimed Emanuel, giving his friend a quick look.
                    "Yes; didn't I tell you that she was a Russian Countess?" asked the
                        Professor.
                    "Never mind," said Emanuel, who had recovered from his momentary uneasiness
                        of manner; "go on with your story."
                    "Well, fancy the delight of being of some use to the beautiful Countess!"
                        cried Sontheim. "Not prepared for the emergency, she wants ready money of
                        course; asks me to sell these diamonds for her in the course of a few hours
                        (like all women she has no conception of business, you see), and when I
                        explain that that is impossible in a small town like ours, she consents to
                             accept the money from me, and leaves
                        these stones to raise money upon, so that I may recoup myself and pay all
                        her outstanding debts with. If I am not mistaken she was not insensible to
                        my devoted exertions in her cause. After all," he went on, excitedly, his
                        face gradually getting as red as his hair, "the qualities women most value
                        in men are energy and manliness and——" he broke off suddenly, and turning
                        abruptly to Emanuel said, with a world of meaning in his look and tone—"She
                        may be a widow now."
                    "And have you heard from her lately?" asked Emanuel.
                    A certain confusion might have been detected in the Professor's manner as
                        bending over the table he said, in a rather less elated tone than
                        hitherto:
                    "No, I cannot say that I have."
                    "Well, you cannot expect a goddess to observe the ordinary rules of
                        politeness," said Emanuel, rather sardonically; "but, my dear Leopold, I am
                        more concerned than I——"
                    But before he had time to finish the door opened, and the lady of whom he had
                        caught a cursory view at an earlier hour now entered boldly in the
                        consciousness of carefully adjusted curls and a gaudy Scotch plaid dress.
                        Smirking and curtsying to Emanuel, and apologising for her intrusion, she
                        asked her brother, with a certain querulousness of tone, whether he still
                        had the intention of starting for Frankfort at one o'clock, for that in that
                        case she must know how long he intended remaining, on account of the clothes
                        that he'd want to take with him.
                    "Men of learning," she said, looking at Emanuel  with a killing smile, "always treat these
                        sublunary details with scorn, and yet no one is more put out than they if
                        everything does not go as smoothly as on wheels."
                    "Very true, dear Madam," said Emanuel, with a courteous inclination of the
                        head. "I have no doubt this big fellow here gives you no end of trouble to
                        keep in order."
                    "Ah! no one knows what it is keeping house for a great scholar like that,
                        dear sir," said Frau Scherer, casting her eyes up to the ceiling in an
                        interestingly plaintive manner.
                    "Well, well, you may abuse me another time to our friend, Pauline; but come
                        along now and let's attend to the packing. You won't mind amusing yourself
                        with my books till I come back, will you, Emanuel? and we'll walk to the
                        stage coach together. By the way, here's an interesting treatise by a man
                        who thinks he has found a key to the unity of language, that you may like to
                        look at," cried Sontheim, eagerly fishing out a thin, mean-looking pamphlet
                        from under a pile of books.
                    "No, no; I'll none of your etymologies or philologies; they are the worst of
                        bogies to me. Here's something will suit me better," said Emanuel, seizing
                        upon a translation of Hafiz which had just been published, as the others
                        left the room.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    SOAP BUBBLES.
                    
                        
                            
                                Sun, sun shine!
                                Ride over the Rhine! 
                                Ride over the house of gold,
                                There sit three spinsters old.
                                The first she spins a silken thread;
                                The second winds the reel of death;
                                The third hies to the spring water,
                                And finds a little golden daughter.
                            
                        
                    
                    WITH this old nursery ditty grandmother, one warm afternoon in June, sang
                        Lulu to sleep; while in the darkened room a large fly, drowsily buzzing,
                        went knocking now against the window, and now against the ceiling as if
                        tipsy with heat. A sunbeam slanting through a hole in the shutter, and alive
                        with countless luminous motes, fell across the room just behind the woman's
                        head.
                    Outside, the lavish sunlight lay fostering the grapevines and the plot of
                        garden edged off from the vineyard by a border of lemon thyme and raspberry
                        bushes.
                    
                    There, growing in unpruned luxuriance, were all sorts of delicious
                        flowers—sweetwilliam with its deep-hued, copious clusters; rough-leaved
                        borage, larkspur, and the tall aromatic spikes of the lavender; spotted
                        dragon's mouth, and white and purple poppies, whose drowsy fumes they say,
                        even lull the usually hard-worked bees to sleep.
                    The noontide with its vibrating atmosphere lay over the simmering earth. A
                        brooding stillness pervaded all things, only the bees glanced restlessly
                        from flower to flower, and from one spot behind the hut came now and then
                        explosions of laughter, or the sound of voices raised in mirth or anger.
                    For there, sitting astride on one of the boughs of the cherry-tree, Hans was
                        gathering the fruit, and his brother Conrad, standing underneath, caught it
                        and filled a large basket which they were to take to their mother. If one or
                        the other ate more cherries than seemed his fair share there was a general
                        protest, and whenever Conrad, with the dexterity of long practice, cleverly
                        caught one of them between his lips as it fell, the children uttered a
                        joyful shout. For they had all come to spend the day with their grandmother,
                        it being the Frau Professorinn's half-yearly washing day, on which they were
                        invariably packed off to granny's under the escort of their eldest
                        sister.
                    Mina, who had herself been watching the gathering of the cherries with
                        childish eagerness, suddenly remembered with dismay that she had promised
                        her mother not to let Otto eat too many of them, as he had been ailing the
                        last few days. And he must already have devoured at least a peck!
                    
                    Yet how prevent his eating any more! If she could only divert his attention
                        to some new interest. At last she hit upon a device. She went into the house
                        and came back presently with a basin, water, soap, and a clay pipe. Lulu,
                        who had woke up, followed her, with the cheek on which she had been lying
                        much redder than the other.
                    Mina established herself in the garden, and Lulu clapping her hands ran to
                        the back calling: "Otto, Otto, Mina's blowing bubbles!" The little fellow
                        looked reluctantly at the cherries, then rushed round to the front, while
                        the other boys, pocketing as many as they could, followed more
                        leisurely.
                    If there was one thing their souls delighted in more than another it was
                        soap-bubbles, especially as they were forbidden to blow them at home, Frau
                        Lichtenfeld considering it a messy and extravagant amusement. "You use quite
                        enough soap in scrubbing and washing," she averred, "leaving alone wasting
                        it in baubles."
                    So the children gathered round their sister with their mouths unnaturally
                        red, and of mask-like dimensions, and their fingers stained as a dyer's.
                        Finding they could positively not manage any more cherries just now, they
                        contented themselves in using the remaining clusters as ear-rings.
                    With breathless interest they watched Mina, who was an expert in the art of
                        blowing bubbles. All tried their hands at it in turn, but she had the knack
                        of producing the largest, and then a dexterous shake sent them floating
                        right up in the air. Whenever an unusually magnificent one, iridescent with
                        the hues of the  rainbow, drifted
                        glistering in the sunlight awhile, and alighting in its descent, was
                        shivered in the calix of a flower, or spluttered on one of their
                        eagerly-lifted noses, they screamed with delight.
                    Grandmother, too, was looking on, standing under her doorway knitting, and
                        benignly watching their happy faces.
                    As her eyes followed those airy resplendent bubbles floating so buoyantly in
                        the summer air, her thoughts went drifting, drifting far away to her own
                        childhood, that was like an old, dimly-remembered legend, and yet a thing of
                        yesterday too.
                    For childhood and old age have much in common; theirs is the illimitable
                        outlook, theirs the infinitely receding horizon. Standing aside from the
                        strenuous, enthralling struggle, where in the noonday glare men and women
                        are jostling and trampling each other in the thoroughfares of life, they
                        gaze dreamily into a far beyond—future or past, what matter—essentially
                        identical as these are.
                    From the old woman's ken the present had disappeared like a dream one awakes
                        from with a sigh and a start.
                    Behold, she was a child again, a nimble, sportive child, running lightly to
                        and fro, blowing her bubbles fast, her bright but evanescent bubbles of
                        life.
                    She was a maiden too, bright-eyed and elastic of step, and her heart beat
                        again in that strange, tumultuous fashion as sitting sewing by the window,
                        she caught the sound of a certain step on the pavement, and lifting her eyes
                        demurely, met the eyes of somebody, who raising his hat passed slowly, oh!
                        so very slowly.  Those were days bright as
                        the soap-bubbles, and as fleeting too, alas!
                    And once more she was a young mother with children clinging round her, the
                        little helpless hands of children whose touch felt sweeter than aught else
                        on earth; and her whole frame thrilled again as the soft lisp, and broken,
                        cooing tones of infancy came borne to her ear.
                    And that, too, was as a bursting bubble, that young sad-eyed woman, lying
                        weak and wan on her pillows, spasmodically clasping the breathing atom in
                        her arms, as though it could delay her being swept away by the tide of
                        death.
                    And a second time all her motherhood yearned in her, and went out to her
                        child's child, sweet to her widowed heart as a violet sprouting amidst
                        fallen autumnal leaves. Sweet Elfrida, sweetest child of her old age; she
                        sees her now with her soft, star-like eyes, and dreamy smile, coming home
                        from school with a crown of field-flowers on her head, the little sweetheart
                        had gathered for her. And she hears the coaxing, musical voice
                        calling—"Granny dear, I've brought Emanuel to have bread and honey with me,
                        because he's in disgrace at home." And there also is the boy carrying her
                        girl's satchel, crushing his cap into a ball in his bashfulness, and
                        whistling as though he didn't care a bit—not he!
                    Ah! was it yesterday or a lifetime since?
                    
                    A grey shadow was projected on the garden plot, and a tall, thin,
                        striking-looking man stood for an instant, looking at the merry group with a
                        beaming countenance, then strode rapidly through the little garden, and  stretching out both his hands to the old
                        woman, said with a certain heartfelt intonation in his voice—"You remember
                        Emanuel, don't you, little mother?"
                    The old woman stared at him intently, her features worked convulsively. She
                        suddenly leant her trembling head against the man's shoulder and wept,
                        sobbing out: "Then it was you!"
                    The stranger, gently soothing and supporting the old lady, led her into the
                        house, where she tottered into her easy chair. Mina, who had been looking on
                        sympathetically, flung her arms round her grandmother's neck, and called her
                        by a thousand names of endearment. When the latter had regained her
                        composure, Mina, raising herself from her stooping posture, encountered
                        Emanuel's eyes, who said, bowing to her—
                    "What an unexpected pleasure to find you here, Fräulein; and yet unexpected
                        is not the word either. It seems as if I had been here with you before, and
                        everything had been just so, even to the very words I am saying now. Does it
                        seem strange to you?" he asked, in a low voice.
                    Mina, who had seemed on the point of answering something impulsively,
                        suddenly changed colour, and instead of speaking bent again over her
                        grandmother.
                    "Forgive me, children," said the old lady, drying her eyes and attempting a
                        smile. "We old people move and have our being in the past, and when 'tis
                        brought before us sudden like that, it quite takes our breath away. Dear
                        heart alive!" she cried, looking scrutinizingly at Emanuel, and nodding and
                        shaking her head by turns, "and is this my little Emanuel, my bonny lad that
                        was? Ah, Emanuel," she went on, taking 
                        his long bony hand in hers, "they tell me you have become a great musician,
                        and that you can move people this way or that, just as it pleases you; but
                        what have they done to you, my boy? you look that thin and tired it makes my
                        heart ache to see you."
                    Emanuel had flung himself on the floor by the old lady, and as she looked at
                        him with tender concern, he kissed the withered hand that still held his
                        own—she was the nearest approach to a mother he had left.
                    "Give me my spectacles, Mina; I must look at the boy more closely," she said,
                        suddenly.
                    "I am not so young as I once was, little mother," remarked Emanuel, smiling,
                        "and the passing years are not so considerate to all of us," looking at her
                        admiringly; "but when one lives in a little earthly Paradise one may well
                        defy the passing years. Ah, 'tis well to be here!" he sighed; "and here's
                        old Mugin, too, I declare, looking more wise and weird than of yore," and as
                        in his schoolboy days, he began teazing that dignified bird, who seemed to
                        resent the unwonted familiarity with disgust.
                    "Susan," called out the old lady to her servant, "make us some coffee
                        directly; very strong, mind. That will refresh the boy," she added, in an
                        aside; "he looks as if they didn't half feed himself enough; and Mina, my
                        pet, go and get us the cherries they have gathered, I know he is very fond
                        of them." Then she gave a little start, and cried, "I beg your pardon,
                        Emanuel; I was quite forgetting that you are not a boy now, and that we have
                        really nothing to offer that's fit for a great gentleman like you to
                        eat."
                    "Let me still be a boy with you," he said, stroking  the old woman's hand, "and see if I can't eat
                        cherries against the best of them."
                    Mina, who had taken an earthenware dish from one of the cupboards, now left
                        the room; and she had scarcely done so before Emanuel said, "Little mother,
                        how like, how very like she is—you know who I'm thinking of?"
                    "Yes, more like than I could wish," she answered, with a nervous shake of her
                        head. "Old age breeds more care than need be, perhaps; but it makes me fear
                        sometimes——"
                    Mina's return, however, at this moment put a stop to her sentence.
                    They all gathered round the table now, and the coffee, cream, and appetising
                        bread and butter, not forgetting the cherries, were done justice to by the
                        musician. In this homely circle he regained the inexhaustible spirits of his
                        youth; and among the children seemed, indeed, to have become a child
                        again.
                    Presently they all adjourned to the garden, Emanuel exclaiming, "And here are
                        the identical old bee-hives, too, just the same as ever—only that they have
                        multiplied according to the Biblical command;" and he watched the bees at
                        their work with lively curiosity, old Frau Lichtenfeld leaning on his
                        arm.
                    "Why, little mother," he said, "to judge from the marvellous activity of
                        these small creatures, and the incessant flux and reflux of life, there's as
                        much business doing as in some of the streets of London or Paris, only that
                        they manage their musical accompaniment better here. How much honey would
                        one of these communities manage to make per day, on an average?"
                    
                    "Well, that's according to the time of year, and the condition they're in,
                        you see," replied Frau Lichtenfeld. "Sometimes we've what's called a
                        'hunch-back' brood, and there's next to no honey to be got from them; then,
                        again, if the queen should be taken sick, the whole state is thrown into
                        disorder, and wasps, moths, and thieves of that sort, break through the
                        gates and do no end of damage. But as a rule, bless them, they are far more
                        hard-working and orderly in their proceedings than most of us. But if you
                        really care to know, Emanuel, I'll tell you how much honey each hive makes a
                        day; for I weigh them myself every evening, and put down on my slate how
                        many pounds' worth of honey has been added by each during the day. Ah," she
                        said, fumbling at her side where she usually carried a little slate tied
                        round her waist; "let's see, Mina dear, didn't I leave it on the table at
                        the back, where I was shelling the peas in the morning?"
                    "Yes, granny; I'll go and fetch it directly," said Mina, running off.
                    "Oh, granny, will you weigh the bees now, while we're here?" cried Conrad and
                        Otto, with sparkling eyes.
                    "No, no, let me weigh them," cried Hans. "I'll do it tip-top, just see
                        whether I won't."
                    "No, me, me," cried Lulu's childish voice, impatiently pulling her
                        grandmother's skirts to enforce her request.
                    "Why, children, they might sting you as like as not; they don't know you as
                        well as me, you see, who watch over and care for them as if they were little
                        children almost; and they're very grateful when you show them kindness, more
                        so than many a Christian, bless you.  But
                        what's that?" she said, lowering her head and listening for an instant.
                        "Why, surely the hive must be going to swarm a day sooner than I
                        expected—dear, dear, I must go and get the basket from the house, and my
                        bee-cap and gloves. Out of their way, children!" she cried, seizing Lulu and
                        pushing the others back into the doorway; "Keep quiet here, you'll see them
                        directly. Stay where you are, Hans, they are dreadfully excited now and I
                        wouldn't guarantee that they mightn't sting you if you got in their
                        way."
                    She had scarcely finished speaking before there was a rushing noise of wings,
                        and many thousand bees, as though propelled by some invisible force,
                        precipitated themselves from the narrow aperture in the space of a few
                        minutes.
                    "Herr Jesu! O Lord, have mercy upon us!" gasped the old woman, in a voice
                        almost inarticulate with terror, clutching hold of Emanuel and trembling
                        from head to foot as she leaned forward with straining eyes.
                    For just then, Mina, turning quickly round an angle in the path, was suddenly
                        enveloped by the tumultous host. On her hair, on her cheeks, on her delicate
                        sloping shoulders, protected by nothing more solid than a thin cambric
                        chemisette, they settled by hundreds; while thousands more, hovering round,
                        hid her in a winged, murmuring cloud. Dumb with horror the girl stood rooted
                        to the spot. Indeed, she had sufficient presence of mind to remember that
                        her only chance of safety was to remain as quiescent under the circumstances
                        as a tree or a flower.
                    Emanuel had no sooner realised what had happened than he was going to dash
                        forward at all risks, but felt  his arm
                        spasmodically clutched by the terrified old woman, who whispered in a
                        quavering voice—
                    "Be quiet, for God's sake! If you irritate them now they may sting her to
                        death as sure as I live!"
                    But Emanuel, wrenching himself almost roughly from her grasp, said
                        hoarsely—
                    "Let me be, I know them of old," and darted forward before she had time to
                        answer or remonstrate.
                    In a moment he had reached the spot where the girl stood with the bees
                        surging round her in palpitating multitudes; walking unmoved through the
                        formidable swarm, he said—
                    "Trust me," in a low voice, as he looked at Mina with infinite
                        solicitude.
                    There was no need for the injunction, indeed. The moment he had approached
                        Mina, her painful apprehension was replaced by a sense of security. Emanuel,
                        watching the bees for an instant, suddenly put his hand in her hair, and
                        with his dexterous fingers extracted one of the bees from amidst its
                        luxuriant wavy mass. He had not been mistaken—it was the queen he captured
                        and now carried back to the old hive. No sooner had he done so than all her
                        subjects, as though they had but one soul between them, wheeled round, and
                        leaving Mina perfectly unhurt, rushed with incredible haste into the basket
                        after their queen.
                    "My child! my child!" gasped the grandmother, examining Mina all over with
                        her trembling hands, and kissing her and sobbing over her. "You're safe,
                        quite safe! Not one of them has stung her, not one, God bless them! Oh," she
                        cried, pressing the girl to her heart, "I am a faithless old woman. I ought
                        to  have had more confidence in my bees.
                        You showed you knew them better than I did, Emanuel; but I was quite beside
                        myself at the moment; ah, Emanuel," she continued; but on looking round
                        found he had left her side.
                    For Emanuel had no sooner seen that the girl was unharmed than he walked
                        rapidly down the garden path, and once or twice an irrepressible shudder
                        seemed to pass over him. On hearing himself called he joined the others in
                        the room, looking very white and like one who has recovered his self-control
                        with an effort.
                    "I thank you from my heart, Emanuel. Next to the Lord I owe the child's
                        safety to you," cried Frau Lichtenfeld, holding out her hand to him.
                    "Oh, I don't think she was in any danger, little mother," said Emanuel,
                        lightly; "the creatures' instinct told them that she is a protectress of
                        their kind, indeed I think they clung to her for pure love, only we were too
                        obtuse to understand their peculiar way of manifesting it. You alone showed
                        some kind of trust," said Emanuel, softly, bringing Mina a chair and sitting
                        down beside her; "would you always be so trustful, I wonder?"
                    "Why should I not," said Mina, looking straight at him for a moment with her
                        sweet frank eyes, but immediately dropping them again.
                    "Trust comes easy to the pure in heart," Emanuel murmured, half inaudibly,
                        while an expression of sorrow swept over his features, which though lasting
                        but an instant unconsciously disturbed Mina.
                    "If I had reflected a little," he said, after a moment's abstraction and as
                        if making an effort over himself, "I 
                        should not have been so disturbed when I saw the swarm surrounding you;
                        neither bird, beast, nor insect would ever hurt a hair of your head, I am
                        certain."
                    "Do you mean because I love them so?" asked Mina, in perfect seriousness.
                    "Well, yes," said Emanuel, smiling, "and because you are such a child of
                        nature that all her beneficent powers must watch over you."
                    "It is true I have never been stung or bitten by anything, not even by the
                        gnats that torment the others so much—only once," she said, in a ruminating
                        manner, and then with a brightening look, "the very day you rescued that
                        nest for me. I had a dream—oh, you can't think what a vivid dream it was: I
                        was chasing the most wonderful butterfly, and when I thought I had caught
                        it, it changed to a horrible monstrous spider, which stung me quite real
                        like—oh, what is the matter?"
                    For Emanuel, who had at first listened to her with evident delight, suddenly
                        showed signs of inexplicable agitation, and seizing her hand pressed it
                        violently, exclaiming, "And you too, my child; you too?"
                    Mina's query, and her startled, bewildered look, recalled the musician to his
                        senses; he let go her hand abruptly, as though it burned him, and said with
                        a forced laugh, "I beg your pardon, Fräulein; I had quite forgotten that you
                        were only telling me a dream, and that in the fatherland here there are
                        no——" (he apparently checked the word that was trembling on his tongue)
                        "snakes or poisonous spiders to speak of."
                    "Well, Mimchen," said her grandmother, who had only just succeeded in
                        pacifying Lulu's sobs and cries, coming up and laying her hand on Mina's
                        head, "have  you quite recovered from your
                        fright? Is there anything I can do for you?"
                    "No, granny," said Mina, with a certain preoccupation in her manner, which,
                        however, escaped her grandmother's notice; "but do sit down and rest
                        yourself in your chair, now. It is you who must be frightened. I had no time
                        for it."
                    "I remember your bees since I can remember anything. What made you first
                        think of keeping them?" asked Emanuel.
                    "It was my husband who was so fond of them—they helped to ruin him, in fact;
                        but when he died broken-hearted, I found them a livelihood. It's a long
                        story, and some day maybe I'll tell it you."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    THE FAIR.
                    A FORTNIGHT or so had elapsed since Emanuel and Mina had accidentally met at
                        the Raven's hut. Since then a tall, elegant-looking man might sometimes have
                        been seen bending his steps to the last house of the town, to the
                        astonishment and secret envy of some of Frau Lichtenfeld's neighbours.
                    One of these, more particularly, kept a sharp lookout on all the incomings
                        and outgoings of the Lichtenfelds. This was Fräulein von Griesbach, who
                        lived only a stone's throw off, and passed the better part of her time
                        sitting on the high step by the window, scrutinizing the passers-by and
                        bewailing the degeneracy of the times. The better to make her observations
                        she had a looking-glass fastened on either hand outside her window, which
                        enabled her to see all that was going on up and down the street. From her
                        all-seeing eye no poor servant wench could hope to hide  her stolen interview with the soldiers; it would
                        be no exaggeration to say that she was privy to every incipient love-affair
                        in the street, and sometimes prognosticated a rising passion before the
                        parties concerned knew of it themselves.
                    In the lady's formal drawing-room some of her intimates were assembled one
                        afternoon at the hour of coffee, an occasion on which she felt it incumbent
                        on herself to impart to them, out of "sincerest" regard for that poor widow
                        Lichtenfeld, what she couldn't help seeing—much as she might wish to shut
                        her eyes to it. She only hoped that that dear, sensible Herr Sontheim, as
                        Mina's godfather, would put a stop to these proceedings before things had
                        gone too far.
                    "In fact," she said, turning to Frau Scherer, who was stooping over some fine
                        white embroidery, "I am inclined to think that it would be acting the part
                        of a true friend to give your brother a hint in this matter."
                    "Dear, dear," sighed Frau Scherer, bending still lower over her work, "you
                        don't know my brother as well as I do, Fräulein von Griesbach, or you would
                        know what a firebrand he is if there's what he rudely calls any
                        scandalmongering going on. Besides, girls shouldn't be forward, and throw
                        themselves in the way of people, you know, or they must take the
                        consequences."
                    "That's very true, very true indeed," said Fräulein von Griesbach, snapping
                        off her thread. "Everybody knows what these great artists and musicians are.
                        'In each new place, a nice new face!' is their motto no less than the
                        soldiers'. And this Herr Sturm, to be sure, looks a regular lady-killer.
                        Only to see him taking off his hat is enough. Now, if that enigmatical
                        Countess,  —what d'ye call her—who came
                        and went who knows where, had still been at their house, one could
                        understand there being an attraction for such as he! Artists always pair-off
                        with these sort of adventuresses, you know. But what he can see in that
                        Lichtenfeld girl quite passes my comprehension."
                    "Well, well," interposed Frau Obertribunalprocurator Hopfengärtner, in a
                        soothing tone, "the girl has been getting prettier and prettier of late,
                        there's no denying that; and what a bloom she has!"
                    "Oh, she's passable enough," said Frau Scherer, "and all very well for such a
                        man as Lieutenant Knapp to run after; he's getting more hopelessly in love
                        with her than ever, they say."
                    "The more fool he!" said Fräulein von Griesbach, severely, "for she won't
                        have anything to say to the deserving young man; though what she is to give
                        herself such airs for, I don't know, for one."
                    "No, no, there you wrong the girl; you do indeed, dear Fräulein von
                        Griesbach," put in Frau Hopfengärtner, hastily gulping down a piece of
                        rather stale cake; "nothing is farther from poor Mina's nature than airs of
                        any sort—she's too little of that, if anything. But she's not like other
                        girls of her age exactly. Her mother tells me she'll spend hours lying on
                        her back in the garden, staring up at the sky; and then talk in the oddest
                        way about things she's seen in the clouds."
                    "Ah, her father always looked a queer, dazed sort of creature, in spite of
                        his learning; and her grandfather was a bankrupt, you remember," said
                        Fräulein von Griesbach, with an ominous shake of the head. "These things run
                        in families, you know."
                    
                    "Do you think," said Frau Scherer, looking round as if to ascertain that
                        there were no eavesdroppers, and lowering her voice almost to a whisper, "do
                        you think that the girl may be writing poetry in secret?"
                    "Heaven forbid!" cried the Frau Obertribunalprocurator, emphatically; "that
                        would be too hard on our poor dear Frau Professorinn, after all the trouble
                        she's gone through already. There's no marrying a girl of that sort, you
                        know; and with a family of six, too."
                    "Well, I can't help thinking no good will come of that girl and her ways,"
                        remarked Fräulein von Griesbach, by way of a clincher.
                    Meanwhile the subject of these remarks, happily unconscious of what a moral
                        stumbling-block she was to many of her female acquaintances, was on her way
                        to Mühlbach, a small market-town about seven miles from D——. For, as Frau
                        Lichtenfeld used to put it—"If the girl's fit for nothing else, she can at
                        least go on errands; and she's that fond of the open air, it's a pity she's
                        a respectable burgher's child and not a beggar's brat, made to sell brooms
                        in the street."
                    At any rate, Frau Lichtenfeld had this day despatched her daughter on a
                        strictly private and confidential errand, the nature of which she kept a
                        profound secret from even her two closest bosom-friends; yet the good widow,
                        so far from being ashamed, might have been proud to let the whole town know
                        what she so carefully concealed.
                    The fact was that the Professorinn—who rose at cockcrow—after putting her
                        house in apple-pie order, still found herself with plenty of time left on
                        her hands, which she made use of by turning an honest penny on  the sly. And the way she set about it was as
                        follows. It used to be the fashion at one time, amongst well-to-do farmers
                        and people of that class, to wear gaudily embroidered braces for their
                        Sunday best; and this sort of work was perhaps better paid than any, as
                        there was a steady demand for it in all the outlying country towns and
                        villages. Now Frau Lichtenfeld's soul would have revolted from having any
                        mercantile dealings with the shopkeepers of her native town. Was she not the
                        daughter of the late Medicinalrath Duttenhofer, a man looked up to by the
                        best connected families of the town!
                    No, it should never be said, if she could help it, that a degenerate
                        offspring of the great Duttenhofer was actually reduced to the point of
                        selling her own handiwork; besides, what Would such ladies as the Frau
                        Obertribunalprocurator Hopfengärtner, and the thrice nobly connected
                        Fräulein von Griesbach, have whispered of her behind her back had they
                        suspected her of such vulgar propensities?
                    She had therefore hit upon a plan which had hitherto answered her purpose
                        admirably.
                    Twice a year a large fair was held at Mühlbach, to which the farmers and
                        peasants came flocking from all parts of the surrounding country. Thither
                        she herself, under pretence that you could buy all kinds of earthenware so
                        much better and cheaper there, had resorted with her finely-worked braces,
                        ever since the death of her husband some three years ago.
                    There was one particular booth amongst others noticeable for these attractive
                        articles of male apparel, and the man with whom she was in the habit of
                        transacting  her business came from a
                        great distance and was not likely therefore to divulge the nature of her
                        dealings with him.
                    But this year Frau Lichtenfeld, to her exceeding regret, was prevented from
                        going there in person, because Lulu, who had surreptitiously possessed
                        herself of a cold pancake, was laid up with a severe fit of indigestion,
                        which developed into nettle-rash, and she was much too anxious to leave the
                        pet and nestling of the family. She determined at last, being much in want
                        of money, on sending Mina, who had several times accompanied her on these
                        expeditions.
                    "Now mind you don't go gadding out of your way after flowers and such trash,"
                        said Frau Lichtenfeld, on the landing, putting the neatly-tied parcel into a
                        bag which also contained her daughter's dinner. "It's not likely you'll meet
                        any one if you take the road through the Schlossgarten and pine-wood. I've always found it most quiet
                        along there; but if you should by ill-luck meet any of our friends by the
                        way, for goodness' sake, girl, don't you let the cat out of the bag, if you
                        value your old mother's peace of mind and the respected name of your
                        maternal grandfather. And don't you be wool-gathering when shrewd old Stein
                        chinks the twenty hard, bright gulden down on the counter—that's about what
                        it'll be, I reckon; he's close with his money, but he knows what's what when
                        he sees such neat, fine work as mine is. And here's my purse to put the
                        money in; stow it away in that pocket, it'll be safe there; and if you are
                        careful and do as I tell you I'll lay out some of the money on a new dress
                        for you—your muslins are all getting washed out again because you will stain
                             them so pottering about in that
                        garden, and never think of smoothing out the skirt before sitting down.
                        Well, well, it's hard work preaching to deaf ears, and there are none so
                        deaf as those that won't hear; but I hope for once you'll have your wits
                        about you and attend to what I am telling you. Now it's high time you were
                        off, instead of standing there saying, 'Yes, yes.' My goodness, look alive,
                        girl, and remember that you have five miles of road before you!" said the
                        Professorinn, by way of adieu to Mina, who thereupon hurried down the stairs
                        with irreproachable speed.
                    It was close upon noon when Mina reached Mühlbach. Booths and stalls of all
                        kinds lined each side of the usually solitary streets, and through the grey
                        clouds of dust crowds of people, whose appearance seemed more fitted for the
                        Italian Opera than sober nature, were pressing and hustling each other
                        eagerly where wares of the most varied and nondescript character were
                        displayed for sale.
                    The costume of many of the peasant women, whose I chief aim seemed to have
                        been the attainment of an abnormal width and bulkiness of development about
                        the hips, would have reminded those who are old enough to remember of the
                        extinct race of the "Buy-a-brooms." They wore short, copiously pleated
                        woollen skirts; large aprons of varied colours and materials, some snowy
                        white, others of gaudily flowered prints; bodices of crimson cloth, laced
                        with silver across an embroidered stomacher, the chemise being showily
                        puffed at the sleeves and covered at the shoulders with a cloth pelerine,
                        fastened with green ribbons under the arms; clock-embroidered hose encased
                        their strong legs and  ankles, and their
                        feet were shod in thick-soled blue cloth shoes tipped with leather. Under
                        the coquettish little caps, turban-shaped or phrygian, which, adorned with
                        black silk streamers, were slightly tilted on one side, their straight,
                        heavy flaxen hair was tightly drawn backwards; and this rainbow-hued costume
                        was further completed by a profusion of peasant jewellery, consisting for
                        the most part of garnets and silver.
                    The dress of the male peasants was no less conspicuous. Some wore short
                        jackets resplendent with metal buttons; others, long, loose coats, slit up
                        behind; while their scarlet waistcoats, hanging open, displayed richly
                        embroidered braces (such as Mina's mother was in the habit of working),
                        strapped across the chest, seemingly as much the pride of the men as the
                        many coloured ribbons were of the women. Leather breeches embroidered at the
                        seams, black stockings, stout buckled shoes, and low-crowned felt hats, made
                        up the rest of their attire.
                    Mina had some difficulty in making her way through this motley throng; and at
                        one point the people were so densely packed that she had perforce to come to
                        a standstill. The attraction proved to be a kind of cheap-jack, and the man
                        who was displaying his miscellaneous articles one by one happened at that
                        moment to be flourishing a woman's bright-coloured neck-handkerchief before
                        the eyes of the spectators, bawling at the top of his voice—
                    "Here's a bargain, lads! Genuine, and no mistake—pure silk—all the colours of
                        the rainbow—warranted fast—stand all the wear and tear in the world! Lasses
                        dying to have it, I see! A fine young fellow shall have  it for thirty gulden—there, I can't say fairer
                        than that!" and looking round encouragingly he struck the wooden stand a
                        tremendous blow with his fist.
                    Some of the onlookers here burst into a loud horse-laugh, but not the
                        faintest attempt at bidding for the prize was made by any of them. Not in
                        the least discouraged, the huckster cried, "Twenty-four gulden!" and he
                        struck another ringing blow. "Twenty gulden! Twelve gulden! Eight gulden!
                        Six gulden! Four gulden!"
                    More and more scornful grew his glances as his prices went
                        diminuendo—diminuendo; and with half a dozen crashing oaths he came down to
                        "Three gulden and seven groschen, and not a kreuzer taken off! What, isn't
                        there ne'er a sweetheart amongst the lot of you? Fie girls! what niggards
                        have you for lovers! Weddings'll be scarce this year, and yet the corn's
                        promising and the vines are loaded."
                    There was a deal of giggling at this, and a whispering, and a consulting, and
                        a nodding, and one gawky young fellow cast sheep's eyes at the gaudy trifle,
                        but looked down again immediately as though he might forthwith be entrapped
                        into buying it. His glances had not escaped the salesman, who immediately
                        swooped down on him like a hawk on its prey, crying—
                    "Bravo! bravo! you're the only decent fellow of the lot; and I wish you a
                        true lass, and a faithful and a fair—and there she is too, by jingo! Well,
                        I'm just letting you have it dirt cheap, all for love of the bonny black
                        eyes there!" and with a knowing wink he dexterously flung the handkerchief
                        right on the nose of the yokel.
                    
                    Thereat there was a universal titter. The neck-handkerchief was next
                        inspected, first on this side, then on that, held up to the light, pulled
                        and rubbed, and tested between finger and thumb; and at last, after a long
                        consultation, the bargain was concluded, and the man went through exactly
                        the same performance with another piece of goods.
                    Some of the peasants were moving on now, so that Mina was at last at liberty
                        to pursue her way down the narrow thoroughfare, lined on either hand with
                        stalls, where clocks from the Black Forest, Bohemian glass, Tyrolese gloves,
                        Nuremberg toys, Bas'ler Leckerle,
                        peasants' almanacks, pictures of saints and rosaries, and pots and pans of
                        every imaginable shape, material, and colour, brass, tin, copper, wood,
                        earthenware, and what not, with many other goods, were displayed to the best
                        possible advantage.
                    In order to reach her destination Mina had to cross a little triangular
                        square, where the grass sprouting between the irregular paving-stones
                        testified sufficiently to its habitual quietness, but which at this moment
                        resounded with the deafening noise of gongs, drums, trumpets, and other,
                        equally melodious instruments, while two large booths divided the public
                        with their rival attractions.
                    On one side of the square the King of the Niggers was depicted on a garish
                        curtain, in the blackest of skins and whitest of teeth, taming the lion of
                        the desert, while his queen, a lady with an enormous cloud of hair and a
                        suspiciously white complexion, testified to her savage genuineness by
                        swallowing a live fish tail foremost; the public being informed that this
                        rare sight  might be seen in the flesh for
                        the small sum of one groschen.
                    In front of the opposition booth the superlative tightrope dancer Landrinette
                        was at that moment exhibiting herself in somewhat dingy tights and spangles,
                        beating a big drum with one hand while with the other she clashed the
                        cymbals, at the same time notifying to an admiring, open-mouthed crowd that
                        if they would only walk in they might not only see her own thrilling
                        performances in mid-air, but also have the satisfaction of beholding a
                        man-eater or one of the anthropophagi, who for his past sins had his head
                        cut off every half-hour to the sound of trumpets, and carried round, like
                        St. John's, for the inspection of spectators, in a charger full of
                        blood.
                    Mina might have felt tempted to enter one of these booths—as she still had a
                        lively recollection of her childish pleasure in tight-rope dancing—but for
                        the solemn nature of the duties she was entrusted with; as it was she
                        contented herself by lingering for what appeared to her but a few instants
                        in front of the stand where Landrinette was contorting her lithe body into
                        the most extraordinary of attitudes.
                    Lost in admiration of such agility, Mina did not see that she was closely
                        watched by two characters widely different in appearance and social rank.
                        One was a young lieutenant in a tightly fitting military tail-coat, with
                        brilliantly white epaulets, his face being extremely red, as though the
                        tightness of his stock had forced the greater part of blood in his body up
                        into it. This was Lieutenant Knapp, who, on duty at the guard-house of the
                        fair, had been following the unconscious 
                        Mina since her first appearance there, and was now engaged in alternately
                        contemplating her lovely face, and scanning the suspicious movements of her
                        second observer.
                    This was a shock-headed youth, who had been edging more and more closely to
                        Mina's bag, when suddenly by a dexterous movement he ripped it open without
                        undoing the strings hanging on her arm, and was making off with Frau
                        Lichtenfeld's precious parcel when a vigorous cuff from the vigilant
                        lieutenant sent him spinning ten paces off in one direction while the parcel
                        fell down in the other.
                    The enamoured young man felt Mina's charms far too much to pursue the young
                        rogue, but seizing on the prize he restored it, not without a certain gleam
                        of triumph, to the bewildered young lady. All unconscious of the disaster
                        that had threatened her, she almost fancied that the active lieutenant had
                        been exhibiting a graceful tour of legerdemain for her private
                        delectation.
                    Mina blushed with surprise, the lieutenant blushed with pleasure, and the
                        fragmentary explanation which followed was tinged with zeal on the one side,
                        and polite embarrassment on the other.
                    How long this state of things might have lasted it is difficult to say; for
                        Mina, with her uncommenced negotiations weighing on her conscience, was
                        longing to be off, but did not know in her diffidence how to cut short the
                        stammering lieutenant's speeches, when the striking of a clock reminded him
                        that the guard had to be relieved, and so with bows interspersed with
                        protestations he reluctantly betook himself to his military duties, to her
                        infinite relief.
                    
                    Mina, now hugging the recovered parcel tightly in her arms, looked no more to
                        right or to left of her, but with praiseworthy resolution bent her steps to
                        the brace-merchant's booth. That worthy, when he knew whose errand she came
                        upon, did not suffer his attention to be distracted by her clear brown eyes
                        and glowing cheeks; but, deftly undoing the parcel, reserved his admiration
                        for the brilliant hues which the mother's fingers had wrought there. After
                        carefully inspecting each separate article, and snapping the braces more
                        than once with a sort of triumphant experiment in test of their stability,
                        he reluctantly balanced each bright coin between his thumb and forefinger,
                        and counted twenty gulden into Mina's small hand.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    ELEMENTAL MATCH-MAKING.
                    HAVING satisfactorily concluded her business, Mina set out for home. It was a
                        broilingly hot day, but luckily for her her way lay through the outskirts of
                        a pine-forest extending to the neglected old Grand Ducal Palace gardens. The
                        glare of sunlight, permeating air and sky, only slanted like golden rain
                        through the sombre woof of pines in whose tops not a breeze was stirring.
                        The stillness was so profound that you could hear that faint undertone and
                        susurration which, like the heart-beat of Nature herself only becomes
                        audible when all other sounds are in abeyance.
                    In this complete solitude Mina had no sense of fear. She felt like a child
                        sheltered in her father's house. Her heart was overflowing with devotion and
                        a love of this beautiful world such as she had never yet experienced.
                    As she was leisurely walking along over the smooth  pine-needles, her ear detected the crisp sound of
                        footsteps some distance off. Presently she caught sight of a man's tall
                        figure through the stems of the trees. Then she started, and a vivid blush
                        suffused her countenance. At the same moment the man, who had been leisurely
                        going along with his head bent, looked up, and, quickening his pace, raised
                        his hat. An expression of joy impossible to conceal lit up his eyes at this
                        unexpected meeting.
                    "Who would have thought of meeting you here, of all places!" cried Emanuel,
                        impulsively, stretching out both his hands to the girl in his surprise, and
                        retaining hers for a moment as he stood looking at her downcast face. "But
                        why should I be surprised, after all? you seem native to the woods; and
                        sometimes I fancy—forgive me for the thought," he added, gaily, "that you
                        must be an elf's child, and that your good mother must have been cheated of
                        her own."
                    Mina laughed softly, and stammered that her mother, when angry with her, had
                        often said she must be a changeling by rights. "But I don't know what people
                        mean," she said, opening her eyes to their widest; "is there then anything
                        wrong or strange in being fond of the hills and woods? How can one be
                        otherwise? As far back as I can remember I have heard voices when the trees
                        go nodding their heads together, and have even tried to make out what they
                        are saying. Sometimes, do you know, I have fancied that each kind of tree
                        has a language of its own, in which it talks with his fellows. The most
                        wonderful tongue is that of the pines here, and perhaps they are
                        chaunting—what my poor father used to tell me of—old-world secrets of fallen
                        gods."
                    
                    "Oh," said Emanuel, softly, "I have heard what a great scholar your father
                        was; and so absorbed in his studies, they say, that he had neither eyes nor
                        ears for what was passing around him. But he used to tell you something of
                        his thoughts and speculations, did he? Why, what a mere child you must have
                        been, though, at the time."
                    "Oh, I liked nothing so well as stealing into father's study, and getting him
                        to tell me all sorts of wonderful things from the books he was poring over;
                        and he was never cross or impatient at my interrupting him, but would let me
                        climb on his knees, or sit beside him on the piled-up books, and tell me of
                        a people that lived thousands of years ago, far away in the East, a race of
                        shepherds who had no book but the heavens, but used to read strange things
                        in the clouds and stars. Oh, I wish——" she exclaimed, and stopped suddenly,
                        getting very red.
                    "What do you wish? Tell me! I should wish nothing so much just now as to
                        fulfil yours!" said Emanuel, with a smile.
                    "But you will think my wish too childish and impossible, I fear," said Mina,
                        blushing more than before. "I should have liked to have been one of that
                        people, and kept the flocks, and watched the clouds ever coming and going in
                        the sky."
                    "I entirely retract my wish," cried Emanuel, with much emphasis, "and thank
                        my stars that you came to life in my time, and are walking with me here at
                        this very moment. Don't you think there's something to be said for this age
                        too? and you know the sky and the clouds and their ever-varying aspects are
                        still the  same those Aryan herdsmen saw;
                        from which they evolved that marvellous tissue of gods and demons which, in
                        one shape or another, have ruled the world ever since. But tell me, how
                        would you like to go into great towns, where you would see even less of the
                        sky and sunlight than you do here in old Germany; and yet make acquaintance
                        with a thousand fresh emotions of life and art?"
                    "I have often thought of that, too," answered Mina; "and sometimes when I sit
                        by my window in the dusk, from where I see the hills against the sky, I
                        begin picturing to myself what sort of a world there is behind them, till I
                        feel as though something mysterious were calling on me to rise and go
                        straight across them, on and on till I came to some such place as I have
                        read of in books, where there ate spires and steeples rising as plentifully
                        as our trees here; and cathedrals, through which the music goes rushing and
                        sweeping like a tempest; and palaces full of pictures; and gardens, where
                        there are all manner of outlandish animals, brought from the desert and the
                        northpole, and from God knows where. I have only once seen a real live lion
                        and tiger, and that was long ago at the fair; but," she added, heaving a
                        childlike sigh, "what chance is there of my leaving this neighbourhood
                        ever?"
                    "Oh, you have chances enough," said Emanuel, with a peculiar smile; "but this
                        quiet, old-world life here has a charm of its own, I confess. Only after
                        what you must remember of your father, I am afraid you hardly find the
                        people as poetic as the neighbourhood, do you?"
                    "The people are very kind, if they would only leave  me alone, but I never begin thinking of things
                        but they fancy that I am a kilkrop, or something dreadful of that sort, I
                        believe."
                    Emanuel laughed like a boy, but said nothing.
                    The trees were rustling overhead, each in their own language as Mina would
                        have it. They walked on in silence for some time. The musician felt that
                        there were a hundred things he would have liked to have asked her about, had
                        their short acquaintance really warranted the intimacy he felt. He would
                        have liked to have asked her how she could tolerate the dull monotony of her
                        mother's household; but how could he? He would have liked to have asked if
                        she ever felt any impulse to run away as he had done at her age, but this
                        was out of the question. He would have liked to have pressed her hands and
                        looked deeply into her eyes, and have said, "You are the sweetest girl that
                        I ever met in my life, and I should like to——" but he only walked on in
                        silence. Once or twice he looked round at her countenance lingeringly and
                        gently, as though it suddenly occurred to him that at least that right
                        remained to him, seeing that she gazed obstinately in front of her. But he
                        was vastly mistaken if he thought she did not see him, for the human eye
                        very distinctly takes in a large circumference round the mere point of
                        vision; and Mina, though in a sort of dream, saw most clearly every motion
                        of his face and hands. Indeed, she seemed in a delicious trance, in which
                        everything else except an unwonted sense of pleasure was obliterated; and
                        for aught she knew she might have been floating along the ground instead of
                        stepping beside him. His silence seemed to her quite  natural, and her own did not embarrass her. In
                        point of fact, time had ceased existing for her; she did not think of her
                        mother, she did not think of the hour, and least of all did she think of
                        herself.
                    In this frame of mind they had left the wood behind them, and entered the
                        palace garden itself. The ground here broke into gentle declivities and
                        fairy-knolls; all sorts of trees, many not indigenous to the soil, grew here
                        in disordered order, and bushy-tailed squirrels, usually left in undisturbed
                        possession of this green solitude, darted up the stems at the unwonted sound
                        of footsteps, their beaded eyes curiously glinting here and there through
                        the foliage.
                    All at once Emanuel was roused from his meditations by something thumping on
                        his hat. He looked up inquiringly, and said in astonishment—
                    "How dark it has grown! It cannot surely be late!"
                    Even while he was speaking there was again a heavy thump, thump, on the
                        ground, and there came a deep rumbling noise, not unlike the rolling of huge
                        blocks or boulders down a rocky hill-side.
                    "Why, I am afraid we are in for a thunderstorm," cried Emanuel, looking
                        anxiously at Mina in her thin muslin dress. "We must hurry on as fast as we
                        can, and get under shelter if possible before it bursts upon us."
                    Mina had looked up too; her eyes sparkled with a child's enjoyment.
                    "Oh, I am so fond of a downright good thunderstorm!" she exclaimed. "I have
                        never seen one out here before."
                    "But we have no umbrellas, no wraps, nothing—we  must make for the nearest shelter, if there is
                        anything of the sort near, as fast as we can," said Emanuel.
                    "Oh, the pavilion's not far off now," Mina replied; "if we turn down here we
                        shall reach it in a few minutes."
                    Emanuel hurried along at such a pace that his companion had to fall into a
                        little trot to keep up with him.
                    Big, heavy drops splashed at intervals through the slightly shivering trees,
                        and the moment they fell the parched, thirsty earth, split by great gaps,
                        had completely absorbed them. Now and then one fell on Mina, but she only
                        laughed, though Emanuel seemed deeply concerned. It was oppressively sultry,
                        and save for that occasional shiver of the leaves there was not a sound
                        stirring; an unnatural darkness gathered overhead, so that the blurred lurid
                        outlines of the clouds were but confusedly visible through the black and
                        motionless tree-tops. They were rushing along in silence when a sheet of
                        livid flame lit up the darkness, and flashing along the ground seemed to
                        dart past their very feet. Emanuel, seizing hold of the girl's hand,
                        instinctively stretched out his arm above her head, as though to protect her
                        against all the embattled forces of nature, as he tore her along with
                        him.
                    Flash upon flash followed the first with bewildering rapidity; clap upon clap
                        of thunder succeeded instantaneously; then there was a wild soughing of the
                        wind through the trees, and the very sluices of heaven seemed opening as the
                        rain came crashing like a cataract from the clouds.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    VENUS VICTRIX.
                    "THERE'S the pavilion", cried Mina, as they came all at once upon a lonely
                        little house that stood all by itself amongst the trees.
                    It was one of those summer-houses so much in vogue with the licentious German
                        princes in the latter half of the eighteenth century; lying half-hidden in
                        the wood-like park, but yet in close communication with the Grand Ducal
                        Palace, to which an old linden avenue led straight in opposite direction to
                        that from which Emanuel and Mina were approaching it.
                    Springing up the steps and saying that the door was locked, Mina beckoned to
                        a hidden side-entrance, which opened smoothly enough on her pressing a
                        secret spring. Even in the minute it took to effect their entrance they had
                        both got a thorough soaking.
                    "You are dreadfully wet; I am afraid you will get ill!" cried Emanuel,
                        rushing wildly about the room in  which
                        they now found themselves, looking for something or other with which to
                        cover or dry her; such things, however, had long since vanished with the
                        vanished owners. So he eagerly whipped his silk handkerchief from his
                        pocket, and began flicking the rain from her hair and dress and thinly-clad
                        shoulders, with as much care as though she were one of the Dresden
                        shepherdesses that still kept their place on the cabinets with ormolu
                        corner-pieces, and he might break her in the process. He was even going to
                        divest himself of his coat next in order to put it over her, only that she
                        protested so strongly he had to desist.
                    "This is nothing, nothing indeed!" cried Mina, reassuringly, giving herself a
                        shake like a duckling, and looking as though getting wet were the most
                        pleasing sensation in the world—as indeed it was the most becoming thing in
                        existence, thought Emanuel. But he did not quite give vent to his feelings;
                        glancing round the octagonal room he only said—
                    "What a dear, charming old place you have suddenly raised to shelter us from
                        the storm! I have long suspected you of being something of a fairy, but now
                        I am sure of it!" and he threw himself on the parqueted floor at Mina's
                        feet, looking up at the ceiling with its cupids and nymphs à la Boucher, who, if sunken in tone and
                        tarnished, were probably less offensive in colour than in all the garish
                        rawness of their pristine blues and pinks.
                    Mina laughed softly as she answered—
                    "Oh, it's only the old park-keeper who in this case plays the part of good
                        fairy. Once he used to frighten us children dreadfully if ever we dared to
                        pluck flowers  off the grass in front of
                        the palace, by telling us that bears and tigers and wolves were shut up in
                        this lonely house here, and that we should be locked up along with them if
                        we were disobedient. But nothing could ever keep me from the flowers; and so
                        once the keeper, with his bushy eyebrows and long red nose, took me in his
                        arms and said he would take me to the bears, and then my terror became so
                        strong that I couldn't even scream, but fell back with all my senses clean
                        gone."
                    "Wicked, wicked monster!" muttered Emanuel, clenching his fist.
                    "No, he wasn't wicked," said Mina, gently; "only he didn't know, I suppose,
                        how dreadful a thing fear is. He was so sorry for what he had done
                        afterwards, and told me there were no wild beasts there—how silly I must
                        have been to think there were!—only little angels with wings. So at last he
                        got me to go and peep in with him, and then he and I became great friends,
                        and he showed me how I might let myself in here whenever I wished if I would
                        keep it a strict secret; for he told me how our Grand Duke, because of
                        something in a will, had ordered everything to be left exactly as it was in
                        his grandfather's time. So I used to come here on a summer holiday and read
                        fairy-tales, while the other children were romping in the park outside. Oh!"
                        she cried, "I must show you the story of the 'Sleeping Beauty,' embroidered
                        in the most beautiful colours, over there;" and she tripped across the room,
                        and drawing out one of the once gorgeous draperies or portières, displayed its needlework.
                    Emanuel, who had slowly risen to his feet, was following her every look and
                        motion with a certain  brooding intensity
                        of expression. All this tarnished splendour around them seemed to act as a
                        foil to that slim, girlish figure, in the green muslin gown and cape with
                        the fluttering ribbons; to that face with the virginal lips and the delicate
                        rose-red bloom, and to those ethereal eyes, that seemed to swim like stars
                        in some divinely limpid ether of their own; in a word, to that immaculate
                        youth of body and soul. It seemed to Emanuel that, in looking at her, the
                        freshness and dew of his own youth was coming back to him once more. He was
                        wishing in his heart that the thunder and lightning would continue
                        indefinitely to flash and roar overhead; that the rain would still go on
                        falling through the wet, shaken boughs of the trees. But he was in truth all
                        the time struggling hard with the strong, well-nigh overpowering emotion,
                        which threatened every moment to overflow its bounds. So all at once, to
                        hide what he felt, he began drawing the gayest, most animated picture of the
                        fine gentlemen with bag-wigs, and the noble ladies in ruffles and
                        farthingales, who had once upon a time lounged and laughed and flirted and
                        fanned themselves on this pale, rose-coloured furniture, with its sumptuous
                        curves and gorgeous marquetry work.
                    Brilliant, witty, gay, he overbrimmed with quaint conceits and fancies, and,
                        giving the rein to his imagination, flashed out story after story, as only a
                        man of genius could. For the delectation of this little unsophisticated
                        girl, he exerted the fascinations of his intellect as he had but rarely done
                        in the drawing-rooms of the wealthy and the great.
                    Mina simply listened, drifting along in an enchanted  region. The present moment filled her so
                        completely, that she had literally forgotten all that lay outside of it.
                        Nothing was lost upon her; intuitively she seized the most delicate
                        allusion, the most fleeting play of the fancy, till Emanuel could almost
                        have been astonished to see how fine were the perceptions of this most
                        delicately organised creature that was a mystery to itself as yet.
                    As they were loitering about, now looking out at the storm, whose violence
                        seemed to be abating, now sauntering through the rooms, Emanuel made belief
                        that at some turning or corner they would come upon the dukes or
                        marchionesses, or fair maidens, who had once used this retreat, looking as
                        faded and tarnished as the pavilion itself. But instead of this they only
                        met themselves at every turn in the magnificent mirrors—which brought them
                        face to face with their doubles like the lovers in the legend. In these
                        unexpected encounters they caught glimpses of each other which made either
                        feel more conscious of their position; and Mina all at once, after such an
                        encounter, became disturbed and embarrassed, and her movements grew scared,
                        like a frightened bird's almost, as, going to the window and looking out,
                        she said: "I don't think the storm is so bad now—the thunder doesn't follow
                        the lightning nearly as fast as it did. I ought to be going," and she was
                        moving towards the door.
                    But Emanuel seized her hand, and said almost peremptorily—"Going! in this
                        pouring rain and in these gossamer clothes! Do you think I would let you, to
                        catch your death of cold?" then he added, with a sort of soft
                        reproach—"Going, indeed!"
                    
                    For a moment he kept her hand in his, and his eyes met hers with a long,
                        long, yearning look, that pierced to her very heart's core; it was only for
                        a moment, but in that moment there was eternity.
                    What had come to Mina? She would have escaped, fled, hidden herself out of
                        sight, had it been possible; but how could she?
                    She went to the window again, ostensibly to see how the weather was—but she
                        saw nothing; only her heart was beating so that she was glad the heavy,
                        full-leaved trees were swaying and tossing about in the wind and rain, or
                        she feared that its beating might have been heard all through the room.
                    Emanuel made no attempt to approach her. When she went to the casement, he
                        took a quick step forward as though to follow her, then in his sudden way
                        veered round in the opposite direction, and said in a loud voice—
                    "Why, there's a spinet too! I must have a try at the instrument! I wonder
                        what sort of tone it has?"
                    And opening the instrument he began running his long elastic fingers over the
                        disused keys; under his vivifying touch they emitted thin, faint, almost
                        ghostly sounds.
                    "Not so bad, not so bad!" he murmured, as, after playing one or two bars at
                        random, he glided into a low, silvery, rippling sort of melody, that mingled
                        softly with the monotonous splashing of the rain on the roof. But as he went
                        on playing he seemed to be abandoning himself more and more to the music,
                        which gradually swelled and deepened in scope, till on that old spinet it
                        rang out, in its passionate intensity, like the articulate cry of a soul, as
                        it once might have responded to the fingers of Sebastian Bach.
                    
                    Mina still stood motionless by the window. Strange thrills swept over her
                        frame, like the shivering eddies that crisp the surface of an unfathomed
                        lake. It seemed as though each note of this music were tugging at her
                        heart-strings, drawing her as with strong cords towards the player, whose
                        eyes waxed and darkened and glowed as he occasionally broke into snatches of
                        song, while his body, like the trees in the wind outside, went swaying to
                        and fro in the current of sound.
                    All at once the girl started as though she had been surprised in some crime.
                        She thought she had heard him calling her by name through the music. She
                        felt as though she must call aloud on his name, but her lips were tightly
                        compressed all the time, and her fingers interlaced convulsively.
                    Emanuel jumped up just then, passed his hands through his hair, and left the
                        spinet as suddenly as he had gone to it.
                    Mina, without looking round at him, said: "The rain has nearly left off now.
                        I must go, indeed I must."
                    "Very well," Emanuel answered, shortly. His voice sounded almost harsh to
                        Mina; she wondered whether he could be angry with her.
                    They left the pavilion, and went down the steps in silence. How cool and
                        sweet the air now was! How fragrant the smell of the brown earth!
                    The rain had ceased. Everywhere around, above and beneath, there was a
                        glisten and shiver and sparkle where the drops of wet, hanging on leaves and
                        flowers and blades of grass, flashed back the evening sunshine as from a
                        myriad diminutive mirrors.
                    Shrill piping sounds and long mellow flutings were  blown with the whiffs of air through the foliage,
                        and all sorts of dainty, gauzy-winged creatures, and gossamer flies and
                        shiny beetles, buzzed and quivered and whirred through the clear air,
                        revelling to the utmost in their fugitive day of life.
                    At the far end of the long linden avenue, down which the pair now walked in
                        silent absorption, the long row of windows of the forsaken-looking rococo
                        palace blazed red in the sunset. But the silence of these two was of a
                        vastly different character. Mina was looking straight before her, down a
                        vista melting from splendour to splendour into glories unspeakable, glories
                        and splendours seeming but some outward visible token of something
                        transcendently divine, which was filling her soul even to overflowing.
                    Emanuel, on the other hand, with his head drooped seemed hardly conscious of
                        where he was nor whither he was going, but from his expression one might
                        almost have fancied that the storm had left the earth only to rage in his
                        own breast with unabated violence.
                    "Oh, that's a nightingale!" sighed Mina, in a low, dreamy voice, more as if
                        she were thinking aloud than giving utterance to her thought, at the same
                        time putting her finger to her lip with a charming gesture.
                    At the sound of her voice Emanuel raised his head, looking about him like one
                        just awakened. There was a strange, almost savage gleam in his hollow eyes
                        as they furtively glanced past Mina, but then there came into them a dim,
                        misty light as of unshed tears, and he muttered something between his teeth.
                        It sounded like Byron's— 
                            
                                No more, no more, oh, never more on me
                                The freshness of the heart shall fall in dew.
                            
                        
                    
                    Mina gave one quick, shy, puzzled glance upward, but it seemed easier somehow
                        to look into the blazing lights yonder than to meet his eyes.
                    "Why, here she is incarnate, the very goddess herself!" cried Emanuel, as
                        though in answer to some train of thought, of his own, abruptly standing
                        still before a statue of Venus Victrix, that with some antiques, casts, and
                        modern originals (all of them statues of Venus, however), was placed round a
                        pond, of which the waterworks, with their much damaged Tritons, had long ago
                        ceased playing. Three white swans went slowly circling over its surface.
                    "We have lost the way, then, for good and all, and strayed into Venus's
                        land," said Emanuel, in a tone between jest and earnest, after gazing at
                        that statue of the goddess where she is represented as holding an apple in
                        her right hand, and raising it to the height of her shoulder in token of
                        triumph. "Well," he continued, "it is useless to resist when she, with all
                        the powers of nature at her back; conspires against one. I herewith yield
                        myself up as her prisoner!"
                    So saying, he turned, in his energetic way, towards a tall hedge or thicket
                        of roses, nearly enclosing the pond and the statues, and with his penknife
                        began cutting quite a bunch of ruby, crimson and pink, cream-coloured and
                        maroon roses, most fresh and fragrant after the rain.
                    "Oh, please," cried the terrified Mina, interposing, "you mustn't gather
                        those; what would the Grand Duke say? The keeper will be furious!"
                    "There, there, don't frighten yourself!" said Emanuel tenderly, pressing the
                        bunch into her hands and her  hands
                        between his. "There are powers that I dread more than the Grand Duke or even
                        the red-nosed keeper, awful though he be! Perhaps if you were to cast those
                        roses as a peace-offering at the feet of that Venus there, who knows——Go! I
                        am a superstitious creature; perhaps the roses offered by those pure hands
                        will soften that inexorable marble heart of hers. Ah, you stare at me, my
                        child! You think I am going out of my mind perhaps. Perhaps I am! perhaps I
                        am!"
                    He spoke vehemently, and almost pushed Mina in the direction of that Venus
                        before mentioned, who, faintly glowing in the warm sunset tones, stood out
                        in her immortal beauty from the background of dark green leaves and mingled
                        red roses.
                    The girl hardly knew what to make of it. She held the roses in her slightly
                        trembling hand, looking perplexed and half frightened; she had never yet
                        seen so strange an expression in the musician's face—so strange that it made
                        her shiver in spite of the warmth.
                    All at once she felt his breath thrill through her hair; the roses dropped
                        from her hands at the feet of the image of Venus. "Surely you cannot be
                        frightened of me?" he whispered.
                    For an answer she looked full at him for once, with her large, clear, candid
                        eyes, revealing what was a secret to herself as yet.
                    Emanuel, seizing both her hands in his, and drawing her a little towards him,
                        cried, as though the words were being wrung from him by some overmastering
                        force—
                    "Mina, Mina, I lo——"
                    "Halloo!" shouted a well-known voice, in unfeigned  astonishment; and the shout ended in a
                        significant whistle as the two started apart.
                    Emanuel's face wore an expression of profound annoyance, nay, anger, as
                        Sontheim, ostensibly speaking to Mina, but looking at him, said, "Why, Mina,
                        my girl, what brings you here at this late hour of the day?" In another
                        instant, however, he had regained that perfect self-possession which under
                        no circumstances long forsakes the man of the world.
                    "Why, Leopold, old fellow, glad you have come back from Frankfort at last!"
                        he said gaily, linking his arm in that of his friend; "what a time you've
                        been gone!"
                    "Much may happen in a fortnight, certainly," said the other in an absent,
                        constrained manner, stealing a look at Mina, who, thus unexpectedly
                        startled, as a tide of irresistible emotion was upheaving her whole being
                        felt unutterably helpless, speechless, and yet, in spite of all, more
                        unutterably happy still.
                    "I met Fräulein Lichtenfeld accidentally in the wood," said Emanuel,
                        addressing Sontheim, "and, being overtaken by a thunderstorm, I thought it
                        my duty to look after her."
                    "Look after her!" repeated Sontheim, mechanically, with none of his usual
                        hearty joviality of manner.
                    "Well, now you are here to escort Fräulein Lichtenfeld home, I must be off,"
                        said the musician, "as I have to keep an engagement."
                    They had reached the end of the avenue by this time. Emanuel turned to Mina
                        and bade her good-bye, holding her hand in a lingering pressure; then
                        nodding to Sontheim, went off at a swinging pace.
                
            
            
                
                BOOK II.
                
                
                BOOK II.
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    THE DANCE AMIDST THE RUINS.
                    LEOPOLD SONTHEIM had been more painfully disturbed by his unexpected meeting
                        with Emanuel and Mina than he could well account for. Trifles that he had
                        hitherto disregarded recurred to his mind with new significance. He
                        remembered the gossip retailed to him by his sister on his return home, and
                        her friends' tittle-tattle which he had several times laughed to scorn.
                        Certain scandalous rumours that had reached him in Frankfort now assumed a
                        more serious meaning; and he pondered, not without annoyance, on the
                        congratulations which an acquaintance of his had offered him on his
                        god-child's supposed engagement to the great virtuoso.
                    "At any rate I'll do my duty by Lichtenfeld's little girl," exclaimed the
                        energetic Professor the next morning, on rising at a still earlier hour than
                        usual. After  a hasty toilet he sallied
                        forth, determined to seek his friend, who he knew would not be able to
                        escape him, as he should find him safely in bed.
                    In bed Emanuel was, and fast asleep, when the Professor entered; but he
                        started up with an oath on the latter laying his hand gently, as he
                        supposed, on his uncovered arm.
                    "In God's name what has happened?" he muttered, staring at Sontheim. "Has
                        anything——" then he abruptly stopped, seemed to recollect himself, and sat
                        straight up in bed.
                    Sontheim, not at all flurried, drew an easy-chair to the bedside, filled his
                        pipe afresh, and said, with great nonchalance, that as he had wanted to have
                        a few serious words with him, he had taken this opportune moment for calling
                        on him. Then, without beating about the bush, he plunged straight into his
                        subject, and after reminding Emanuel of their conversation about his dear
                        old comrade Lichtenfeld, besought him by their friendship not to injure his
                        innocent daughter's reputation; as he could scarcely fail to do if, as he
                        supposed, he had no serious intentions, and was yet seen walking with her
                        alone in such a small neighbourhood.
                    Emanuel, who had at first uttered one or two exclamations with a certain
                        angry impatience, said all at once, with infinite tenderness in his voice,
                        "Injure the child! I would as soon think of hurting——but perhaps you are
                        right," he muttered, after a moment's abstracted silence. "I may be to blame
                        for allowing myself to drift on in delicious unconsciousness of
                        consequences. But," he said, turning on his side, away from Sontheim, "I am
                        not prepared to discuss this subject  with
                        you just now. My position, I own, is not a little difficult and perplexing;
                        but if you like I will tell you the story of my life, so that you may the
                        better judge of my actions, and be able to tender your advice, which I stand
                        much in need of."
                    Sontheim, after expressing the utmost readiness to hear Emanuel's story,
                        thanked him for having tolerated his interference in so delicate a matter;
                        and it was arranged that the latter should rejoin his friend in the evening,
                        when they would make a night of it.
                    In accordance with this promise the musician was now seated in Sontheim's
                        garden, in the magnificent June weather, between nine and ten o'clock in the
                        evening. The only light they got was partly from the just risen moon on one
                        side, partly from an oil-lamp in the kitchen, which, through a window, threw
                        enough light on the arbour table to render the Professor's beer and tobacco
                        faintly visible. In spite of the sultriness of the night, Sontheim had made
                        himself tolerably comfortable in his old dressing-gown and slippers, and
                        reclining in a garden arm-chair, was puffing away at his pipe.
                    Emanuel's feelings were of such a kind as entirely to neutralize in him any
                        sensations of heat, cold, or physical discomfort whatever. With his hands
                        tightly linked round the right knee, that crossed the other, he was
                        straining forward with eager glance into his friend's eyes, lit up by the
                        lamp, as though the latter could have looked into his own, although, from
                        the gloom enshrouding him, only an occasional glitter of them was apparent
                        as glimpses of moonlight penetrated the dense foliage.
                    "I dare say," Emanuel began, "you will remember  from letters how hard were my early struggles
                        after I had run away from home to follow the irresistible bent of my nature.
                        For my father, as you know, worthy Lutheran pastor that he was, thought a
                        musician not much better than those strolling mountebanks that used to play
                        in the streets and then came begging to the door. 'Lumpengesindel' he dubbed them indiscriminately, in
                        stentorian tones, who wasted God's precious time by making a row!—quite
                        forgetting in his ire that one of the chief occupations in the kingdom of
                        heaven is to consist in the singing of 'hallelujahs.'
                    "Well, I will not weary you by detailing the vicissitudes I endured. For
                        owing to the incalculable disadvantage of not coming of a musical stock, nor
                        of having been thoroughly trained at a sufficiently tender age, it cost me
                        incredible efforts and incessant labour to make headway in my
                        profession.
                    "How I got a living at all, or refrained from hanging myself in my garret, to
                        this day I cannot explain!
                    "I was in several towns, and played in several orchestras with more or less
                        blundering persistency, till by hook or by crook I had worked my way to
                        Rome, and had got admitted to the Academy there. From that time, I believe,
                        letters and news from me, good or bad, ceased.
                    "I believe at that time, when things went well, I used to earn about five
                        hundred francs a year by music lessons. I had a few friends, who thought me
                        poetic but mad, and a very few patrons, who would have liked me better if I
                        had been better dressed. Sometimes I know I would owe a meal to the French
                        painter Raoul Leroux, who, some years older than myself, had already begun
                             attracting the eyes of picture buyers
                        by his 'Fisher of Capri' picture.
                    "I as yet had caught the ear of no one, and one day, in a despairing mood,
                        had taken myself off to the gardens of Tivoli and flung myself down on the
                        grass in utter hopelessness. In this position I suddenly heard Raoul
                        shouting, 'There he is! There he is, Frederic! Morose as usual, of
                        course.—We are off to Naples, Emanuel! Come along with us.'
                    "'To Naples!' I echoed grimly. 'Do you want to mock me? Don't you know that
                        at this moment I don't possess a single baiocco—nay, less than nothing, as I have lots of debts!' and
                        I ground my teeth.
                    "Raoul and Frederic only laughed, saying, 'What of that! As if we had not
                        enough for all three of us. Come along, old fellow; shake off that moody
                        melancholy that gives you the air of gaunt sea-eagle!' And each seizing me
                        by one arm they dragged me along with them.
                    "'Well,' I said, 'to confess the truth, you have saved e from a dilemma. For
                        the rich English spinster, whom you may have heard me mention, has gone to
                        live at Naples for a time; and as the lessons I give her form the better
                        part of my income, I was deliberating how to follow in the present state of
                        my finances.'
                    "'Ah well,' laughed Raoul, 'now we can understand the cause of your despair,
                        and the antics you were cutting on the grass like Don Quixote for his
                        Dulcinea. It was the Mees Anglaise's red corkscrew curls
                        and blue spectacles that you were pining after.'
                    "Once at Naples, the partiality of my English patroness procured me some
                        pupils, and, therefore, after  the
                        departure of Raoul and Frederic I determined to remain. After I had been
                        there about eight months I was so worn out with hard work and constant
                        disappointments, that one day, finding I had a good deal of time on my
                        hands, I jumped into a fisherman's boat and let him take me to Capri.
                    "I and my violin, which in those days never left me, were put on shore after
                        paying the small fare that was bargained for, and I found myself ascending
                        the rocky path that leads to the little inn near the Villa of Tiberius.
                    "'And what next?' was the question I put to myself as I made my way to the
                        latter. My prospects seemed gloomier than ever. In this frame of mind I
                        found myself amidst the world-renowned ruins of Tiberius, that, not unlike
                        certain women, might be said to look as beautiful as they are ill-famed.
                    "Sounds of human mirth and laughter from somewhere among them were borne from
                        time to time to the desolate spot I had reached. It was a Festa day, and a
                        number of young people were apparently enjoying their games and dances, to
                        judge by the shouts and laughter which woke echoes of ghostly mirth in the
                        vaults and galleries—that looked as though they had lain dumb under the
                        pressure of centuries.
                    "There was I know not what of weird contrast between this gaping ruin, with
                        its fragments confusedly scattered about like the bleaching bones of some
                        antediluvian monster, and the clear youthful ring of those joyous
                        voices.
                    "I had sat down on some fragment of wall directly overhanging the sea. In my
                        present mood it afforded me a singular kind of pleasure to take up stones or
                             pieces of marble, and throw them down
                        the precipice. From time to time I could hear them striking against the
                        sharp projections of the rocks as they leaped down the giddy height. Should
                        I let my violin follow in their wake?
                    "I was in a mood of savage despair; a mood in which my heart turned at bay on
                        what I had best loved. Hither it had led me, this art I had worshipped!
                        After years of patient toil, after sacrificing to it hearth and home, and
                        the security of a settled profession, I was not a tittle further advanced
                        than at the commencement of my career. For requital of my devoted service
                        starvation stared me in the face. My miserable subsistence was barely earned
                        by giving lessons to females, young and old, who, while inflicting prolonged
                        tortures on their victim, still exacted the tribute of smiles and
                        compliments.
                    "Weakened and ill, I shuddered to think of returning and bowing my neck once
                        more to that detested yoke.
                    "'No! I'll never go back to that!' I cried, jumping up. 'I'll sooner earn a
                        precarious livelihood by turning fisherman in this island! Any labour will
                        be preferable to that daily renewing torture.' I seized my violin in a
                        desperate clutch, and feverishly leant over the wall, where I could hear the
                        dirge-like boom of the breakers in the hollow caves.
                    "Only he who is familiar with the violin, knows the love one may bear it—a
                        love keen as that felt for some frail human creature of exquisitely delicate
                        mould. Caressingly I passed my fingers over its ever-responsive strings,
                        thinking, feeling rather, that I could endure no hand to handle it save
                        mine!
                    
                    "No! rather than that it should belong to another, its strings should for
                        ever render up the ghost of music in one prolonged wail, as it plunged
                        shivering from this fearful height.
                    "For the last time, I thought, my fingers erred over its familiar chords. A
                        thrill of horrid exultation possessed me, such as the fell Tiberius may have
                        experienced when he bade his men hurl the shrinking form of a soft-limbed
                        favourite from this precipice.
                    "Possibly my shaken nerves were affected by the hideous memories clinging to
                        these unhallowed ruins; possibly also by the oppressive heat of the day.
                    "Sea and sky, indeed, looked in harmony with unnatural sensations; as though
                        some dread burst of passion were gathering intensity under their apparently
                        sluggish calm.
                    "Though the sky overhead was of a sultry blue, yet above the coast-line of
                        Naples, standing out with preternatural distinctness, uncouth, livid clouds
                        straggled chaotically to the upper sky, here and there reaching lank,
                        shadowy films, like gigantic arms, far into the zenith.
                    Flocks of sea-birds were uneasily flying landwards; screaming, they wheeled
                        round the sphinx-like rocks, and disappeared by degrees in their red clefts
                        and fissures.
                    "All at once I was startled in my fitful, half-mechanical playing, by a
                        piercing scream; this was almost immediately followed by a confused noise of
                        sobs and cries, and a running of people to and fro, which seemed, however,
                        to be approaching nearer. I was just going  to hurry to the spot whence the noise proceeded, when some dozen of girls
                        came rushing towards me.
                    "But before I had time to inquire into the cause of their excitement, or to
                        observe them more closely, a grey-haired woman, with a pale, terror-stricken
                        face, seized hold of my hand, crying—
                    "'The Madonna be praised, he has a violin! Hasten, hasten! Follow us or she
                        will die!'
                    "And then the girls, beckoning and gesticulating, laid hold of my arm, my
                        coat, my hand, some pulling, some pushing me along, all jabbering and crying
                        together, and repeating more and more urgently the only words that I could
                        make out—'Musica! Musica!'
                    "But while I stared at them in blank amazement, thinking they must all have
                        lost their wits together, I was unconsciously being dragged and pushed along
                        till we came to a kind of ruined marble staircase, down which they hurried
                        me into something still resembling a spacious chamber; for though the wild
                        fig-tree and cactus pushed their fantastic branches through gaps in the
                        walls, these stood partly upright as yet, discovering in places the dull red
                        glow of weather-stained wall-paintings.
                    "The floor too was better preserved than any I had seen; though cracked and
                        in part overrun by ivy, it showed portions of the original white and black
                        tesselated work.
                    "On this floor, with her head pillowed on a shattered capital, lay a
                        prostrate figure without life or motion, and with limbs rigidly extended as
                        in death.
                    "The old woman, throwing herself on her knees before this lifeless figure,
                        loosened the handkerchief round  her neck,
                        and then, as though to feel whether life yet lingered, she put her hand on
                        the heart of the unconscious girl, when, suddenly jumping up again, she ran
                        to me panting—
                    "'Oh, sir, good sir, play, play for the love of the Madonna!' And the others
                        all echoed as with one voice, 'Musica! Musica!'
                    "'Is this a time to make music?' cried I, in angry bewilderment. 'The girl
                        seems dying or dead. Run quick for a doctor—or stay; if you will tell me
                        where he lives I will go myself and bring him hither with all speed.'
                    "For all answer the grey-haired woman, who was evidently the girl's mother,
                        fell at my feet, and clasping my knees, she cried in a voice broken by sobs,
                        'Oh, good sir, kind sir, my girl has been bitten by the tarantula! Nothing
                        in the world can save her but you, if with your playing you can make her
                        rise up and dance!'
                    "Then darting back once more to the girl, who lay as motionless as before,
                        she screamed in shrill despair, 'She's getting as cold as ice; the
                        death-damps will be on her if you will not play for my darling.'
                    "And all the girls, pointing as with one accord to my violin, chimed in once
                        again, crying more peremptorily than before, 'Musica! Musica!'
                    "There was no arguing with these terror-stricken, imploring creatures, so I
                        took the instrument that had been doomed to destruction to call the
                        seemingly dead to life with it.
                    "What possessed me then I know not: but never before or since did the music
                        thus waken within the strings of its own demoniacal will and leap responsive
                        to my fingers.
                    
                    "Perhaps the charm lay in the devout belief which the listeners had in the
                        efficacy of my playing. They say your fool would cease to be one if nobody
                        believed in his folly.
                    "Well, I played, beginning with an andante,
                        at the very first notes of which the seemingly lifeless girl rose to her
                        feet as if by enchantment, and stood there, taller by the head than the
                        ordinary Capri girls, her companions, who were breathlessly watching her. So
                        still she stood, that with her shut eyes and face of unearthly pallor she
                        might have been taken for a statue, till, as I slightly quickened the
                            tempo, a convulsive tremor passed
                        through her rigid, exquisitely moulded limbs, and then with measured
                        gestures of inexpressible grace she began slowly swaying herself to and fro.
                        Softly her eyes unclosed now, and mistily as yet their gaze dwelt upon me.
                        There was intoxication in their fixed stare, and almost involuntarily I
                        struck into an impassioned allegro.
                    "No sooner had the tempo changed than a
                        spirit of new life seemingly entered the girl's frame. A smile, transforming
                        her features, wavered over her countenance, kindling fitful lightnings of
                        returning consciousness in her dark mysterious eyes. Looking about her with
                        an expression of wide-eyed surprise, she eagerly drank in the sounds of the
                        violin; her graceful movements became more and more violent, till she
                        whirled in ever-widening circles round about the roofless palace chamber,
                        athwart which flurried bats swirled noiselessly through the gathering
                        twilight. Hither and thither she glided, no sooner completing the circle in
                        one direction than, snapping her fingers with a passionate cry, she wheeled
                             round in an opposite course,
                        sometimes clapping her hands together and catching up snatches of my own
                        melody, sometimes waving aloft or pressing to her bosom the red kerchief or
                            mucadore she had worn knotted in her
                        hair, which, now unloosened, twined about her ivory-like neck and shoulders
                        in a serpentine coil.
                    "Fear, love, anguish, and pleasure, seemed alternately to possess her mobile
                        countenance. Her face indicated violent transitions of passion; her hands
                        appeared as if struggling after articulate expression of their own; her
                        limbs were contorted with emotion: in short, every nerve and fibre in her
                        body seemed to translate the music into movement.
                    "As I looked on a demon seemed to enter my brain and fingers, hurrying me
                        into a bacchanalian frenzy of sound; and the faster I played the more
                        furiously her dizzily-gliding feet flashed hither and thither in a
                        bewildering, still-renewing maze, so that from her to me and me to her an
                        electric impulse of rhythmical movement perpetually vibrated to and fro.
                    "Ever and anon the semicircle of eagerly-watching girls, sympathetically
                        thrilled by the spectacle, clapped their hands, shouting for joy, and,
                        balancing themselves on tiptoe, joined in the headlong dance. And as they
                        glided to and fro, the wild roses and ivy and long tendrils of the vine
                        flaunting it on the crumbling walls seemed to wave in unison and dance round
                        the dancing girls.
                    "As I went on playing the never-ending, still beginning tune, night overtook
                        us, and we should have been in profound obscurity but for continuous
                        brilliant flashes of lightning shooting up from the horizon like the  gleaming lances hurled as from the
                        vanguard of an army of Titans.
                    "In the absorbing interest, however, with which we watched the deliriously
                        whirling figure, unconscious of aught but the music, we took but little note
                        of the lightning. Sometimes, when from some black turreted thunder-cloud a
                        triple-pronged dart came hissing and crackling to the earth as though
                        launched by the very hand of Jove, I saw thirteen hands suddenly lifted,
                        thirteen fingers instinctively flying from brow to breast making the sign of
                        the cross, and heard thirteen voices mutter as one, 'Nel nome del Padre e
                        del Figlio e dello Spirito Santo.'
                    "But the ecstatic dancer paused not nor rested in her incredible exertions;
                        the excited girls alternately told their beads, and then joined in the dance
                        again; while the grey-haired mother, kneeling on the marble pediment of what
                        might have been the fragment of a temple of Bacchus, lifted her hands in
                        prayer to a little shrine of the Madonna, placed there, strangely enough,
                        amidst the relics of paganism.
                    "All of a sudden, however, a horrific blaze, emitted from a huge focus of
                        intolerable light, set the whole heavens aflame; As from a fresh-created
                        baleful sun, blue and livid and golden-coloured lightnings were shivered
                        from it on all sides; dull, however, in comparison to the central ball,
                        which, bursting instantaneously, bathed the sky, earth, and air in one
                        insufferable glare of phosphorescent light. The deadly blue flame lit up
                        everything with a livid brightness unknown today.
                    "Walls and faded wall-paintings, limbs of decapitated  goddesses gleaming white through the grass and
                        rioting weeds, tottering columns, arches and vaults, and deserted galleries
                        receding in endless perspective, leaped out lifelike on a background of
                        night and storm.
                    "With piercing shrieks the horrified maidens scattered and fled to the
                        remotest corner of the ruin, where they fell prone on their faces quivering
                        in a heap. In a voice strangled by fear the kneeling mother called for
                        protection on the Virgin and all the saints! The violin dropped from my
                        nerveless grasp, and at the self-same moment the beautiful dancer, like one
                        struck by a bullet, tottered and dropped to the ground, where she lay
                        without sense or motion.
                    "At that instant a clap of thunder so awful, so heaven-rending, rattled
                        overhead, so roared and banged and clattered among the clouds, that I
                        thought the shadowy ruin, tottering and rocking with the shock, would come
                        crashing about us and bury us under its remains.
                    "But as the thunder rolled on farther and farther, seemingly rebounding from
                        cloud to cloud, I recovered my self-possession, and in mortal fear rushed to
                        the side of the prostrate girl. I was trembling all over like a coward as I
                        bent down to examine her. Had the lightning struck her when she fell so
                        abruptly to the ground? Had life for ever forsaken that magnificent form,
                        those divinest limbs? Would those heavy eyelashes never again be raised from
                        those dazzling eyes? Breathlessly I moved aside the dusky hair covering her
                        like a pall. Breathlessly I placed my hand on her heart; a strange shiver
                        and spark quivered through it to my heart. Yet she was chill as  ice and motionless as a stone. 'She is dead, she
                        is dead' I moaned; and the pang for one I had never known exceeded
                        everything I had felt in my life.
                    "'You mistake, Signor,' some one said close beside me; and on looking up I
                        saw the mother intently gazing down on her senseless child. 'My Tolla is not
                        hurt,' she cried; 'she only fell when you left off playing the tarantella;
                        she will arise as soon as you go on.'
                    "Pointing to the lightning still flickering and darting overhead, I cried,
                        'But you are risking your lives for some fantastic whim, some wild
                        superstition of yours. You are mad to brave such a storm! You expose your
                        child to undoubted peril that you may ward off some illusory evil. Let me
                        bear her to the inn, and follow me thither.' And I was going to lift the
                        senseless form in my arms when the woman sternly prevented me.
                    "In vain I argued, pleaded, reasoned with her. She only shook her head and
                        cried piteously, 'Give her music, more music, for the love of the dear
                        Madonna!' And the girls, who by this time had plucked up courage and
                        gathered round us, echoed again as with one voice, 'Musica! Musica!'
                    "What was I to do? I could not drag them away by force, and certainly, for
                        aught I knew, she might have been in equal danger from the poison or the
                        storm wherever we were. As for peril to myself I cared not. I was in a devil
                        of a mood, and all the pent-up, bitter passion of my soul seemed to find a
                        vent and safety-valve in that stupendous commotion of the elements.
                    "So I searched for my instrument on the ground, and now noticed, to my
                        astonishment, that although the storm had swept away from us, the whole ruin
                        was  nevertheless brightly illuminated. On
                        looking up I saw the topmost branches of a solitary stone-pine one dazzle of
                        flames. Rising straight on high from a gap in the wall which its roots had
                        shattered, it looked a colossal chandelier on which the lightning had
                        kindled a thousand tapers. There was not a breath of air, not a drop of
                        rain, so that the flames burned clear and steady as under cover of a mighty
                        dome.
                    "By this brilliant light, in which every object from a human form to a marble
                        acanthus leaf cast sharp-edged shadows, I soon discovered my violin on a
                        tangle of flowering clematis, and began tuning its strings.
                    "No sooner had I struck into the same lively, impassioned tune, than the
                        strange being rose again as by magic, and, slowly opening her intoxicating
                        eyes, began swaying herself to and fro with the same graceful gestures and
                        movements that I had already observed.
                    "Thus I played all through the night, long after the rear-guard of the
                        thunder-storm had disappeared below the opposite horizon whence it first
                        arose—played indefatigably on and on like a man possessed, and still, by the
                        torch of the burning pine, I saw the beautiful mænad-like figure whirling to
                        and fro with miraculous endurance. Now and then; through the deep silence, I
                        heard a scarred pine-bough come crackling to the earth; now and then I heard
                        the lowing of the stabled cattle in some distant part of the ruin; once and
                        again, smiting like a cry, I heard one string snapping after another under
                        my pitiless hands.
                    "Still I played on, though a misty quiver of sparks was dancing about my
                        eyes, till the fallow-tinted dawn gleamed faintly in the east.
                    
                    "At last, at last, a change stole over the form and features of the
                        indefatigable dancer. Her companions, overcome with fatigue,had long ago
                        sunk to the ground, where, with their little ruffled heads resting on any
                        bit of marble, they lay sleeping calmly like little children. Only the
                        mother still watched and prayed for her child, the unnatural tension of
                        whose nerves and muscles now seemed visibly to relax; for the mad light of
                        exaltation in her eyes veiled itself in softness, her feet moved more and
                        more slowly, and her arms, which had heretofore been in constant motion,
                        drooped languidly to her side. I, too, relaxed in my tempo, and the thrilling, vivacious tune melted away in a
                        dying strain.
                    "At the expiring notes, when I had but one string left, her tired eyes closed
                        as in gentlest sleep, a smile hovered about her lips, her head sank heavily
                        forward on her bosom, and she would have fallen had not her mother received
                        the swooning form into her outstretched arms.
                    "At the same moment my last string snapped, a swarming darkness clouded my
                        sight, the violin fell from my wet, burning hands, and I reeled back, faint
                        and dizzy, when I felt soft arms embracing me, and somebody sobbed and
                        laughed, 'You have saved her, Maëstro; praise be to God and all His saints
                        in heaven! May the Madonna bless you for ever and ever——'
                    "I heard no more, but fell into a death-like swoon."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    THE SIRENS' ROCK.
                    LEOPOLD SONTHEIM, who had sat listening to his friend with the deepest
                        interest, said, as he shifted his position and refilled his pipe, "What you
                        tell me seems to surpass the bounds of probability. Of course I have vaguely
                        heard of the superstition concerning the bite of the tarantula, but could
                        never have believed that it still had such a hold on the people, or produced
                        effects such as you have been describing."
                    "Yes, I know that the strange facts that I have been, and shall still have to
                        relate to you, may at the present date sound incredible; and, indeed, modern
                        enlightenment has driven these curious manifestations into remote places of
                        the Neapolitan kingdom. They are nevertheless true, and were witnessed by
                        friends of mine who happened to be present on different occasions. The
                        explanation given me by a clever young physician concerning the singular
                        spectacle in which I had been  made to act
                        the prominent part I have described, I will leave till later—if, indeed, you
                        are interested to hear more about what is called tarantismo.
                    Let me hear, by all means, what rational explanation or scientific theory
                        there is concerning the phenomena you have described," cried Sontheim; "but
                        at present I am on the tenter-hooks of expectation to know what became of
                        the dancer among the ruins."
                    "When I again came to consciousness," said the musician, resuming his
                        narrative, "I was lying in bed, and for some time I remained quite still,
                        trying to piece together, as I thought, the fragments of the most astounding
                        dream I had ever dreamed. A heavy inexplicable languor possessed my senses;
                        I burned as with fever, and my pulse hammered against my temples. I thought,
                        with a shiver, that the fever I had once had in Naples had come back, and
                        thus accounted for what seemed mere delirious wanderings. And with a
                        terrible sinking of the heart I asked myself what was to become of me if I
                        should be laid up with the fever, far from all friends, with no money, in
                        this corner of the world. Well, if it came to the worst, they could but send
                        me to their asylum, and perchance turn me to some account by making me play
                        the fiddle for the delectation of blind soldiers.
                    "I was perishing with thirst; so I raised myself up in bed in order to ring
                        the bell, but found on moving that every joint of my body ached, and that my
                        wrists in particular were stiff and numb with pain.
                    "As I was pondering on this strange fact, the door opened, and my hostess
                        entered carrying a tray. Looking at me with an odd mixture of curiosity and
                        awe, she  inquired after my health with
                        more than the habitual Italian courtesy; and without waiting for my reply
                        said sympathetically, 'Oh, Madonna mia, but the Signor looks pale and ill
                        after the miracle he performed last night.' And she held a cool slice of
                        melon to my lips in quite a motherly fashion.
                    "The miracle I had worked last night! It had not been a dream then! And as
                        her words dispelled the drowsy heaviness that still obscured my brain, the
                        whole fantastic scene flashed again with startling vividness before my
                        mind's eye. As I lay back on the pillow to collect my thoughts, my kind
                        hostess, thinking I had fainted, rubbed my temples with vinegar, which
                        considerably invigorated me.
                    "I now began eagerly questioning her, but instead of answering me she
                        insisted on my taking some of the food she had brought. While I did so she
                        drew a chair close to the bed-side, in which she comfortably settled herself
                        with some needlework, prepared evidently to answer any questions or spin any
                        yarn to my heart's desire.
                    "My first inquiries of course concerned the beautiful, mysterious creature,
                        whose eyes, on shutting mine, I saw as plainly before me as we see the
                        spectrum of the sun after daring to look too long at its blinding light.
                    "Who was she? Was she alive and well? Did she, indeed, believe that my
                        fiddling had saved her life? What were her parents? How came she by this
                        dancing mania? Had she really been bitten by the tarantula? And did the bite
                        of this spider ever imperil life, or produce the astonishing effects I had
                        seen?
                    "My hostess took up my last question first, and  assured me, in perfect good faith, that although
                        certain persons of an unbelieving and suspicious turn of mind might ridicule
                        the fear of those venomous insects, their bite, if not often fatal, was yet
                        frequently the cause of serious disorders, as she could prove to me by facts
                        within her own experience, disorders only averted if the unfortunate
                        tarantati were set dancing without intermission to the tune of some
                        tarantella that took their fancy until they were overcome by resistless
                        lassitude.
                    "Some people, she fancied, were more easily put in peril by the bite of the
                        tarantula than others. It would take a good many tarantulas, she thought, to
                        send her into convulsions. But with Antonella Mansi it was quite another
                        affair. There was not a girl in all the island to whom the sting of this
                        spider would have been so fatal.
                    "'Ah!' I cried; 'how is that?'
                    "She was just going to answer me when, being loudly called for, she had to
                        hurry away, leaving me with my unslaked curiosity. Nor was there any chance
                        at present of otherwise satisfying the same by getting up and finding out
                        things for myself, for I was so stiff and exhausted that every movement gave
                        me pain; and I soon fell fast asleep again, and actually never woke till the
                        next morning, when, feeling thoroughly restored, I hastened to dress and
                        leave my room.
                    "My one idea was to see again, under altered conditions, the heroine of the
                        nocturnal dance. After having made inquiries of my hostess as to her
                        whereabouts, I picked my way to the little mountain town of Ana-Capri, to
                        which the ascent consists in an infinite number of steep steps roughly hewn
                        in the rock itself.
                    
                    "When I had got about half-way up I overtook some girls walking in front of
                        me, carrying heavy baskets on their heads, and singing a tune that was known
                        to me a strangely familiar tune. In another instant it flashed upon my
                        recollection that this was the very tarantella I had myself composed in a
                        kind of inspired trance. Warbled by those fresh, bird-like voices, it struck
                        me with immense admiration; and why not, pray, simply because it happened to
                        be by myself?
                    "As I overtook these Capri girls, stepping so buoyantly under their burdens,
                        they looked at me curiously from under their sombre eyebrows, then with a
                        start of recognition blushed, curtsied, and eyed me with childlike awe.
                    "Turning to one of the girls who looked a little less shy than the others, I
                        begged her to direct me to the house where Antonella Mansi lived. So we all
                        climbed the remaining steps together, but I could get nothing out of her or
                        any of the others about the strange being who so perplexed and fascinated
                        me. To all my questions their only answer was a shake of the head, or
                        evasive exclamation which left me more bewildered than before.
                    "After a toilsome ascent, which, although it nearly left me out of breath, in
                        no wise affected my pretty guides, we reached a platform from which there
                        was a magnificent view of Capri and the still, dream-like expanse of the far
                        blue sea. But, impatient to reach my goal, I only cast a hasty glance at the
                        prospect, as I hurried along through a scene that could not otherwise have
                        failed to arrest my attention.
                    "Presently, when we entered Ana-Capri, my timid  companions, after showing me the way, left me to
                        myself in this most quaint, most idyllic of towns. Coming as I did out of
                        the burning sunshine, I can recall even now the feeling of balmy coolness
                        which the thickets of olive and myrtetus and bay and the large-leafed
                        fig-tree, diffused through the air. Through these and other flowering and
                        fruit-bearing trees and shrubs I saw small Moorish-looking houses, on whose
                        flat white roofs there were women and girls singing to the clatter of their
                        busy looms; others sat plaiting straw, or spinning yellow silk, before their
                        doors in the shadow of the vine-covered pergola.
                    "It was a spot beautiful enough to have been the birthplace of her I was in
                        quest of.
                    "At the other end of the little town, in which I had not as yet seen a single
                        man, I found the house of Signora Mansi. A vine-covered archway formed by a
                        series of columns brought me to the door.
                    "As my knocking met with no response I entered unbidden, but the sudden
                        change from daylight to the gloom of the low, dark chamber made it
                        impossible at first to distinguish one object from another. I looked about
                        me in vain for her whose life I was supposed to have saved. But as my eyes
                        became more accustomed to the darkness, I noticed that some one was kneeling
                        in a corner before a shrine of the Madonna with a dim lamp burning before
                        it; but so absorbed in prayer that my entrance had been unheeded.
                    "On my coughing the suppliant looked round and rose hastily. It was
                        Antonella's mother. Her sorrowful, careworn face, in which there yet
                        lingered traces of beauty, was lit up with an expression of devout gratitude
                             as she came towards me, hardly able
                        to find words in her emotion. She would have sought me out before, she said,
                        to thank me for a service which she could never in this life hope to
                        repay—but for which she would day and night entreat the Madonna to help
                        me—had not her daughter's peculiar state taken up all her time and
                        attention.
                    "'And how is your daughter now?' I cried; 'has she not yet recovered from the
                        effects of the spider's bite? or is she still suffering from the
                        consequences of her extraordinary exertions of the other night?'
                    "'Ah, Dio mio!' sighed the mother, shaking her head. 'My poor girl, Signor,
                        is not as she should be. I know not what ails her, but she is strange,
                        wayward, full of caprices, and nothing will induce her to settle to her
                        spindle or loom again. Then she has lost her high spirits, and looks so
                        dull, sad, and melancholy, that it makes my heart ache to see her. I thought
                        at first, to be sure, that it was all right; for she slept like a baby after
                        that dance, and in the evening woke up quite gay and lively, and would go
                        for a while and sit chatting on the top of the stairs with the other
                        girls.
                    "'But when she came back I noticed that she looked listless and dispirited,
                        and all through the night she wept and sobbed and wrung her hands; and do
                        what I would I could not get my unhappy child to tell me what ailed her, but
                        she stared mutely before her just as if she had lost her speech. So I left
                        her a little in the morning, thinking that maybe she might be better alone,
                        and went to my loom. For we poor people, Signor, must still be busy whatever
                        our burdens—and mine have been heavy; and just when I was taking  comfort in the thought that the poor child might
                        have gone to sleep, if there was not a heavy bumping as of some piece of
                        furniture that had fallen, and when I rushed in there was my Tolla tossing
                        and writhing about on the floor, with her beautiful face distorted and her
                        eyes quite wild.
                    "'I could not think what to do, and sent Bice for our hermit in my fright.
                        But, Signor, would you believe it, when the holy man entered and knelt down
                        to pray the good St. Anthony, she looked at him with horror and was quite
                        beside herself. And as the good, patient man went on praying for her soul,
                        in spite of her unbecoming behaviour, she screamed and then fell into
                        convulsions, till I had to ask him to go, begging pardon for my most unhappy
                        child.'
                    "I had listened to all this with deep commiseration, but was burning to know
                        what had become of Antonella at present, and asked eagerly whether I could
                        not perhaps do something to ease her sufferings. But I heard then that she
                        had again seemed much better this morning, and that nothing would satisfy
                        her but going to look for coral on the little Marina, which had always been
                        a favourite pursuit of hers. Her mother had not liked to deny her anything,
                        yet was in hourly apprehension of some harm befalling her child.
                    "'I will go and look after her myself,' I cried, rising eagerly; 'perhaps in
                        some way or other I may again exercise a beneficial effect on her.'
                    "'But I fear we are trespassing too heavily on your kindness,' said the
                        anxious mother, with tears in her eyes. 'Yet if you would be so truly good,
                        it would be a load off my mind, Signor. Perhaps it will settle her  spirits again if you reason with her.
                        Bice shall show you the way;' and she stepped down the archway, calling the
                        girl across the road. Almost immediately my guide of the morning came
                        running towards us, and readily agreed to accompany me.
                    "'But you must not go without having tasted a morsel of anything,' cried the
                        kindly woman, mindful of others even in this engrossing anxiety. Eager to
                        get off as I was, I had yet to submit, in order not to hurt her feelings,
                        while she cut me some figs growing on a prickly cactus-tree, which I
                        promised to eat on the way.
                    "What a scramble that was down the rugged track, zig-zagging along the side
                        of a castle-crowned hill, which brought us to a lonely strand, apparently
                        blocked off from the rest of the world by a semicircle of rude, precipitous
                        cliffs, and only open to the illimitable sea. Black, ill-looking rocks,
                        strewn about confusedly, littered the beach and stretched some way into the
                        sea, where they formed a half-submerged peninsula crouching amidst the
                        rippling flash of the languishing waves.
                    "Never was desolation more magical. On either side of this shore yawned
                        mysterious caverns greedily sucking in the sea, and full of little sibilant
                        noises as of stifled laughter.
                    "'There she sits by the Madonna, on the rock of Sirens!' my companion
                        whispered in an awe-struck tone, softly plucking me by the sleeve. I looked
                        eagerly up and down and round about the deserted little beach, but all the
                        signs of human life I saw were two fishermen's huts, so rough and rude that
                        I had confounded  them with the boulders
                        amidst which they were placed. 'Oh, look right up there, Signor!' whispered
                        the girl, pointing on high.
                    "Good heavens! On a crag too steep and slippery to afford foothold to a goat,
                        it seemed, I saw a solitary figure, bathed in sunlight, intently gazing
                        seawards. It turned me sick and giddy as I looked.
                    "But my guide, picking her way like a young she-goat over the slippery
                        stones, led me round to the foot of the crag, and there pointed out what
                        appeared the least break-neck track to its dizzy top. She then bade me
                        farewell, as she had to get back to her work, and thought, besides, that in
                        Tolla's present strange mood it might be safest for me to accost her
                        alone.
                    "In any ordinary mood I know I could never have climbed up that slippery
                        pathless rock, steeply overhanging the sea. But under the present
                        circumstances I desperately clambered and stumbled along, sometimes
                        ignominiously getting along on all fours, sometimes clutching hold of the
                        coarse tufts of grass growing here and there from some crevice. When at last
                        I reached a ridge some yards from the summit, where there was a firm hold
                        for the feet; I had to stop and take breath for a moment. Partly hidden
                        myself behind a projection in the rock, I now beheld in the light of day a
                        face and figure only seen as yet by the livid storm-light.
                    "My God, how beautiful she was! with a mysterious, strange beauty, more
                        startling even when thus seen, with the pure pale contours of her profile
                        outlined against the deep blue air, as she sat there holding some gorgeous
                        cactus-flower, scarce redder than her lips, which she was pulling to pieces,
                        so that the shredded  petals were strewn
                        about her dark blue petticoat. She seemed to find a sort of enjoyment in
                        blowing bits of them on the air, where they went fluttering like the
                        bloodied feathers of little dead birds and then dropped into the sea. In her
                        blue-black hair, braided closely at the back of the head, she also wore red
                        flowers—oleander blossoms and roses of a dull crimson; and round her neck
                        rows upon rows of coral, hanging low over the red faded handkerchief,
                        crossed over her bosom and tied behind the waist.
                    "At a glance I had taken all this in which it takes so long to describe, and
                        a few hasty, desperate strides now brought me to the top; in another instant
                        I stood at her side.
                    "On seeing me thus unexpectedly before her, the girl, oddly enough, looked
                        neither surprised nor startled, only her face, hardly less pale now than
                        when I had first seen it, was suffused by an intense burning blush, that
                        disappeared as swiftly as it came, and left her still whiter than before.
                        She looked up at me and smiled. No, not smiled; only her eyes emitted a
                        bewildering flash of light that for the moment transfigured the melancholy
                        of her countenance.
                    "Then she half rose, and bending towards me with a lowly grace, said in a
                        low, muffled voice: 'It is you, Maëstro. They tell me you have saved my
                        life.' Then letting the stripped cactus stalk drop from her hand, she
                        muttered, with a droop of the heavy lashes, 'Why, why did you save it?' And
                        she turned and looked towards the sea with a hungry wistfulness in her eyes
                        it frightened me to see.
                    "Rather taken aback by her strange manner I sat  down beside her, and expressed my surprise at her
                        feeling no fear thus perched on the very edge of a precipice overhanging the
                        boiling surf. For all answer she burst into a peal of shrill, wild laughter,
                        in weird contrast with the previous dejection of her mien and attitude. At
                        that instant a dim sense of repulsion passed like a shadow across my
                        consciousness, but disappeared as quickly before the light of her triumphant
                        beauty.
                    "'Fear!' she repeated, in the same muffled tones, springing to her feet at a
                        bound, and half leaning over the giddy verge with a look of exultation which
                        sent a thrill of horror through my every nerve.
                    "'You must be mad!' I cried, seizing her by the hand and roughly pulling her
                        back. 'How dare you thus play fast and loose with your life—if not for your
                        sake, for your mother's? Do you forget that even now she is watching, and
                        trembling, and praying for you? Have you no love, no pity on her?'
                    "I spoke quite angrily, tightly clasping her hand, which lay cold and
                        unresisting in my own.
                    "My words had a most powerful effect on her. The dare-devil expression that
                        had for a moment gleamed in her eyes died out immediately, and for all
                        answer tears gathered in her eyes, like a chidden child's, and rolled down
                        her oval cheeks.
                    "Where is the man that can withstand a woman's tears? And if there is such a
                        creature, why degrade him to the rank of the brutes! My anger melted into
                        something more than pity at the sight of this magnificent creature seemingly
                        possessed by some subtle ill, perhaps by some recondite malady of the
                        nerves, for which I of all others ought to feel sympathy.
                    
                    "That shrinking, as from something alien that I had obscurely felt was
                        utterly obliterated on seeing those tears; and, drawing closer to her, I
                        could not help addressing her by some soft, endearing phrases.
                    "On hearing me speak to her thus tenderly, a smile parted her lips, curved
                        like Cupid's bow, and disclosed her little milk-white teeth; and wiping away
                        the tears still glistening on her long lashes, she looked at me with her
                        moist siren-like eyes. The perilous sweetness of that look threatened to
                        upset my equanimity for good and all. I felt an irresistible desire to kiss
                        that soft, alluring mouth. But then she had been entrusted to my care; I had
                        made myself responsible for her safety. She was so young, so ignorant! I was
                        surely in honour bound to protect her from the harm I might myself inflict,
                        and I resolutely tried to master my rising passion. Therefore, as a man
                        borne along a rapid current clutches at the frailest reed to stem his
                        headlong course, so I, swept away against my better reason by a tumultuous
                        emotion, was anxious to snatch at the first harmless topic in order to
                        divert the rush of dangerous feelings threatening to carry us—who knows
                        whither?
                    "Having noticed, as she lifted her hand to her face, a ring of singular
                        effulgence on one of her fingers, I again took her hand in my own, and asked
                        her how she had come by so rare a trinket. The hoop, it is true, was only of
                        silver, but set in it was a fire-opal, flaming as only this stone will when
                        subjected to the sun's rays.
                    "The question seemed less harmless, however, than I had imagined in my
                        ignorance.
                    "A riddling change came over the ever-shifting  countenance. The pupils of her dark eyes dilated
                        as though she were looking at some fearful object invisible to any one but
                        herself; then, without a word, she rose to her full height, and pointing to
                        the little shore below, said in a choked voice, 'Come, come, you shall know
                        how I came by this ring,' and with firm, unerring step she led the way down
                        the precipitous track.
                    "In my relief to get her so easily away from her break-neck haunt, I followed
                        her as best I could to the shore."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    THE RING.
                    "IN silence we reached the little Marina, and in silence still Antonella,
                        with her erect and queen-like carriage, walked on in front of me, over the
                        black, uneven stones. The beach was less deserted than when I had first seen
                        it. On a small strip of silver sand sat a fisherman; mending his nets, while
                        a woman was hanging out linen to dry in the sun.
                    "Presently we came to the mouth of a cave, so situated in an angle of the
                        rock that it would have escaped my attention had not my beautiful companion
                        led the way into it.
                    "On entering, its dark gloom struck me with a chill sensation, hot with the
                        sun as I was. It was a lofty cavern, full of sinuosities, and the walls,
                        glistening with moisture, were stained in places by dull red blotches not
                        unlike congealed blood. What unknown 
                        crimes might not the sea have perpetrated here on the helpless bodies of
                        shipwrecked men!
                    "Slipping occasionally over the large sea-spiders and other jelly-like marine
                        creatures, I followed Antonella to the side of the cavern, where a natural
                        projection in the rock served us for a bench to sit down upon. All this time
                        her features worked with suppressed excitement, and I noticed that her hand
                        was trembling as pointing to the dim-lit interior, she said, in a scared
                        voice, 'There he lay—there!'
                    "It was a strange, terrible tale that was then brokenly unfolded to me by
                        those coral lips—a tale interrupted by sighs and shudders; while I, sitting
                        there, burned to comfort the narrator with kisses, had I dared.
                    "It was Antonella's habit, it seems, to resort to this lonely beach in search
                        of the coral she loved, and she had thus come by the magnificent necklace
                        round her throat.
                    "Well, one morning of the preceding autumn, after a violent storm had ravaged
                        their olive and fig trees, she had gone there very early, as she knew the
                        sea would often throw up great pieces of it at such times.
                    "On reaching the shelving beach nearly opposite the cave, she came upon the
                        smashed portion of a fishing-boat; and presently, having entered it—for she
                        had on previous occasions often found coral there—she saw, in the spot she
                        had indicated, a young man lying prostrate, and seemingly in a dying
                        condition.
                    "Her first impulse was to succour him in some way, but when she tried to
                        raise his head he cried out with pain, and begged her not to touch him, for
                        he had been crushed by the boat; and turning his glazed eyes 
                            pite-
                            piteously
                        
                         ously upon her he begged her to fetch a
                        priest, and yet when she was running off he convulsively clutched hold of
                        her skirt, and seemed imploring her not to abandon him in this state.
                    "A dreadful predicament this for a young girl to be in. At last, in her
                        helpless terror, she could do nothing but scream out wildly, and her screams
                        luckily reached a fisherman, who was just then apparently gathering together
                        the waifs and strays of the wrecked boat. He was soon at her side, and in
                        the excitement of the moment, without preparing her in any way for the
                        shock, told her it was her father's felucca lying outside.
                    "Her father and her brother were coral fishers, constantly cruising about
                        these seas as far as the African coast; and when Antonella was thus suddenly
                        apprised of the fate that had probably overtaken them, she fell almost
                        fainting, on the floor of the cavern beside the dying man.
                    "He, apparently, had been attending to what was going on, for, with a groan
                        of pain, he slightly moved his head, and looking at the girl with a sudden
                        flaring up of life in his eyes; asked, 'Are you Tolla—Tolla Mansi?'
                    "The fisherman replied in the affirmative; but the sufferer, recalled to his
                        situation, again called out for a priest, that he might be shriven of his
                        sins; and the former, comprehending the paramount importance of the request,
                        hurried off in search of one without further delay.
                    "Presently Antonella, somewhat recovered, raised herself on her elbow, when
                        she found the eyes of the stranger fixed upon her with a look of mute appeal
                        and  entreaty. With another groan he
                        slightly raised his hand, making a sign to her to approach more closely.
                    "'You are Tolla?' he then said, faintly, when her ear almost touched his
                        livid lips. 'I am Tonino, from Girgenti in Sicily—I came to marry you—your
                        brother described to me your——ah! you are more beautiful than he said—here,
                        take this,' he moaned, pointing to a ring on his finger. 'It was to be
                        your—a talisman——'
                    "His voice failed him entirely here, and while feebly trying to take the ring
                        off, a spasm of agony contracted his limbs; some internal rupture had taken
                        place, and before the fisherman returned with a Capuchin friar, the Sicilian
                        youth had expired.
                    "When some restoratives had been administered to Antonella, she was at last
                        able to tell the fragmentary story she had heard to the Capuchin friar, who
                        was a hermit held in great awe by the islanders. The ring, she explained,
                        when they were about to remove the body, had been bequeathed her by the
                        expiring man with his last breath.
                    "The hermit, however, exhorted her to dedicate it to the service of the
                        Madonna del Carmine, saying that the ring off a dead man's finger was sure
                        to bring her ill-luck. But seeing that she had set her heart upon it he
                        reluctantly did as she bade him, although the friar still persisted that
                        nothing but misfortune could come of it.
                    "Antonella, having told me all this with quivering lips and evident deep
                        emotion, suddenly asked naively, with an extraordinary change of manner, as
                        though quite relieved by her narrative—
                    "'But what do you say, Maëstro? Do you think danger can spring from a thing
                        so beautiful?'
                    
                    "Inquiringly she raised to mine dark eyes whose fire outshone that of the
                        precious stone. As she looked at me thus, I felt like one who drains to
                        intoxication the wine pledged him by an enchantress.
                    "'Oh, my child,' I said, smiling, 'the more beautiful a thing is, the greater
                        sometimes is its peril to the beholder as well as the wearer.'
                    "In her insular simplicity she did not take my meaning at once, but looked at
                        me with a puzzled air which gave an infantine charm to her ever-varying
                        countenance.
                    "Young though she was, only sixteen, her feminine instincts interpreted my
                        meaning to her, for the wickedest smile hovered for just a moment, not so
                        much on her parted lips as in her deep, dark eyes.
                    "Now that smile of Antonella's overthrew the last remains of prudence and
                        forethought still left to me by her tragic narrative.
                    "I never saw any other human being with a smile like hers, haunting one like
                        an unsolved riddle; arch as a child's, yet full of unconscious devilry. Did
                        she know, I wonder—did she guess even then its irresistible witchery?
                    "All this time she was shifting the ring round and round her finger, and then
                        said, looking down—
                    "'If there is danger in the ring——' and then she stopped again. 'Oh,
                        Maëstro,' she went on, in an embarrassed, broken sort of way—'Oh, Maëstro, I
                        wished—that is to say, I hoped—three days I sat watching for you on the
                        stairs at Ana-Capri—they say you have saved my life—and—and—and I am not
                        ungrateful, but I have nothing—nothing at all but this beautiful ring'—  then with a rapid movement she drew it
                        from her finger, and, pressing it into my hand, whispered—'only if it should
                        bring you peril I would not——'
                    "Colouring slightly, she trembled and hesitated; and I was no longer master
                        of myself when I saw the quivering of her lips. Transported by a sudden fit
                        of passion I clasped the girl in my arms, and covered her mouth and blinded
                        her beautiful eyes with my kisses.
                    "What had I done? Where would this end?—were the questions that would obtrude
                        themselves on my feverish exultation, when Antonella, having freed herself
                        at last from my embrace, retreated some paces with a scared, strange look on
                        her face.
                    "Afraid to encounter her eyes, I suddenly turned away, when, uttering a
                        startled exclamation, I looked before me in amazement. Were we in the realm
                        of gnomes and dwarfs—for what but a gnome was that misshapen little object
                        crouching in a dim angle of the opposite wall? My scared exclamation,
                        however, seemed to have attracted the attention of this uncanny-looking
                        creature. For, suddenly rising from its stooping posture, it came limping
                        towards us, and I gradually discovered it to be an old man, whose diminutive
                        stature, club-foot, and white beard might easily give rise to such a
                        delusion by the weird, tawny half-light.
                    "On seeing him draw near, Antonella came close to me again, and said in a
                        frightened whisper: 'The hermit of Santa Maria del Soccorso. Oh, I fear
                        him!'
                    "Now, indeed, I saw, by the dark brown cowl and large peaked hood hanging
                        down behind, that he was a squalid Capuchin friar, with a kind of wallet
                        slung over his shoulder, in which seemed to be deposited all manner  of live creeping things, from a curious
                        wriggling movement going on in the wet pendent ends.
                    "This extraordinary creature stooped all at once and picked up the ring,
                        which it would seem I had dropped in my excitement. He then pressed it into
                        my hand with a gleam of strange malignancy in his rat-like eyes; and while a
                        hideous smile disclosed a couple of yellow, tusk-like teeth, he
                        congratulated Antonella on her recovery—thanks, as he said, first to the
                        Madonna, and next to the Maëstro himself, whose name was in everybody's
                        mouth at Capri.
                    "I noticed that a furtive leer lit up his countenance as he eyed my
                        companion, while cringingly expressing a hope that I would take the ring,
                        which he supposed the maiden had offered me with a becoming sense of
                        gratitude. 'Antonella, Antonella,' he said, in a thin, grating voice,
                        shaking his head warningly, 'beware of the devil who is weaving snares for
                        you! Mind me, the only cure and safeguard for a virgin against a recurrence
                        of the attack is to dedicate herself to the service of the Madonna!'
                    "The cunning look with which he emphasized his words not only convinced me
                        that he had seen all, but that he himself coveted the beautiful creature I
                        had for a moment held in my arms.
                    "The natural impulse which is in man prompted me to knock him down for his
                        impertinence. But then he was such a deformed little horror of a fellow!
                        Could I bear him ill-will for not being blind to those triumphant charms! So
                        I said, looking at him rather carelessly, 'Young girls, we know, are timid
                        enough to start at their own shadows; but should we drive them half
                        distracted with imaginary fears?'
                    
                    "The friar gave me the benefit of another malignant glance, suggestive of the
                        evil eye; then mumbling something in his beard about the 'Ave Maria,' he
                        limped off with as much haste as he could. But at the mouth of the cavern he
                        suddenly turned his big head round, and again said warningly, 'Beware,
                        Antonella, beware!'
                    "The girl looked greatly relieved when he had fairly gone; but I was recalled
                        again to the perilous sweetness of my position. I was shocked at having
                        suffered myself to be thus carried away by my feelings; for had she not been
                        left in my charge, so to speak, by her mother, who regarded me, however
                        mistakenly, as her saviour. Shame upon me if I betrayed the trust of those
                        poor people, whose only pride was their unstained honesty!
                    "I determined, therefore, to hide my feelings from Antonella—and to make her
                        think of my conduct in the least serious light—resolved as I was to avoid
                        ever being left alone with her in the future. For what but disgrace could
                        our intercourse bring to her? However desperately I might be in love with
                        her, marrying any one was at present out of the question for me. I had
                        trouble enough to earn a miserable subsistence, and, besides, my art claimed
                        me utterly. So I would secure myself against further temptation by flying
                        from Capri and its dread siren!
                    "While taking this resolution, Antonella and I were walking silently towards
                        the entrance of the cavern. There I stopped for a minute, and taking her
                        hand in mine, while I tried to look as unconcerned as I could, said,
                        lingeringly slipping the ring back on her finger—
                    "'Antonella, if indeed I have saved your life as they  say, you have repaid me with something far more
                        precious than your ring, and in future you must always consider me as your
                        debtor. But let us go now, for I fear we have been tarrying here overlong,
                        and your poor mother will be quite frightened.'
                    "Antonella made no reply as we left the cave, and the expression of her eyes
                        was difficult to understand. In order to divert her own thoughts as well as
                        my own, I kept asking the name of every rock and promontory as we scrambled
                        over the uneven stones.
                    "It was impossible, indeed, however strong one's preoccupation might be, to
                        remain quite insensible to the glow and glory of that sea and sky on issuing
                        from the twilight cavern. The aspect of nature had undergone a
                        transfiguration.
                    "Though we ourselves were in the shadow which the great rocks were casting
                        over the shore and far across the sea, all the more striking was the
                        contrast with the brightness of the heavens above us, where transparent
                        zones of intense rose-colour, through which the hyacinthine sky was faintly
                        discernible, radiated up to the zenith like the glowing streamers of an
                        Aurora Borealis. In the shadow where we stood everything was tinged with
                        this ruddy glow; but in the far distance sky and sea gleamed with the tints
                        of Antonella's opal.
                    "On our right, facing the orb of the setting sun, two inaccessible rocks
                        rising straight out of the sea (that Antonella called the Faraglione) were
                        smitten by his red level rays, while the waves breaking at their base, and
                        some sea-falcons hovering above them, were steeped in the same dyes; but
                        their towering peaks, ravaged  and
                        weather-stained, loomed mystical in the brightness above and beneath
                        them.
                    "This ineffable spectacle for a moment completely absorbed me. Then turning
                        to Antonella, who, scarcely heeding the scene, was biting one of her coral
                        rows, I said—
                    "'What pleasure you must feel in simply living in this delicious climate,
                        where beauty is as your daily food. Better a peasant here than a prince in
                        our dismal latitudes!'
                    "She looked at me dubiously, and shook her head, saying under her breath: 'I
                        am tired of it—tired of it all but the sea. I should like to go across the
                        water to where the great cities are, they tell me—Rome and Firenze, with
                        crowds of men and women—who wear silk gowns on week-days—and horses and
                        carriages.'
                    "'Oh, Antonella,' I said, shaking my head playfully, 'go where you may you
                        will not match this for beauty. See there, how the moon comes creeping up
                        little by little over that rock, as if she were afraid she might melt away
                        like a waxen image if exposed to the glow of this sunset.'
                    "And with praiseworthy resolution I turned my eyes away from hers, and
                        pointed up to the sky, which was visibly growing darker every instant. But
                        as she made no remark I looked round again, when to my utter amazement I
                        found her gone from my side.
                    "I waited a moment, then called her more and more loudly, but there was no
                        answer save a ghostly repetition of Antonella's name from the caverns which
                        honeycombed the cliffs.
                    "Remembering the girl's peculiarly excitable  temperament and unaccountable moods, I grew thoroughly uneasy on seeing
                        no sigh of her anywhere. I retraced my steps and re-entered the cavern where
                        I had so lately been kissing her. After shouting and peering about in its
                        chill, forbidding interior, I came out again, and sought for her behind
                        every boulder, now casting long sharp shadows in the moonlight.
                    "At last I caught sight of two fishermen just pushing a small boat out to
                        sea. Hurrying up to them, I asked whether they had seen a girl anywhere
                        about; but they only shook their heads as they quickly leaped in after it. I
                        knew not what to do, but, full of fear, hurried in the direction of the
                        Sirens' Rock, and cast one apprehensive glance at its summit, which stood
                        out ominously distinct in the pale luminosity.
                    "Thank heaven she was not there! Divided between fear and the hope that she
                        might have gone home on the sudden, I plodded my way as best I could up the
                        ill-defined track of the rocky hillside."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    SHADOW HUNTING.
                    "WHAT a tantalizing witch of a woman!" cried Sontheim rising from his chair.
                        "She will lead you a pretty dance, my poor friend, to quite another tune, I
                        see. But then, how could you so far forget what is due to fair ladies as to
                        see aught to admire in heaven or earth but the eyes of your charmer? My mind
                        misgives me but you'll have to pay for that leze-majesty to sovereign
                        beauty. Women, you know, whatever they may pretend, care nothing about
                        scenery; and if they have the courage of their sex they are frank enough to
                        show it. I like your Antonella all the better for making off when you began
                        bothering her with all that cant about landscape. That reminds me of a
                        charming young lady I had once the pleasure to come across in company with
                        her friends on the top of Drachenfels. They were one and all outvying each
                        other in raptures about the Rhine, and Rolandseck, and the Siebengebirge,
                        and only my Hebe-eyed  eyed damsel said
                        never a word. So I asked what she thought of this celebrated scene. 'This is
                        nothing for ladies,' she said, pouting, and turning up the little white tip
                        of her nose. I was so charmed with this truly feminine answer that I left
                        Rhine and ruins to the others, and spent the rest of the day in learning how
                        much greater is the effect of dimples on the human heart than that of
                        castle-crowned hills, vine-covered slopes, rushing rivers, and all the rest
                        of it.
                    "But, dear me, there goes twelve o'clock! I should have thought it would have
                        got a little cooler by now. What you can be made of, Emanuel, I don't know:
                        to go on talking, talking, and never get thirsty in such heat as this is
                        simply abnormal; my earthy nature requires that I should now go and
                        replenish the beer-jug, and the lamp, I think, also wants seeing to."
                    After a few minutes Sontheim returned with fresh supplies, and after taking a
                        long, hearty draught he said—
                    "Go on! What had become of the offended beauty? Had she gone to offer up an
                        Aye Maria and pour forth her griefs into the Madonna's ear?"
                    "You will hear in good time, my friend," Emanuel answered. "At any rate I
                        thought of nothing but Antonella, yearning and yet dreading to meet her
                        again, as I expected to catch sight of her tall figure at every turn in the
                        road, behind every projecting rock or clump of flowering broom.
                    "While I was making up my mind to leave Capri on the morrow morning, as the
                        only safe course under the circumstances, I hoped, with delightful
                        inconsistency, that fate or chance would defeat my purpose by then  and there throwing Antonella in my path
                        again. And, strange to say, the more firmly I was resolved not to go and see
                        the girl the fiercer grew my longing to look, if only once more, on the dark
                        splendour of her eyes.
                    "Every now and then I started violently, and then rushed after some dimly
                        seen object, which in the mocking moonlight seemed to recall something of
                        her form and motion, and my lips involuntarily called out, 'Antonella,
                        Antonella!'
                    "Thus, before I knew how, I had completely lost my way in a labyrinth of
                        moonlit vineyards. Having not the faintest idea which way to turn, I threw
                        myself on the ground at last, resigned to lie there till some passerby in
                        the early morning should put me in the right road. Utterly tired out, I was
                        on the point of falling asleep, when a stir and rustle of leaves at a little
                        distance caught my attention. Looking about me drowsily I caught sight, not
                        without certain internal qualms, of the deformed little old friar, whose big
                        head and long white beard were strangely eerie in this moonshine.
                    "He did not appear to see or hear me approach, for he was muttering what
                        sounded like an incantation, as he plucked up by the roots an
                        insignificant-looking herb pearled with dew. After watching him for an
                        instant to no purpose, I made bold to interrupt his incantations by asking
                        him my way.
                    "On hearing himself thus unexpectedly addressed, the friar jerked his huge
                        head about, but instead of expressing surprise at seeing me there at such an
                        hour, peered furtively about him, and then said, 'And what have you done
                        with the maiden, Maëstro?'
                    
                    "I should have liked to have kicked the creature for the satanic leer with
                        which he accompanied his question; and, not wishing to own to her sudden
                        disappearance, said she had gone home to her mother's after he had left, and
                        that wandering about by myself I had lost my way in trying to get back to
                        the Osteria.
                    "'Our road lies in the same direction, in that case, Signor,' said the
                        Capuchin friar; 'for my cell stands on the height above the ruins of
                        Timberio, and I'll take you to where your path branches off from mine.'
                    "While we were jogging along through a maze of marble fragments, he told me a
                        gruesome story of a girl who had been similarly bitten by a tarantula in
                        these ruins. At least, he explained, the Capri folk had laid the blame of
                        her subsequent evil ways on this fact.
                    "I made little doubt that the crafty hermit had invented this tale by way of
                        a scarecrow to fright the bird from the too-alluring grain; and he might
                        have saved himself the pains, I thought. At any rate, I was very glad to be
                        rid of him when he parted from me, after impressing upon me that I could not
                        possibly miss the inn if only I walked in a straight line towards the light
                        which was discernible in front of me.
                    "While hurrying towards it, I debated with myself whether I should still go
                        to Ana-Capri to find out whether Antonella was in safety; but I shrank from
                        the consequences of such a step on recollecting, not without violent
                        agitation, to what a pass my solicitude had brought me.
                    "I was abruptly roused from my preoccupation by a low cry; and, on looking up
                        to see whence the sound had proceeded, I was shocked to find that, another
                             step forward, and I must infallibly
                        have tumbled down a narrow dark fissure, seemingly ending in the sea. I, and
                        not my violin, might thus have gone reeling to destruction like one of
                        Timberio's favourites. It was the cry that had saved me. Like a woman's
                        voice it was, but must have been the Aziola's; and I firmly believe that the
                        villainous hermit, inflamed with impotent jealousy, had wished to send me to
                        my destruction. I now retraced my steps with great caution, and, striking
                        into a side-path, regained my inn without further adventure.
                    "Too excited for sleep, I seized my instrument, and after a few crisp bars I
                        began trying over the tarantella which had come to me in so extraordinary a
                        fashion. As I was gradually striking into the weird trills recurring at
                        intervals throughout this tune, I suddenly caught sight of what looked like
                        a woman's twirling, beautifully outlined shadow thrown across the
                        window-curtain. This time there could be no doubt about it. My heart gave a
                        bound, as, flinging the half-closed window, which was on the ground-floor,
                        wide open, I leapt from the sill.
                    "Surely a woman's flitting shadow, seen on a wall, glided out of sight as I
                        did so! I rushed wildly in the direction in which it had disappeared, till I
                        found myself on the very verge of the dizzy rock called 'Salto di
                        Tiberio.'
                    "There I stood still and looked about me. No one was anywhere in sight; not a
                        sound broke the stillness save the fretting of the sea far below. A horror
                        seized me of this delusive shadow mocking and taunting me. I ran back to the
                        inn as fast as I had left it, and there 
                        flung myself on the bed, where I lay tossing about in uneasy slumbers till
                        the break of day.
                    "I then rose, put my few things together, and began debating with myself
                        whether I should bid Antonella good-bye before going. Passion pleaded it
                        would be acting like a heartless brute if I left without seeing for myself
                        what had become of her; prudence suggested that I might easily make
                        inquiries through my good-natured hostess, and that my object in leaving the
                        place would probably be defeated if I risked seeing her again.
                    "While still undecided what to do, I nevertheless mechanically walked on
                        towards the rock-hewn stairs of Ana-Capri. I had already mounted a
                        considerable number of steps when I saw Bice coming towards me with a basket
                        on her head. She made me a pretty curtsy, and offered me a spray of basil. I
                        began questioning her about Antonella with ill-concealed eagerness, and
                        heard, to my inexpressible relief, that she was at home with her mother, and
                        in the gayest of spirits.
                    "I took my decision on the instant. Giving Bice a few coins, which these
                        simple girls always accept thankfully for their flowers, I told her that
                        circumstances obliged me to leave Capri quite unexpectedly; would she
                        therefore bid Signora Mansi and Antonella good-bye for me, and give the
                        latter this trifle as a keepsake from me. For happening to have by me an
                        antique Roman cameo brooch, I gave it the girl, who looked quite taken
                        aback, and, waving a hasty good-bye, hurried desperately down to the shore
                        at Capri, so as to leave myself no time to alter my mind again."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    A HIT AT LAST.
                    WHEN I got back to Naples, I felt strangely out of place in the bustling,
                        noisy town. I seemed to come from another world, to have strayed into past
                        centuries in which things most wild, curious, and fantastic were received as
                        common and everyday matters. Entirely engrossed by my tarantella, which in a
                        measure seemed to connect me still with the beauteous creature that had been
                        its inspiration, I went back to my garret in the dilapidated old palace that
                        was let out in cheap lodgings. There I began noting down and elaborating the
                        score of the Apulian Dance such as it had fashioned itself anew in my brain.
                        For three weeks I never left my room, trying over ever fresh combinations of
                        the tune that seemed to possess rather than be composed by me; now playing,
                        now noting down, now adding a fresh bar, now playing over again with still
                        growing passion the music that as by enchantment still brought Antonella  before me in all her matchless grace of
                        form and motion. She was the inspiration of my theme! I felt all at once as
                        the deaf and dumb might feel when their tongue is loosened, and sweet speech
                        flows in on their inner sense with ineffable harmony. Sweet sounds,
                        ravishing melodies, haunted the air about me like heavenly messengers. I was
                        in a continual transport; I had at last found the fit organ for the spirit
                        that moved within me.
                    "Ah, such days do not often come to one! And if they did, they would soon
                        consume to ashes the flesh and blood that cannot withstand their fiery
                        ecstasy. But for many long years they will reverberate through a man's
                        inmost soul, and quicken all his best work—dare I say with immortality?
                    "In those days I took my food by snatches (such food as the man of all work
                        used to place once a day on the rickety table); I slept by snatches,
                        scarcely taking time to undress—indeed I was scarcely conscious of the needs
                        of the body. During that time I jotted down numbers of motives which I
                        worked out in later compositions.
                    "One day, when in the very fever of composition, I was not a little annoyed
                        and astonished by hearing a knock at my door, for I had scrupulously avoided
                        letting any one know of my return. The person who entered, puffing and
                        panting with the flight of steps he had mounted, was an utter stranger, and
                        I could hardly refrain from saluting him with an oath. I fear I glared with
                        anything but friendly eyes at the little, fat, self-important personage with
                        a hot, smirking face, and little dabs of eyes blinking perpetually, perhaps
                             to prevent one from finding out how
                        shrewd they were.
                    "Not at all abashed by my questionable welcome, the intruder looked calmly
                        all over the miserable room, with its litter of scored music, books, boots,
                        stray shirts, and slices of dry bread, rubbing his two pudgy hands with an
                        air of satisfaction at once puzzling and irritating; until, growing
                        impatient, I asked curtly to what I owed the honour of the gentleman's
                        visit.
                    "Instead of answering me at once (and looking, if anything, rather pleased at
                        my rudeness), he coolly took up the sheet of music I had flung down at his
                        entrance, and scrutinizing it with half-shut eyes, said inquiringly—
                    "'Ah, ah! a tarantella, I see! Of your own composing, perhaps? Curious!
                        because tarantellas happen to be my hobby. I have quite a collection of all
                        our national dances, and shall be happy to show them you some day. Will you
                        think me very impertinent if I ask you as a favour to let me hear a few bars
                        of it on the violin there?'
                    "So saying, he took out a gaudily painted snuff-box, and, on my refusing the
                        detestable stuff, helped himself liberally, with an air of being quite at
                        home most exasperating to me. Who on earth could he be? What the devil did
                        he want with me? Was he a creditor from Rome, perhaps, who had tracked me to
                        my den?
                    "'But, sir, I presume that the errand on which you came was hardly to ask me
                        to play you a tarantella! Perhaps you will excuse my curiosity,' I answered,
                        with covert irony, for I now began suspecting that the man had come to play
                        off some practical joke on me.
                    
                    "'Just so, just so,' said the stranger, still eyeing me with imperturbable
                        good-humour; 'by your leave I will sit down, for your domicile is just a
                        little high up—just a little, for legs not quite so young as they were once.
                        I fear you may think that I have been taking too great a liberty, my dear
                        young man. I may as well tell you at once'—taking out a large card and
                        handing it to me—'that I am Antonino Occhio d'Argento, the secretary of the
                        Musical Society at Naples.'
                    "Why couldn't the fool say so at once, I thought, as I bowed with
                        considerably more politeness, wondering what was coming next.
                    "'Well, I must tell you my little story connectedly. It was on Thursday, I
                        think, that Mercato, the violoncellist, and myself, were going along the
                        quay of Santa Lucia, when my attention was arrested by hearing some
                        fishermen singing a tarantella I did not remember ever having heard, and
                        which struck me by its originality and the fire of its movements. Now, you
                        must know, my dear young man, that I am as keen after a tune of this kind as
                        a greyhound after a hare. So I went up to one of the men and asked what he
                        was singing there. "A tarantella ecco, Signor!" "Yes, fool, I know that well
                        enough; but whose tarantella is it? Where did you get hold of it? This is
                        not one of our old popular tunes!" "Ah, that I can't say," the idiot
                        answered, grinning from ear to ear. "But at least you can tell me how you
                        came by it," I persisted. "You did not invent it yourself, did you now, my
                        friend?"
                    "'The fellow scratched his head, and looked down at his bare toes as if they
                        might refresh his memory. At last, when I must have waited several minutes,
                        he cried  gleefully: "I have it, Signor!
                        Some of us, maybe a week ago, rowed a party of milordi Inglese to Capri, and
                        on the Marina, by our Lady, the fishermen were all humming this tune; and
                        when we went into the town, why there were all the pretty Capri girls
                        singing it at their work; and when we came to the marketplace, why if two
                        men were not playing it on the guitar and mandolin to the blind soldiers
                        sitting on the benches in the sunshine. So the tune got hold of us and stuck
                        by us since that day, most likely, Signor."
                    "'I will say for our people, my dear young man, that they are the most
                        musical nation in the world. They have an unerring ear for what's got real
                        melody, and are often better judges than we connoisseurs. And the way
                        they'll catch up a new tune one from another is astonishing; they'll do it
                        as easily as a child catches the measles!'
                    "'Well, my dear young friend, now we come to my next point, for on the
                        following day, when I was taking my cup of coffee as usual in front of the
                        Hotel of the Tre Couronne, and jotting down a few memoranda concerning our
                        next concert, my attention was caught by some one close behind now
                        whistling, now singing, this identical tarantella that I had been so taken
                        with on the previous day. This person seemed to know it more intimately,
                        however, and hummed a greater number of variations.
                    "'On shifting my position a little, I saw two young men playing dominoes at
                        the next table. The one who was whistling was a very hairy young man, with a
                        keen, lively face, and when he stopped to puff away at his cigarette, I did
                        not scruple to ask him if he would have 
                        the goodness to tell me whose the air was I had just heard him sing. "Corpo
                        di Bacco," he said, flinging the end of his cigar away; "I pray every day
                        that whosesoever it is may go to the devil with all speed." "Why so?" I
                        said; "if it is not impertinent to ask." "Why so?" he cried, jumping up and
                        coming to my side. "Why so? Because I have the misfortune of occupying the
                        room next to his, whoever he may be; because he is fairly driving me out of
                        my senses with his maddening music! Because he gives me no peace by day or
                        night; because in bed, at meals, at my easel, I am pursued, haunted,
                        persecuted, assailed, bewitched by that demoniacal tune. By Jove! I expect
                        to see myself in a lunatic asylum ere long, for I've got it regularly on the
                        brain; and in my own despite I am forced to sing that devil's tarantella
                        myself now." "But," I asked; laughing at the man's whimsical manner, "why
                        need you listen to it if you hate it so?" "Why?" he cried, "why? Do you
                        think if I were not a poor soul of a painter, whom his landlord won't suffer
                        to budge before he has paid his rent, I would have stayed for a moment in
                        that purgatory of incessant sound." "But tell me who is this indefatigable
                        musician," I said at last, eagerly. "Who, indeed!" echoed the stranger, in a
                        mysterious whisper. "No man hath ever seen him with his bodily eyes, I
                        believe; and I misdoubt his corporeality for my own part. Flesh could never
                        stand it! There is some secret, some black secret, behind it all, I'll be
                        sworn." "Well, I'll fathom it," was my answer, "if you give me his or your
                        address, as you are neighbours. A man who composes a tarantella that haunts
                        one like that  a genius, whatever else he
                        may be into the bargain."
                    "'So I got the address, and took the liberty of coming straight here, you
                        see; and I hope you will oblige me by playing this tarantella which I have
                        taken so much trouble to unearth, and which I presume, my dear young friend,
                        to be your own.'
                    "Not without a beating heart had I listened to Occhio d'Argento's diffuse
                        narrative. That first spontaneous response of a phlegmatic or apathetic
                        outside world to the call within one, is a never-to-be-forgotten sensation.
                        Without further preamble I took my violin and played the piece, in its
                        complete form as now noted down by me.
                    "While I was playing the little fat secretary jumped up from his chair, and
                        whistling snatches of the tune, he repeatedly danced and capered across the
                        room, flinging up his hands, snapping his fingers, and puffing and
                        screaming, till he wabbled all over with the exertion. At last, wiping his
                        glistening face, he sank into a chair, panting, 'Eh! Bravo, bravissimo! Che
                        bella, che divina tarantella!'
                    "When I had done, Occhio d'Argento rushed up to me, and enclosing me within
                        the circumference of his arms, almost stifled me with bear-like hugs, as
                        imprinting moist kisses on both my cheeks he shouted, 'Splendid!
                        Magnificent! A tarantella to rouse the dead on doomsday with!'
                    "To cut the matter short, he engaged me there and then to play at a concert
                        that was to be given the ensuing week by the Musical Society of Naples.
                    "At that concert I won my first laurels. I was  enthusiastically encored. I scarcely met with
                        marks of more universal admiration than those which now burst upon me when
                        at the height of my celebrity. All Naples caught up the melody, and I heard
                        snatches of it sung at the corner of every street.
                    "I had made a hit at last, and fortune began holding out some of her dazzling
                        rewards to me."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    LOST.
                    "HAD I forgotten Antonella by this time? Had the excitement of my first
                        success banished her image? On the contrary, much as I had striven I could
                        not get the witch out of my head. The rebound from despondency to brightest
                        hope seemed to have fanned the fire of my passion into new intensity. Her
                        eyes haunted me at all hours of the day, in every dream of the night.
                    "One night, when the time of my departure for Rome had been definitively
                        settled for the day after the morrow, as I had been engaged for a series of
                        concerts there, I awoke with such a craving to look once more on Antonella
                        that I felt sick and fevered with my longing.
                    "'Confound all prudence,' I cried, 'I can stand this no longer; I must see
                        her once, only once more, come of it what will!' and jumping out of bed, I
                        dressed,  packed, and settled my few
                        affairs so far, to shorten the time and leave my hands free.
                    "The day would never dawn, seemingly; yet dawn at last it did, to my relief,
                        and as soon as there was the smallest chance of finding a boatman astir I
                        hurried to the beach.
                    "How quiet were the streets as yet, usually so noisy and crowded; nothing
                        stirring abroad but the goatherds and their flocks. Here and there they
                        stopped before the houses, and were milked into the cans which the sleepy
                        maid-servants brought to the door. The sight was suggestive. I went up to
                        one man and begged him to let me have a draught of milk, after which,
                        feeling much refreshed, I went on my way.
                    "A good many fishermen were already on the beach, so that I had no difficulty
                        in getting a boat. The sky wore a subdued: aspect; out at sea rose Capri,
                        and my heart beat fast as I looked at its mystic outline, with its deep and
                        solemn steel colour cut clearly against the light grey sky. In my excitement
                        I began imagining that the melancholy look of the island was a presage of
                        evil to the girl who dwelt there.
                    "I had plenty of time to indulge my fancies, for it was ten o'clock when at
                        last we reached the island. I hurried on through Capri, scarcely looking to
                        right or left, though people saluted me here and there.
                    "I soon reached the rocky stairs leading to Ana-Capri, and climbed the five
                        hundred and sixty steps more quickly than I should have thought possible.
                        'This very day I shall see her again, face to face'—beyond that I could
                        think of nothing; sufficient for the day was the joy thereof. On reaching
                        the platform of  the mountain at last, I
                        was forced to stand still for a moment to allay the beating of my heart; for
                        after all I must not betray my feelings to the whole village if I wished
                        just to see her once more—that once more being the utmost I could hope for,
                        or expect, at the time.
                    "On entering the quiet, idyllic little place again, full of women's song and
                        rattling looms, I felt an inordinate wish to call out loud, 'Antonella,
                        Antonella!' which no doubt would have gathered all the women and girls of
                        the mountain-town around me. But I had still sufficient sense to repress my
                        wish. Instead of rushing on as I had done, I now dawdled, less perhaps
                        through prudent simulation of indifference, than from the inexplicable
                        feeling that impels one to defer the goal when it seems in sight.
                    "Slowly as I walked, however, I could not be for ever on the way, and so, as
                        if unawares, found myself with my head swimming round, in front of the
                        little white house. There was no sign of any one stirring about the place,
                        so I walked in through the open door. In the same dark chamber, kneeling
                        before the same dimly-lit shrine, Antonella's mother was absorbed in prayer,
                        as when I had, before come upon her unexpectedly.
                    "On my cheerfully calling her by name with a greeting she started violently,
                        and then rose; or rather tottered to her feet. As she came forward to
                        welcome me, I noticed that she looked aged by many years, and her eyes were
                        red and swollen with weeping. She tried to say something about the pleasure
                        of seeing me, but broke down in the middle, and the tears began rolling down
                        her withered cheeks instead.
                    
                    "'What is it?' I cried, seizing her hand with a sudden sickening feeling.
                        'Good God, what has happened—tell me, quick, quick!'
                    "The unhappy woman seemed bewildered by my vehemence, in spite of her grief,
                        and looked almost blankly at me; so I had impatiently to repeat my query,
                        adding—'Where is your daughter? Is it well with her?' with a trembling in my
                        voice that I could not control.
                    "Signora Mansi, who had by this time recovered a little composure, repeated
                        my words in a stifled, questioning manner, absently passing one hand over
                        another—'Is it well with her! Ah, is it not well with my poor child!'
                    "The sad resignation in her tone, her inexplicable manner, drove me almost
                        frantic. All sorts of misfortune that could possibly have happened to
                        Antonella since I had left darted through my brain at once, with an agony of
                        fear and self-reproach. I tingled all over with some dread anticipation, and
                        with futile rage I upbraided myself for I scarce knew what.
                    "The poor woman, without much heeding me, went on muttering—more to the image
                        of the Virgin and Child than addressing me—'Yes, the dear Madonna has taken
                        five of them, five that I nursed and suckled at the breast—three at sea, one
                        with the fever, and the smallest of all in the cradle; and now the last, she
                        wants the last! O light of my life, why has thou left me lonely in my old
                        age?'
                    "I could bear this suspense no longer. In my wild excitement I fear I grasped
                        her hand roughly enough, as I asked harshly, 'Why do you torture me thus?
                             Tell me the worst, if worse there is!
                        What has become of her? Speak, speak, I entreat you!'
                    "Signora Mansi, thus urgently recalled to the fact of my presence, which she
                        had quite forgotten I believe, fixed her eyes all at once with piercing
                        intentness on mine as though she would read my very soul; and then dropping
                        into a chair and covering her face with her hands, she sobbed—'Sanctimissa
                        Madre! Is it possible! Ah, had my unhappy child but known, perchance she
                        would not have gone—but I am blaspheming in my grief.'
                    "'Gone where, where?' I cried, in my impatience striding up and down the
                        narrow room, and striking my hand against the lintel of the door; 'for the
                        hundredth time I ask you—where is she? 'But in my despair of getting any
                        answer, I now flung open the hack door that looked on the terraces of the
                        pillared and vine-trellised garden, and called at the top of my
                        voice—'Antonella! Antonella!'
                    "At the sound of her daughter's name, the poor mother uttered a piteous moan,
                        and coming towards me, flung her arms round my neck and sobbed—'Too late;
                        she cannot hear, oh she cannot hear you now!' Then letting me go again, and
                        laying her hand on my arm, she said with an inflection that chilled me: 'You
                        will never see her again, my poor young man; she has gone for ever, left me
                        for ever, to enter the Convent St. Maria del Soccorsa at Naples, and take
                        the vows there.'
                    "I gave a cry, such a cry as a wild beast may utter, and sank down as though
                        somebody had given me a blow on the head; but in an instant I was up again,
                             and seizing the scared, sobbing woman
                        by the shoulders, I hissed in her ear, 'I will get at her! I will see her
                        again, though all the bolts and bars of the church should enclose her!'
                    "Frightened at the blasphemy of my language, the poor mother sank on her
                        knees again and muttered an Ave, interspersed with sobs and tears; while I,
                        grasping my head with my hands, was trying to realize the position and
                        collect my thoughts. But I could not think! I was all on fire with thwarted
                        longing, for in these latter hours the strength of my passion had grown in
                        proportion to the insuperable obstacles against which it lashed itself
                        almost into madness.
                    "All at once I felt my hands softly kissed, and stroked and fondled.
                        Antonella's mother was standing before me, and in a voice as if she were
                        speaking to a little child, she said, 'Be comforted, be comforted, my son.
                        Jesu hath lived, and hath died for us, and should we not give up our
                        children if it be God's will?'
                    "For a moment the pathos of that sorrowing mother's voice made me forget my
                        own grief and rage; her thin face, to which a great sorrow lent its dignity,
                        might have been that of a Mater Dolorosa itself. I could only look at, not
                        answer her, as with an infinitely touching gesture she threw out her empty
                        hands and cried: 'Ah, but the Madonna may be wroth with me if I am too
                        loth—she who gave her own bambino for us sinners. And yet she was the last
                        that was left—the last; they were all taken from me, all the little ones to
                        whom I had given suck, all the pretty ones that I dandled on my arms, all
                        the babes that I sang to sleep, singing, "Nonna, Nonna, my sweet son, oh,
                        Nonna!" She was the  last, the joy of my
                        old eyes: for one the Holy Madonna took to herself out of the cradle, the
                        little Lilla made of violets and jasmine buds; and one died of the fever;
                        and three went down at sea; and she was all that was left—my last little
                        one, my child, the warmth of my old age, and she has gone from me too.
                        Madonna—but I must not murmur; it is God's will, and I shall follow soon,
                        soon now.' Here she sat down on a low stool, with one hand on each knee, and
                        said ever so gently, looking up into my face: 'Tolla, my Tolla, the most
                        beautiful child of the islands, they said! I seem to see her no higher than
                        that'—and she held out her hand—'coming up the garden walk there. Ah, you
                        loved her too, my son—but it's all for the best, no doubt,' and here she
                        covered her face with her hands and wept.
                    "Had I been less preoccupied with my selfish passion, I must have been
                        touched even to tears by the depth of this woman's uncomplaining sorrow; and
                        more, I must have been struck by the heartlessness of the girl who could
                        forsake this widowed mother and afflict her with the living entombment of
                        her last remaining child. But there was no room for such thoughts in me
                        then.
                    "Feeling as though every moment might for ever seal Antonella's fate, I
                        started up, pressed her mother's hands hard in my own, and cried, 'You must,
                        you shall see your Tolla again!' then before she could reply or remonstrate,
                        I had rushed out of the house."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXI.
                    FOUND.
                    "A THOUSAND mad schemes for liberating Antonella from the living grave in
                        which she was going to bury herself crossed my mind on my way back to
                        Naples. It was almost evening when at last I again leaped ashore.
                    "What was I to do? Now for the first time I began fully to realize what a
                        difficult, nay, impossible undertaking it would be, in those days of police
                        and passports, to penetrate the walls of a convent and make off with nun or
                        novice.
                    "Whilst I was meditating a reconnaissance of the situation of the convent,
                        some one suddenly slapped me on the shoulder and called out in cheery tones:
                        'Why, by all that's good, it's you in the body at last! Where have you been
                        delving, old mole? I have been hunting for you all over Naples in vain,
                        burning as I was to congratulate you on your success! We are all so proud!
                        We always sniffed the demon in  you, of
                        course!—Why, confound it, what's up now? you look more moody than ever, and
                        as if you wished me at Jericho! Are you composing a sonata to
                        "Melencolia?"'
                    "In truth, though I really liked Raoul immensely, and knew him for a good
                        fellow, I was thoroughly put out at meeting him at this inopportune moment.
                        I stammered some lame reply, and any one but he would have seen that there
                        was something up, and left me to my own devices. Not so Raoul. With
                        garrulous pleasantry he linked his arm within mine and dragged me along with
                        him, pouring the while into my unwilling ears a string of congratulations,
                        news of Roman friends, the last new scandal about Cardinal F., and only
                        interrupting himself to stare hard after every pretty girl that passed.
                        Luckily I was not called upon to reply, as certainly I did not listen.
                    "In this manner, scarcely conscious where I was going, we had proceeded some
                        little way along the quay of Santa Lucia, which at this hour was swarming
                        with life and motion like a very ant-hill. My friend suddenly left my side
                        as abruptly as he had come upon me, but I was hardly aware of it, and was
                        leaning, lost in thought, over the parapet of the quay. I believe it must
                        have been a gloriously beautiful evening. Absently I was looking at the bay,
                        at the reflected lights that dyed the sea as with rose-bloom, not
                        consciously noticing anything, only in my mind's eye conjuring up a gloomy
                        prison-like pile in which a captive girl would beat out her life as a bird
                        does against the bars of its cage.
                    "I was just starting off I scarcely knew whither,  when Raoul, hopping and humming, and rolling a
                        cigarette between his fingers and thumb, came excitedly back to my side, and
                        gave me a shake, saying: 'Wake up, Emanuel, and don't stop there like one of
                        the wooden posts! What has come over you again? Do look at those two ragged
                        girls dancing there with castanets to the sound of that blind old man's
                        mandolin.'
                    "Yes, it was my own tarantella that I heard for the thousandth time! I was
                        getting quite sick and tired of it by this. As usual in Naples, all sorts of
                        people gradually joined in the dance. Well-dressed and handsome maidens,
                        ragged girls, nursemaids—who calmly deposited their charges in other women's
                        arms—were capering away to my friend's intense enjoyment. For my own part, I
                        was just starting off in an opposite direction when Raoul, plucking me by
                        the sleeve, exclaimed excitedly: 'Superb! magnificent! I never saw such a
                        walk, such a figure, such an action of the arms and hands! No Greek statue
                        ever showed nobler proportions, more exquisitely moulded limbs! Why she is
                        actually going to dance! What a godsend!' At those rapid exclamations, more
                        vehement than usual, I could do no less than stop and turn round again, not
                        so much from curiosity as to please Raoul.
                    "But, good God, the shock it gave me! I gasped out some incoherent
                        exclamation, and almost staggered against the wall in my surprise. Was it
                        Antonella—Antonella in the flesh? Antonella not shut up in cold, dark,
                        convent walls, but dancing my tarantella under the sweet sky of Naples, in
                        all the supremacy of her matchless grace!
                    "Rooted to the spot I stood and stared at her; and  all the time Raoul kept up a running commentary
                        of words, and jerked out such broken sentences as—'Isn't she glorious? What
                        modulated grace in all her motions! This girl ought to do nothing but dance!
                        She is rhythm embodied in flesh! She has actually inspired that old man, for
                        his instrument squeaks less than heretofore; and all the other dancers have
                        stopped still to look at her!
                    "'There, what a theme for you to work out, Emanuel! What a model for me to
                        paint from. She must be got at any cost, at any cost!' and he was darting
                        off again, when for all answer I turned sharp upon him, and clutching hold
                        of his arm till he winced again, said between my teeth: 'Don't joke about
                        her! She's the girl I'm madly in love with! If you only knew the danger
                        she's in at this very moment! Ah! she must be out of her senses, I fear.
                        Those soldiers there looking on, if they guessed who she was, would clap her
                        in prison. But we must save her—you must help me to save her, Raoul.'
                    "Raoul, at first quite dumbfoundered, soon regained his natural vivacity, and
                        rubbing his arm exclaimed—'Heavens! have you poisoned the Santo Padre
                        between you? I'll help you; but first tell us all about it! Now I observe
                        her more closely she looks as though the dagger in her hair wasn't merely
                        for ornament.'
                    "For all answer I beckoned him to follow me, and noiselessly strode up to
                        where Antonella was by this time dancing and twirling, the centre of an
                        enraptured crowd. Elbowing my way through it, I placed myself in such manner
                        that my eyes were fully fixed on hers. Antonella for one instant stared at
                        me wildly; then, as  though under the
                        influence of a potent spell, she became suddenly motionless as a statue. At
                        an almost imperceptible sign from me she plunged into the crowd, which
                        thereupon immediately dispersed, and along with it we three slipped away
                        unperceived in the sudden darkening of the Italian twilight."
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XXII.
                    FLIGHT.
                    "KEEPING tight hold of Antonella's hand, I talked in a low voice to Raoul as
                        we hurried through the noisy by-streets of Naples, till we came to a
                        stand-still in front of a good-sized milliner's shop.
                    "The Frenchman whispering, 'Then we will meet as agreed upon, at the Porta
                        Capuana at nine precisely,' darted off round the corner, while the girl and
                        I entered the premises.
                    "Antonella fell back a step, as going to the counter I said to the
                        shop-woman, 'Madam, I want to know whether you can oblige us immediately
                        with every requisite of an English lady's travelling costume—gown, scarf,
                        bonnet, &c.?'
                    "Seeing the dubious, rather suspicious expression on the woman's face, I
                        hastened to add, 'I'll pay you handsomely for the order, my good woman;' and
                        knowing the weakness of the sex for anything in the shape of a love-affair,
                        added, lowering my voice to a 
                        confidential tone, 'You will be helping two lovers in distress.'
                    "The woman's face quite brightened at this, and looking slyly round at my
                        companion who had shrunk behind me, said, 'Bé, bé, you want a regular lady's
                        dress, do you?' and she disappeared into a back room, apparently to consult
                        with some invisible adviser as to what she had in stock:
                    "While she was gone Antonella came close up to me, whispering, not without
                        awe: 'Am I to have a dress to sweep the ground, like a real lady?'
                    "Before I could answer her naive query the shop-woman returned with various
                        articles of attire slung across her arm.
                    "'I have no ready-made dress whatever to fit your lady,' she said, looking
                        admiringly at Antonella's tall, beautifully-made figure. 'All I can offer as
                        a makeshift is this black silk skirt made to order for a damigella Inglese; the bodice would not fit
                        you, but then you can keep on your own under this black silk mantle. Here's
                        also a real shawl Inglese for travelling, if you would
                        like it. But will Madam step this way, and try on what we have got?'
                    "So Antonella departed with the milliner, and after what seemed to my
                        impatience an incredibly long time, reappeared in sweeping garments, a
                        transformed character. She seemed mightily pleased with the result, only the
                        poke bonnet did not meet with her approval. In spite of the peril of her
                        situation, she actually urged on the shopkeeper to send to a neighbouring
                        establishment for some other specimens, as she seemed childishly desirous of
                        getting one as like as  possible to a
                        certain Miladi who had fired her imagination at Capri
                        with a leghorn of portentous dimensions.
                    "Almost in despair I looked on as Antonella tried on bonnet after bonnet, by
                        turns looking at the glass and me; and finally she would have chosen the
                        largest and most conspicuous, but that, half beside myself, I peremptorily
                        bade her take the one I selected for her. Then I hastily threw down the sum
                        agreed upon, in my haste giving the woman, I believe, a napoleon too much.
                        She obsequiously wished us good luck, as I hurried off with Antonella on my
                        arm, who kept tripping over her unwonted length of skirt, which in our haste
                        had been merely slipped over her other things.
                    "'What have you been about, to make you so much behind the time?' cried
                        Raoul, rushing forward to meet us on our reaching the appointed spot; 'but
                        he stopped in astonishment as though he hardly knew my companion again, and
                        with a respectful obeisance said, 'The carriage has been waiting these
                        twenty minutes.'
                    "'Oh, it was all Antonella's bonnet,' said I, as, lifting her into the
                        carriage, we jumped in after her, and the postilion cracking his whip, we
                        rattled along the road to Rome.
                    "'We might all be in peril of finding ourselves at the Castle of St. Angelo,
                        were it not for my foresight,' said Raoul, in French, for fear of
                        frightening Antonella, and triumphantly waving a passport in my face. 'Mind,
                        at the next Dogana you are Captain Jones and his spouse—that worthy
                        Britannic officer having lent it to me in his horror of papacy. What do you
                        say to that for an idea? but in repayment I stipulate that none but I shall
                        paint her!'
                    
                    "While Raoul thus rattled on, I tried to make Antonella as comfortable as I
                        could for the long night-journey, partly with the plaid shawl, and partly
                        with some of the things that Raoul had been careful to fetch for me from my
                        lodging.
                    "I think she began now first to realize her strange position, for the whirl
                        and excitement of the last few hours had scarcely admitted of
                        reflection.
                    "She sat very much back in her corner of the carriage, and though by the
                        uncertain light of the lamp the expression of her face escaped me, I could
                        see the nervous clasping and unclasping of her hands, while her irregular
                        breathing, broken now and then by a spasmodic sigh, filled me with concern.
                        But I thought it better to leave her to herself a little, partly that she
                        might have time to calm herself, and partly that a thousand conflicting
                        considerations were jostling themselves in my brain.
                    "Certainly it was a startling predicament to be in! Here was I, almost
                        against my will, carrying off the daughter of poor but honest people, whose
                        chief pride consisted in their good name. Should I bring shame and dishonour
                        on the grey hairs of that sorrowful mother, whose grief was as yet untainted
                        by disgrace? And yet such a marriage—to a man on the threshold of his
                        career—might be ruinous in its consequences!
                    "Raoul here raising his voice, roused me from my preoccupation by remarking
                        again in French: 'I don't know whether you are aware, my friend, that I am
                        positively dying of curiosity! Here have I done everything a mortal can to
                        help you elope with the most paintable girl in Italy, and yet you haven't
                        deigned to  give me a word of explanation
                        as to who she is, what mischief she's been up to, or what you are to do with
                        her! If I'm to be of any further use, it would seem at least expedient to
                        give me some hints concerning the latter, even though, as to the former, I
                        may be willing to believe her one of the sirens themselves that you have
                        netted off the coast of Capri.'
                    "I felt the justice of this interpellation. Antonella had been so quiet that
                        I might have thought her asleep for some time, but for the feeble light that
                        showed me her eyes gazing fixedly in front of her. I put my hand gently on
                        her arm, and said: 'Antonella, this is Raoul, my dearest friend, almost my
                        brother; without him we should not now be escaping as we are—he ought to
                        know all. I went back to Capri to see you. I saw your poor mother this
                        morning. Was it indeed only this morning—it seems ever so long ago!' I
                        exclaimed, in amazement. 'Well, I saw your mother, who told me, weeping, you
                        had gone into a convent.'
                    "Here Antonella drooped her head lower, and gave, I thought, a slight sort of
                        shiver, but it was too dark to notice more.
                    "'What on earth made you think of turning nun?' I asked, not without a smile;
                        for now that the danger seemed receding, the idea of my bacchantic dancer
                        transformed into a saint was too incongruous. She drew her arm away at my
                        question; she seemed to shrink more within herself.
                    "While I was speaking to Antonella, my friend, with the instincts of a
                        gentleman, had let down the sash and was leaning out of the window, humming
                        softly to himself the while.
                    
                    "All this time we had been bumping and tearing along at the rate of seven
                        miles an hour, the landscape, with its hills, plains, and trees, shifting
                        past us, as we saw it revealed by snatches when the moon, floating out of
                        the grey, misty clouds, shone out triumphantly at intervals. Now, however,
                        the scarecrow Neapolitan post-horses, reeking and panting with their
                        exertions, came to a dead stop in front of a forlorn-looking post-house. Our
                        postilion jumped from his saddle, and after several kicks, knocks, and
                        Neapolitan oaths, on his part, at the closed door of the post-house, a surly
                        man with a lantern came stumbling down the steps, two savage,
                        starved-looking dogs barking furiously at his heels. Three horses, with a
                        man leading the foremost, came slowly clattering down a steep incline from
                        their stable, and the three men now began an apparently interminable process
                        of unharnessing the old and harnessing the fresh horses, which consisted
                        chiefly of a succession of loud slaps, kicks, and objurgations.
                    "Raoul, who heard my muttered exclamations of impatience, shouted 'God damn!'
                        every now and then to keep up my character of English captain among the men;
                        and, as before, I promised the postilion double drink-money, and went on
                        shouting, 'Avanti, Avanti!' to hasten
                        their movements generally.
                    "At last the new horses were put in harness, the new postilion leaped into
                        his saddle, and with a great deal of jolting and creaking, and swearing at
                        the horses, we got under weigh, and began rolling along the grey, dusty
                        high-road again.
                    "All this time Antonella, who had drawn her green gauze veil over her face,
                        sat perfectly still in her corner.  I
                        could not help thinking of a child that had broken something or done
                        something wrong. It was difficult to surmise what was passing in her mind,
                        torn as she was from her accustomed surroundings, and whirled thus along to
                        an unknown destiny. Indeed I felt for her, and should have probably felt
                        more, were it not that I was in such constant apprehension of the gendarmes overtaking us. I knew very well that
                        I had nothing to fear for myself, but the thought of her being dragged back
                        to the convent was too terrible. Rather than that, it seemed to me that I
                        ought to kill her and myself too.
                    "When once we were fairly started on the road, I again turned to Antonella,
                        and said very gently, 'I would not for the world trouble you with questions
                        on a subject that may be distressing to you; but in case of pursuit—if, as I
                        suppose, you have indeed escaped from a convent——'
                    "A look of mingled fear and triumph flashed from her eyes in her dark corner,
                        where the dim reflections from the moonlight had become more perceptible to
                        me, as she exclaimed excitedly: 'I did run away from it! I will tell you
                        everything.' But then her courage seemed to fail her again, and she said, in
                        a piteous, awe-stricken whisper, 'I have been very, very wicked! The Madonna
                        must be very angry with me!'
                    "Had it not been for Raoul, who had thrown himself back in a listening
                        attitude, I must have strained her to my heart, and soothed with kisses the
                        distress of this bewitching sinner. But as it was I contented myself with
                        taking her hand in mine and passionately pressing it, as I said—
                    
                    "'Well, confess yourself to me, Antonella, and let me see if I cannot give
                        you absolution. First of all, what made you think of going into a
                        nunnery?'
                    "She withdrew her hand abruptly, and putting it up to her brow as though she
                        were trying to recollect, said, after a moment's pause, in an absent manner,
                        'I don't know! I don't know!' (Fool that I had been to ask! At that instant
                        the whole truth flashed upon me. For love of me this magnificent creature
                        had been going to renounce all the joys of life. I forgot where I had found
                        her. The discovery of her love for me swept every other consideration from
                        my mind, and then and there I resolved on marrying her, come of it what
                        would.)
                    "'I won't ask you any more questions, my—my——' I stopped myself abruptly,
                        remembering my friend's presence. 'You shall tell me everything in your own
                        way; and if you will only confide in me, all will come right in the end,
                        Antonella!'
                    "'Ah, Maestro!' she said, with sudden impetuosity, 'you have saved me once
                        from the tarantula's poison: will you save me now again from the narrow cell
                        and the nun's punishment? But this is how it happened. Do you remember,
                        Maëstro, that evening on L'unghia Marina, when I left you?'
                    "'When you left me,' I cried, 'for the sheer pleasure of tormenting me, I
                        suppose, you wicked witch!'
                    "Antonella for the first time broke into a glad, musical laugh, which at once
                        gained the laughter-loving Raoul's heart, and which I could not help joining
                        too, as, shaking my finger at her, I said, 'Yes, you left me in the flesh to
                        drive me half crazy with your shadow, I believe.'
                    
                    "Antonella fetched rather a long breath as she answered, ''Twas I you saw,
                        Maëstro. The tarantella had got into my head again!'
                    "'How strange!' muttered Raoul interrogatively, in French. 'What does she
                        mean? Is she a little mad, eh?'
                    "'It is strange, indeed,' I replied, 'but I will tell you all about it
                        another time;' and turning to the girl, 'But why did you fly from me then in
                        that wild way? Could I not have helped you as I had done before?'
                    "But she again said in an impatient, almost angry, tone, 'I don't know! I
                        don't know!' then she hurried on with great volubility—
                    "'The next day the hermit came to my mother, and was talking to her in
                        whispers, during which their eyes were frequently turned on me, and I could
                        hear him repeating the word "Caverna," and that "the devil caught such
                        maidens," and "let her dedicate herself to———." And my mother kept weeping
                        till I grew wroth with them both. Upon which in came Bice with your brooch;
                        and I don't know how, by and by I felt the strange fit, of which you had
                        cured me, returning, and I screamed out, and remember nothing more. Then the
                        neighbours were around me, saying to my mother. "What will you do with her?
                        The musician is gone now, who might have helped her. The holy man is right,
                        let her take the veil."
                    "While I heard what they were saying, I could not open my eyes nor speak to
                        them, and a great horror came over me, for I could neither scream nor make
                        any sign. So I vowed myself to the Madonna's service if I got healed; and
                        then I sat straight up in my bed and cried, "I am ready. I will go!"
                    
                    "'My mother seized me in her arms and cried over me; but I did not seem to
                        feel anything—I only remembered my vow.
                    "'The hermit, whom I had always feared, said: "There is no time like the
                        present. Return thanks to the blessed Mary. Let her go; I charge myself with
                        her."
                    "'So the friar presently took me to Naples; and oh, I did like to see the
                        streets so full of people. But when he took me through the gate of the
                        Convent of St. Maria del Soccorsa, with the gloomy walls around, and
                        introduced me to the abbess, I was frightened, and began to repent of my
                        vow. In a few days the friar returned to confess me, as he had arranged with
                        the abbess, and then in a strange way he began asking whether——'
                    "She stopped abruptly with quivering lips, and coloured, just as if in the
                        excitement of her narration she had forgotten to whom she was talking, and
                        had been suddenly recalled to it by what she was going to say.
                    "'He asked you what, Antonella?' I said angrily, much regretting that I had
                        not thrashed the wretch to within an inch of his life when I had him in my
                        power.
                    "'Oh, nothing, nothing, Maëstro,' she said in a frightened voice; 'what
                        passes in confession, you know, is a great crime to repeat.' And then she
                        continued very quickly, as though fearing further interrogation on my part,
                        'Thus I was a novice, and there was a great deal of praying early and late,
                        and much weary work to do; and it was dreary between the high, dark walls,
                        and only once I could escape to the bell-tower and get a peep at the merry
                        streets. And then, oh! it was very  wicked
                        of me,' she sobbed, covering her face with her hands, 'I got to hate the
                        abbess, and the sisters, and most of all the friar who had brought me to
                        this, for I knew I must now go to hell for hating my vow to the Virgin.'
                    "'Poverina,' muttered Raoul, sympathetically.
                    "'No, no, no, Antonella!' cried I, pressing her hand, 'you did quite right in
                        hating the friar: it was your good angel that bade you fly from that
                        miserable little fiend—you will think so too, when I tell you that he did
                        his best to put an end to me!'
                    "'Oh, Maëstro!' she exclaimed, instinctively seizing hold of my arm, but
                        letting it go again with a troubled air.
                    "I then explained to her and Raoul how I had nearly—thanks to the
                        friar—fallen down a precipice, but for an owlet's cry.
                    "To my astonishment Antonella began laughing immoderately at this, and only
                        after gradually quieting down could she at last explain that she herself had
                        been the owl, having however conjectured in a highly flattering way to
                        myself that it was Falernian wine which had nearly been the death of me.
                    "Well, to cut a long story short, the beautiful Antonella found conventual
                        discipline most distasteful to her; indeed I much suspected that the
                        deformed friar had given her a further strong cause of offence. At any rate
                        she fell into a terrible melancholy, which again ended in her going off into
                        one of those curious trances having all the similitude of death. She
                        remained so long, however, in this particular fit, owing perhaps to the
                        entire absence of dance music in that 
                        holy community, that she was really supposed to be dead.
                    "She actually woke up one night in a damp, dark vault, stretched on a bier
                        between four lighted candles, and two snoring, snuffy old nuns.
                    "No doubt the poor girl was horrified, but her daring did not forsake her,
                        and she there and then made up her mind to escape at all risks. So the
                        beautiful creature, sliding down from the board, actually marched in her
                        shroud, barefooted, through the chill corridors of the crypt. Once above
                        ground, she easily found her way to the room where her contadina's dress had
                        been deposited. This she deliberately flung over the wall, and then with
                        equal celerity she proceeded to the porter's room, where she began to unhook
                        the key hanging above his pallet. In spite of her great precaution, however,
                        he opened his eyes and stared at her. But evidently taking her for a ghost,
                        he remained motionless, I suppose from terror, and she let herself out
                        unhindered. She was just going to tell me what madness had possessed her to
                        go curveting about in her precarious position, when she was abruptly
                        interrupted by our carriage suddenly coming to a full stop. The moon was
                        still high in the heavens, from which the clouds had cleared off, as we were
                        creaking and jolting up the very steep main street of a place whose name I
                        have forgotten, but which for lugubriousness of aspect might have outdone
                        any of the wretched hamlets with high-sounding names that Southern Italy
                        boasts of. To judge of it by this light, it might have been a collection of
                        banditti's haunts recently sacked by the Papal gendarmerie. Half the large pale tiles that should  have been on the roofs lay smashed in the
                        thoroughfare beneath. Eight or ten most villainous-looking men, with faces
                        partly overshadowed by their huge felt hats—who had been leaning with their
                        backs against a white wall, apparently in expectation of some
                        casualty—surrounded us in a minute, screaming out, 'Scendete, scendete,
                        Signori!'
                    "Said Raoul: 'Now we are making our own subjects! Here's a picture for me,
                        and a new Fra Diavolo for you! Blest if these vagabonds are not going to
                        carry us off. This is retribution with a vengeance, and the spoilers
                        spoiled.'
                    "I confess that I did not myself see the comic side of it as Raoul did; the
                        idea of Antonella captured by these ruffians was too intolerable. They were
                        more clamorous than ever, ominously staring in at us and vociferating in
                        their unknown patois, though we saw no weapons. To put a good face upon it I
                        leaped out amongst them, saying: 'What do you want? Why do you stop us?'
                        Half a dozen hands now pointed in explanation to the near hind-wheel, and
                        the postilion appeared to be in consultation with a man who was evidently a
                        blacksmith. Any anxiety which we had entertained on the score of brigands,
                        was now changed into dismal impatience, but there was no help for it. A
                        lever prop was inserted under the axle, the defective wheel taken off, and a
                        dozen dark hands bore it to the blacksmith's shed. I had my strong
                        suspicions that the innkeeper of Naples who supplied the vehicle, and these
                        suspicious-looking characters, were in league together. But bribery and
                        bullying seemed equally unavailing. Something was wrong with the nave, or
                             the tire, or the felly of the wheel—I
                        am sure I don't know which; certainly it had creaked enough before these
                        pleasant villagers arrested us. The blacksmith set to at blowing up his
                        fire, and the Fra Diavolesque villagers continued to vociferate in their
                        dialect. Antonella kept quiet in her corner. Raoul and I walked up and down
                        impatiently between the carriage and the smithy; he at times whispering to
                        me, 'Give a good "God damn!" or two now you are near them.' So every time
                        our walk brought us back to the group of vagabonds I ejaculated 'God damn!'
                        as we nervously looked down the moonlit street scanning the distant misty
                        road for signs of pursuit; when suddenly, clattering from the opposite
                        direction, the horses of three real papal gendarmes came in sight.
                    "Raoul squeezed my arm, and I thought for the moment it was all up with us.
                        They drew rein in front of the blacksmith's for an instant. I heard the word
                        'Milordi' uttered; they then came towards us and asked us for our passports.
                        Raoul felt in his pocket; I haughtily gave them a scudo and a 'God damn!' and wishing us a prosperous journey,
                        they clattered off again in the direction from whence we had come.
                    "I breathed once more, and approaching the smithy again, inquired
                        authoritatively of the blacksmith when he would have done. To little
                        purpose, however, as for a full hour afterwards he went on hammering at his
                        bits of iron. Every minute we expected to see the gendarmes return with others from Naples. The peaceful night,
                        however, was undisturbed except for the ringing of the anvil, and the jabber
                        and occasional laughter of the wild-looking villagers. At length, to  our inexpressible relief, the wheel,
                        upborne by the same dark hands, emerged from out the recesses of the
                        Cyclopean smithy, whose furnace every now and then glowed like a demon's eye
                        as the bellows intensified it, bringing out in lurid lines the sinister
                        countenances otherwise overshadowed by their broad brims. The blacksmith's
                        claim of a napoleon for his hour's hammering was discharged. Numerous small
                        coins appeased the clamours of the grinning peasants, and with a tremendous
                        cracking of whip we recommenced our flight with renewed vigour."
                
            
            THE END OF VOL. I.
        
    
