
     ----CITATION----
        Craik, Dinah Maria Mulock (1826-1887). The Little Lame Prince and His Travelling Cloak. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 179 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (13-Dec-1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7135
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    THE LITTLE LAME PRINCE AND HIS TRAVELLING CLOAK 
                    A Parable for Young and Old
                
                BY THE AUTHOR OF “JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN,”
                WITH TWENTY?FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. McL. RALSTON
                
                    LONDON 
                    DALDY, ISBISTER, & CO.
                        56, LUDGATE HILL
                
                1875
                [The Right of Translation is reserved.]
            
            
            
                
                    LONDON: 
                    PRINTED BY VIRTUE AND CO., CITY ROAD.
                
            
            
            
                Inscribed, with deep tenderness, to a dear little boy I know.
            
        
        
        
            
                CHAPTER I.
                YES, he was the most beautiful Prince that ever was born.
                Of course, being a prince, people said this: but it was true besides. When he
                    looked at the candle, his eyes had an expression of earnest inquiry quite
                    startling in a new?born baby. His nose—there was not much of it certainly, but
                    what there was seemed an aquiline shape; his complexion was a charming, healthy
                    purple; he was round and fat, straight?limbed
                    and long—in fact, a splendid baby, and everybody was exceedingly proud of him,
                    especially his father and mother, the King and Queen of Nomansland, who had
                    waited for him during their happy reign of ten years—now made happier than ever,
                    to themselves and their subjects, by the appearance of a son and heir.
                The only person who was not quite happy was the king’s brother, the
                    heir?presumptive, who would have been king one day had the baby not been born.
                    But as his Majesty was very kind to him, and even rather sorry for him—insomuch
                    that at the Queen’s request he gave him a dukedom almost as big as a county—the
                    Crown Prince, as he was called, tried to seem pleased also; and let us hope he
                    succeeded.
                The Prince’s christening was to be a grand affair. According to the custom of the
                    country, there were chosen for him four?and?twenty godfathers and godmothers,
                    who each had to give him a name, and promise to do their utmost for him. When he
                    came of age, he himself had to choose the name—and the godfather or godmother—that he liked the best, for the rest of his
                    days.
                Meantime, all was rejoicing. Subscriptions were made among the rich to give
                    pleasure to the poor; dinners in town?halls for the working men; tea?parties in
                    the streets for their wives; and milk and bun feasts for the children in the
                    schoolrooms. For Nomansland, though I cannot point it out in any map, or read of
                    it in any history, was, I believe, much like our own or many another
                    country.
                As for the Palace—which was no different from other palaces—it was clean “turned
                    out of the windows,” as people say, with the preparations going on. The only
                    quiet place in it was the room which, though the Prince was six weeks old, his
                    mother the Queen had never quitted. Nobody said she was ill, however; it would
                    have been so inconvenient; and as she said nothing about it herself, but lay
                    pale and placid, giving no trouble to anybody, nobody thought much about her.
                    All the world was absorbed in admiring the baby.
                The christening?day came at last, and it was as
                    lovely as the Prince himself. All the people in the palace were lovely too—or
                    thought themselves so—in the elegant new clothes which the Queen, who thought of
                    everybody, had taken care to give them, from the ladies?in?waiting down to the
                    poor little kitchenmaid, who looked at herself in her pink cotton gown, and
                    thought, doubtless, that there never was such a pretty girl as she.
                By six in the morning all the royal household had dressed itself in its very
                    best; and then the little Prince was dressed in his best—his magnificent
                    christening?robe; which proceeding his Royal Highness did not like at all, but
                    kicked and screamed like any common baby. When he had a little calmed down, they
                    carried him to be looked at by the Queen his mother, who, though her royal robes
                    had been brought and laid upon the bed, was, as everybody well knew, quite
                    unable to rise and put them on.
                She admired her baby very much; kissed and blessed him, and lay looking at him,
                    as she did for hours sometimes, when he was placed beside her fast asleep; then
                    she gave him up with a gentle smile, and, saying
                    “she hoped he would be very good, that it would be a very nice christening, and
                    all the guests would enjoy themselves,” turned peacefully over on her bed,
                    saying nothing more to anybody. She was a very uncomplaining person,—the Queen,
                    and her name was Dolorez.
                Everything went on exactly as if she had been present. All, even the King
                    himself, had grown used to her absence, for she was not strong, and for years
                    had not joined in any gaieties. She always did her royal duties, but as to
                    pleasures, they could go on quite well without her, or it seemed so. The company
                    arrived: great and notable persons in this and neighboring countries; also the
                    four?and?twenty godfathers and godmothers, who had been chosen with care, as the
                    people who would be most useful to his Royal Highness, should he ever want
                    friends, which did not seem likely. What such want could possibly happen to the
                    heir of the powerful monarch of Nomansland?
                They came, walking two and two, with their
                    coronets on their heads—being dukes and duchesses, princes and princesses, or
                    the like; they all kissed the child and pronounced the name each had given him.
                    Then the four?and?twenty names were shouted out with great energy by six
                    heralds, one after the other, and afterwards written down, to be preserved in
                    the state records, in readiness for the next time they were wanted, which would
                    be either on his Royal Highness’s coronation or his funeral. Soon the ceremony
                    was over, and everybody satisfied; except, perhaps, the little Prince himself,
                    who moaned faintly under his christening robes, which nearly smothered him.
                In truth, though very few knew, the Prince in coming to the chapel had met with a
                    slight disaster. His nurse,—not his ordinary one, but the state nursemaid, an
                    elegant and fashionable young lady of rank, whose duty it was to carry him to
                    and from the chapel, had been so occupied in arranging her train with one hand,
                    while she held the baby with the other, that she stumbled and let him fall, just
                    at the foot of the marble staircase. To be sure, she contrived to pick him up
                    again the next minute; and the accident was so
                    slight it seemed hardly worth speaking of. Consequently, nobody did speak of it.
                    The baby had turned deadly pale but did not cry, so no person a step or two
                    behind could discover anything wrong; afterwards, even if he had moaned, the
                    silver trumpets were loud enough to drown his voice. It would have been a pity
                    to let anything trouble such a day of felicity.
                So, after a minute’s pause, the procession had moved on. Such a procession!
                    Heralds in blue and silver; pages in crimson and gold; and a troop of little
                    girls in dazzling white, carrying baskets of flowers, which they strewed all the
                    way before the nurse and child,—finally the four?and?twenty godfathers and
                    godmothers, as proud as possible, and so splendid to look at that they would
                    have quite extinguished their small godson—merely a heap of lace and muslin with
                    a baby?face inside—had it not been for a canopy of white satin and ostrich
                    feathers, which was held over him wherever he was carried.
                Thus, with the sun shining on them through the
                    painted windows, they stood; the King and his train on one side, the Prince and
                    his attendants on the other, as pretty a sight as ever was seen out of
                    fairyland.
                “It’s just like fairyland,” whispered the eldest little girl to the next eldest,
                    as she shook the last rose out of her basket; “and I think the only thing the
                    Prince wants now is a fairy godmother.”
                “Does he?” said a shrill but soft and not unpleasant voice behind; and there was
                    seen among the group of children somebody,—not a child,—yet no bigger than a
                    child: somebody whom nobody had seen before, and who certainly had not been
                    invited, for she had no christening clothes on.
                She was a little old woman dressed all in grey: grey gown; grey hooded cloak, of
                    a material excessively fine, and a tint that seemed perpetually changing, like
                    the grey of an evening sky. Her hair was grey, and her eyes also—even her
                    complexion had a soft grey shadow over it. But there was nothing unpleasantly
                    old about her, and her smile was as sweet and childlike as the Prince’s own, which stole over his pale little
                    face the instant she came near enough to touch him.
                “Take care. Don’t let the baby fall again.”
                The grand young lady nurse started, flushing angrily.
                “Who spoke to me? How did anybody know?—I mean, what business has anybody—?” Then
                    frightened, but still speaking in a much sharper tone than I hope young ladies
                    of rank are in the habit of speaking—“Old woman, you will be kind enough not to
                    say ‘the baby,’ but ‘the Prince.’ Keep away; his Royal Highness is just going to
                    sleep.”
                “Nevertheless, I must kiss him. I am his godmother.”
                “You!” cried the elegant lady nurse.
                “You!” repeated all the gentlemen and ladies in waiting.
                “You!!!” echoed the heralds and pages—and they began to blow the silver trumpets,
                    in order to stop all further conversation.
                The Prince’s procession formed itself for 
                        re? turning
                        returning
                    ,—the King and his train having already moved off toward the
                    palace,—but on the topmost step of the marble stairs, stood, right in front of
                    all, the little old woman clothed in grey.
                 
                She stretched herself on tiptoe by the help of her stick, and gave the little
                    Prince three kisses.
                
                “This is intolerable,” cried the young lady nurse, wiping the kisses off rapidly
                    with her lace handkerchief. “Such an insult to his Royal Highness! Take yourself
                    out of the way, old woman, or the King shall be informed immediately.”
                “The King knows nothing of me, more’s the pity,” replied the old woman, with an
                    indifferent air, as if she thought the loss was more on his Majesty’s side than
                    hers. “My friend in the palace is the King’s wife.”
                “Kings’ wives are called queens,” said the lady nurse, with a contemptuous
                    air.
                “You are right,” replied the old woman. “Nevertheless I know her Majesty well,
                    and I love her and her child. And—since you dropped him on the marble stairs
                    (this she said in a mysterious whisper, which made the young lady tremble in
                    spite of her anger)—I choose to take him for my own. I am his godmother, ready
                    to help him whenever he wants me.”
                “You help him!” cried all the group, breaking into shouts of laughter, to which
                    the little old woman paid not the slightest
                    attention. Her soft grey eyes were fixed on the Prince, who seemed to answer to
                    the look, smiling again and again in the causeless, aimless fashion, as babies
                    do smile.
                “His Majesty must hear of this,” said a gentleman?in?waiting.
                “His Majesty will hear quite enough news in a minute or two,” said the old woman
                    sadly. And again stretching up to the little Prince, she kissed him on the
                    forehead solemnly.
                “Be called by a new name which nobody has ever thought of. Be Prince Dolor, in
                    memory of your mother Dolorez.”
                “In memory of!” Everybody started at the ominous phrase, and also at a most
                    terrible breach of etiquette which the old woman had committed. In Nomansland,
                    neither the king nor the queen was supposed to have any Christian name at all.
                    They dropped it on their coronation day, and it never was mentioned again till
                    it was engraved on their coffins when they died.
                “Old woman, you are exceedingly ill?bred,” cried the eldest lady in waiting, much
                        horrified. “How you could know the fact
                    passes my comprehension. But even if you did know it, how dared you presume to
                    hint that her most gracious Majesty is called Dolorez?”
                “Was called Dolorez,” said the old woman, with a tender
                    solemnity.
                The first gentleman, called the Gold?stick?in?waiting, raised it to strike her,
                    and all the rest stretched out their hands to seize her; but the grey mantle
                    melted from between their fingers like air; and, before anybody had time to do
                    anything more, there came a heavy, muffled, startling sound.
                The great bell of the palace—the bell which was only heard on the death of some
                    one of the Royal family, and for as many times as he or she was years old—began
                    to toll. They listened, mute and horror?stricken. Some one counted:
                    one—two—three—four—up to nine and twenty—just the Queen’s age.
                It was, indeed, the Queen. Her Majesty was dead! In the midst of the festivities
                    she had slipped away, out of her new happiness and her old sufferings, not few nor small. Sending away all
                    her women to see the sight,—at least they said afterward, in excuse, that she
                    had done so, and it was very like her to do it,—she had turned with her face to
                    the window, whence one could just see the tops of the distant mountains—the
                    Beautiful Mountains, as they were called—where she was born. So gazing, she had
                    quietly died.
                When the little Prince was carried back to his mother’s room, there was no mother
                    to kiss him. And, though he did not know it, there would be for him no mother’s
                    kiss any more.
                As for his Godmother,—the little old woman in grey who called herself so,—whether
                    she melted into air, like her gown when they touched it, or whether she flew out
                    of the chapel window, or slipped through the doorway among the bewildered crowd,
                    nobody knew—nobody ever thought about her.
                Only the nurse, the ordinary homely one, coming out of the Prince’s nursery in
                    the middle of the night in search of a cordial to quiet his continual moans, saw, sitting in the doorway,
                    something which she would have thought a mere shadow, had she not seen shining
                    out of it two eyes, grey and soft and sweet. She put her hand before her own,
                    screaming loudly. When she took them away the old woman was gone.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                EVERYBODY was very kind to the poor little prince. I think people
                    generally are kind to motherless children, whether princes or peasants. He had a
                    magnificent nursery, and a regular suite of attendants, and was treated with the
                    greatest respect and state. Nobody was allowed to talk to him in silly baby
                    language, or dandle him, or, above all, to kiss him, though, perhaps, some
                    people did it surreptitiously, for he was such a sweet baby that it was
                    difficult to help it.
                It could not be said that the Prince missed his mother; children of his age
                    cannot do that; but somehow after she died everything seemed to go wrong with
                    him. From a beautiful baby he became sickly and pale, seeming to have almost
                    ceased growing, especially in his legs, which had been so fat and strong. But after the day of his christening they withered
                    and shrank; he no longer kicked them out either in passion or play, and when, as
                    he got to be nearly a year old, his nurse tried to make him stand upon them, he
                    only tumbled down.
                This happened so many times, that at last people began to talk about it. A
                    prince, and not able to stand on his own legs! What a dreadful thing! what a
                    misfortune for the country!
                Rather a misfortune to him also, poor little boy! but nobody seemed to think of
                    that. And when, after a while, his health revived, and the old bright look came
                    back to his sweet little face, and his body grew larger and stronger, though
                    still his legs remained the same, people continued to speak of him in whispers,
                    and with grave shakes of the head. Everybody knew, though nobody said it, that
                    something, impossible to guess what, was not quite right with the poor little
                    Prince.
                Of course, nobody hinted this to the King his father: it does not do to tell
                    great people 
                        any? thing
                        anything
                     unpleasant. And besides, his Majesty took very little notice of his
                    son, or of his other affairs, beyond the necessary duties of his kingdom. People
                    had said he would not miss the Queen at all, she having been so long an invalid:
                    but he did. After her death he never was quite the same. He established himself
                    in her empty rooms, the only rooms in the palace whence one could see the
                    Beautiful Mountains, and was often observed looking at them as if he thought she
                    had flown away thither, and that his longing could bring her back again. And by
                    a curious coincidence, which nobody dared inquire into, he desired that the
                    Prince might be called, not by any of the four?and?twenty grand names given him
                    by his godfathers and godmothers, but by the identical name mentioned by the
                    little old woman in grey,—Dolor, after his mother Dolorez.
                Once a week, according to established state custom, the Prince, dressed in his
                    very best, was brought to the King his father for half?an?hour, but his Majesty
                    was generally too ill and too melancholy to pay much heed to the child.
                
                Only once, when he and the Crown Prince, who was exceedingly attentive to his
                    royal brother, were sitting together, with Prince Dolor playing in a corner of
                    the room, dragging himself about with his arms rather than his legs, and
                    sometimes trying feebly to crawl from one chair to another, it seemed to strike
                    the father that all was not right with his son.
                “How old is his Royal Highness?” said he suddenly to the nurse.
                “Two years, three months, and five days, please your Majesty.”
                “It does not please me,” said the King, with a sigh. “He ought to be far more
                    forward than he is now, ought he not, brother? You, who have so many children,
                    must know. Is there not something wrong about him?”
                “Oh, no,” said the Crown?Prince, exchanging meaning looks with the nurse, who did
                    not understand at all, but stood frightened and trembling with the tears in her
                    eyes. “Nothing to make your Majesty at all uneasy. No doubt his Royal Highness
                    will outgrow it in time.”
                
                “Outgrow—what?”
                “A slight delicacy—ahem!—in the spine; something inherited, perhaps, from his
                    dear mother.”
                “Ah, she was always delicate; but she was the sweetest woman that ever lived.
                    Come here, my little son.”
                And as the Prince turned round upon his father a small, sweet, grave face,—so
                    like his mother’s,—his Majesty the King smiled and held out his arms. But when
                    the boy came to him, not running like a boy, but wriggling awkwardly along the
                    floor, the royal countenance clouded over.
                “I ought to have been told of this. It is terrible—terrible! And for a prince
                    too. Send for all the doctors in my kingdom immediately.”
                They came, and each gave a different opinion and ordered a different mode of
                    treatment. The only thing they agreed in was what had been pretty well known
                    before: that the Prince must have been hurt when he was an infant—let fall,
                    perhaps, so as to injure his spine and lower limbs. Did nobody remember?
                
                No, nobody. Indignantly, all the nurses denied that any such accident had
                    happened, was possible to have happened, until the faithful country nurse
                    recollected that it really had happened, on the day of the christening. For
                    which unluckily good memory, all the others scolded her so severely that she had
                    no peace of her life, and soon after, by the influence of the young lady nurse
                    who had carried the baby that fatal day, and who was a sort of connection of the
                    Crown Prince, being his wife’s second cousin once removed—the poor woman was
                    pensioned off, and sent to the Beautiful Mountains, from whence she came, with
                    orders to remain there for the rest of her days.
                
                But of all this the King knew nothing, for, indeed, after the first shock of
                    finding out that his son could not walk, and seemed never likely to walk, he
                    interfered very little concerning him. The whole thing was too painful, and his
                    Majesty never liked painful things. Sometimes he inquired after Prince Dolor,
                    and they told him his Royal Highness was going on as well as could be expected,
                    which really was the case. For, after worrying the poor child and perplexing
                    themselves with one remedy after another, the Crown Prince, not wishing to
                    offend any of the differing doctors, had proposed leaving him to nature; and
                    nature, the safest doctor of all, had come to his help and done her best. He
                    could not walk, it is true; his limbs were mere useless additions to his body;
                    but the body itself was strong and sound. And his face was the same as ever—just
                    his mother’s face, one of the sweetest in the world!
                Even the King, indifferent as he was, sometimes looked at the little fellow with
                    sad tenderness, noticing how cleverly he learned to crawl, and swing himself
                    about by his arms, so that in his own awkward
                    way he was as active in motion as most children of his age.
                “Poor little man! he does his best, and he is not unhappy—not half so unhappy as
                    I, brother,” addressing the Crown Prince, who was more constant than ever in his
                    attendance upon the sick monarch. “If anything should befall me, I have
                    appointed you as Regent. In case of my death, you will take care of my poor
                    little boy?”
                “Certainly, certainly; but do not let us imagine any such misfortune. I assure
                    your Majesty—everybody will assure you—that it is not in the least likely.”
                He knew, however, and everybody knew, that it was likely, and soon after it
                    actually did happen. The King died as suddenly and quietly as the Queen had
                    done—indeed, in her very room and bed; and Prince Dolor was left without either
                    father or mother—as sad a thing as could happen, even to a prince.
                He was more than that now, though. He was a king. In Nomansland, as in other
                    countries, the people were struck with grief one day and revived the next. “The king is dead—long live the
                    king!” was the cry that rang through the nation, and almost before his late
                    Majesty had been laid beside the queen in their splendid mausoleum, crowds came
                    thronging from all parts to the royal palace, eager to see the new monarch.
                They did see him,—the Prince Regent took care they should,—sitting on the floor
                    of the council chamber, sucking his thumb! And when one of the
                    gentlemen?in?waiting lifted him up and carried
                    him—fancy carrying a king!—to the chair of state, and put the crown on his head,
                    he shook it off again, it was so heavy and uncomfortable. Sliding down to the
                    foot of the throne he began playing with the golden lions that supported it,
                    stroking their paws and putting his tiny fingers into their eyes, and
                    laughing—laughing as if he had at last found something to amuse him.
                “There’s a fine king for you!” said the first lord?in?waiting, a friend of the
                    Prince Regent’s (the Crown Prince that used to be, who, in the deepest mourning,
                    stood silently beside the throne of his young nephew. He was a handsome man,
                    very grand and clever looking). “What a king! who can never stand to receive his
                    subjects, never walk in processions, who to the last day of his life will have
                    to be carried about like a baby. Very unfortunate!”
                “Exceedingly unfortunate,” repeated the second lord. “It is always bad for a
                    nation when its king is a child; but such a child—a permanent cripple, if not
                    worse.”
                “Let us hope not worse,” said the first lord in
                    a very hopeless tone, and looking toward the Regent, who stood erect and
                    pretended to hear nothing. “I have heard that these sort of children with very
                    large heads, and great broad foreheads and staring eyes, are—well, well, let us
                    hope for the best and be prepared for the worst. In the meantime—”
                “I swear,” said the Crown Prince, coming forward and kissing the hilt of his
                    sword—“I swear to perform my duties as Regent, to take all care of his Royal
                    Highness—his Majesty, I mean,” with a grand bow to the little child, who laughed
                    innocently back again. “And I will do my humble best to govern the country.
                    Still, if the country has the slightest objection—”
                But the Crown Prince being generalissimo, and having the whole army at his beck
                    and call, so that he could have begun a civil war in no time, the country had,
                    of course, not the slightest objection.
                So the king and queen slept together in peace, and Prince Dolor reigned over the
                    land—that is, his uncle did; and everybody said what a 
                        fortu? nate
                        fortunate
                     thing it was for the poor little Prince to have such a clever uncle to
                    take care of him. All things went on as usual; indeed, after the Regent had
                    brought his wife and her seven sons, and established them in the palace, rather
                    better than usual. For they gave such splendid entertainments and made the
                    capital so lively, that trade revived, and the country was said to be more
                    flourishing than it had been for a century.
                Whenever the Regent and his sons appeared, they were received with shouts—“Long
                    live the Crown Prince!” “Long live the Royal family!” And, in truth, they were
                    very fine children, the whole seven of them, and made a great show when they
                    rode out together on seven beautiful horses, one height above another, down to
                    the youngest, on his tiny black pony, no bigger than a large dog.
                As for the other child, his Royal Highness Prince Dolor,—for somehow people soon
                    ceased to call him his Majesty, which seemed such a ridiculous title for a poor
                    little fellow, a helpless cripple, with only head and trunk, and no legs to speak of,—he was seen very seldom by
                    anybody.
                Sometimes people daring enough to peer over the high wall of the palace garden,
                    noticed there, carried in a footman’s arms, or drawn in a chair, or left to play
                    on the grass, often with nobody to mind him, a pretty little boy, with a bright,
                    intelligent face, and large, melancholy eyes—no
                    not exactly melancholy, for they were his mother’s, and she was by no means
                    sad?minded, but thoughtful and dreamy. They rather perplexed people, those
                    childish eyes; they were so exceedingly innocent and yet so penetrating. If
                    anybody did a wrong thing, told a lie, for instance, they would turn round with
                    such a grave, silent surprise—the child never talked much—that every naughty
                    person in the palace was rather afraid of Prince Dolor.
                He could not help it, and perhaps he did not even know it, being no better a
                    child than many other children, but there was something about him which made bad
                    people sorry, and grumbling people ashamed of themselves, and ill?natured people
                    gentle and kind. I suppose, because they were touched to see a poor little
                    fellow who did not in the least know what had befallen him, or what lay before
                    him, living his baby life as happy as the day is long. Thus, whether or not he
                    was good himself, the sight of him and his affliction made other people good,
                    and, above all, made everybody love him. So much so, that his uncle the Regent began to feel a little
                    uncomfortable.
                Now, I have nothing to say against uncles in general. They are usually very
                    excellent people, and very convenient to little boys and girls.
                Even the “cruel uncle” of “The Babes in the Wood” I believe to be quite an
                    exceptional character. And this “cruel uncle” of whom I am telling was, I hope,
                    an exception, too.
                He did not mean to be cruel. If anybody had called him so, he would have resented
                    it extremely: he would have said that what he did was done entirely for the good
                    of the country. But he was a man who had always been accustomed to consider
                    himself first and foremost, believing that whatever he wanted was sure to be
                    right, and, therefore, he ought to have it. So he tried to get it, and got it
                    too, as people like him very often do. Whether they enjoy it when they have it
                    is another question.
                Therefore, he went one day to the council?chamber, determined on making a speech
                    and informing the ministers and the country at large that the young King was in failing health, and that
                    it would be advisable to send him for a time to the Beautiful Mountains. Whether
                    he really meant to do this; or whether it occurred to him afterward that there
                    would be an easier way of attaining his great desire, the crown of Nomansland,
                    is a point which I cannot decide.
                But soon after, when he had obtained an order in council to send the King
                    away—which was done in great state, with a guard of honor composed of two whole
                    regiments of soldiers,—the nation learnt, without much surprise, that the poor
                    little Prince—nobody ever called him king now—had gone a much longer journey
                    than to the Beautiful Mountains.
                He had fallen ill on the road and died within a few hours; at least so declared
                    the physician in attendance, and the nurse who had been sent to take care of
                    him. They brought his coffin back in great state, and buried it in the mausoleum
                    with his parents.
                So Prince Dolor was seen no more. The country went into deep mourning for him,
                    and then forgot him, and his uncle reigned in his stead. That illustrious
                    personage accepted his crown with great decorum, and wore it with great dignity,
                    to the last. But whether he enjoyed it or not, there is no evidence to show.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                AND what of the little lame Prince, whom everybody seemed so easily to
                    have forgotten?
                Not everybody. There were a few kind souls, mothers of families, who had heard
                    his sad story, and some servants about the palace, who had been familiar with
                    his sweet ways—these many a time sighed and said, “Poor Prince Dolor!” Or,
                    looking at the Beautiful Mountains, which were visible all over Nomansland,
                    though few people ever visited them, “Well, perhaps his Royal Highness is better
                    where he is than even there.”
                They did not know—indeed, hardly anybody did know—that beyond the mountains,
                    between them and the sea, lay a tract of country, barren, level, bare, except
                    for short stunted grass, and here and there a patch of tiny flowers. Not a
                        bush— not a tree—not a resting?place for
                    bird or beast was in that dreary plain. In summer the sunshine fell upon it hour
                    after hour with a blinding glare; in winter the winds and rains swept over it
                    unhindered, and the snow came down steadily, noiselessly, covering it from end
                    to end in one great white sheet, which lay for days and weeks unmarked by a
                    single footprint.
                Not a pleasant place to live in—and nobody did live there, apparently. The only
                    sign that human creatures had ever been near the spot was one large round tower
                    which rose up in the centre of the plain, and might be seen all over it—if there
                    had been anybody to see, which there never was. Rose, right up out of the
                    ground, as if it had grown of itself, like a mushroom. But it was not at all
                    mushroom?like; on the contrary, it was very solidly built. In form, it resembled
                    the Irish round towers, which have puzzled people for so long, nobody being able
                    to find out when, or by whom, or for what purpose they were made; seemingly for
                    no use at all, like this tower. It was circular, of very firm brickwork, with
                    neither doors nor windows, until near the top,
                    when you could perceive some slits in the wall through which one might possibly
                    creep in or look out. Its height was nearly a hundred feet high, and it had a
                    battlemented parapet, showing sharp against the sky.
                As the plain was quite desolate—almost like a desert, only without sand, and led
                    to nowhere except the still more desolate sea?coast—nobody ever crossed it.
                    Whatever mystery there was about the tower, it and the sky and the plain kept
                    their secret to themselves.
                It was a very great secret indeed,—a state secret,—which none but so clever a man
                    as the present King of Nomansland would ever have thought of. How he carried it
                    out, undiscovered, I cannot tell. People said, long afterward, that it was by
                    means of a gang of condemned criminals, who were set to work, and executed
                    immediately after they had done, so that nobody knew anything, or in the least
                    suspected the real fact.
                And what was the fact? Why, that this tower, which seemed a mere mass of masonry,
                    utterly forsaken and uninhabited, was not so at all. Within twenty feet of the top, some ingenious
                    architect had planned a perfect little house, divided into four rooms—as by
                    drawing a cross within a circle you will see might easily be done. By making
                    skylights, and a few slits in the walls for windows, and raising a peaked roof
                    which was hidden by the parapet, here was a dwelling complete; eighty feet from
                    the ground, and as inaccessible as a rook’s nest on the top of a tree.
                A charming place to live in! if you once got up there, and never wanted to come
                    down again.
                Inside—though nobody could have looked inside except a bird, and hardly even a
                    bird flew past that lonely tower—inside it was furnished with all the comfort
                    and elegance imaginable; with lots of books and toys, and everything that the
                    heart of a child could desire. For its only inhabitant, except a nurse of
                    course, was a poor little solitary child.
                One winter night, when all the plain was white with moonlight, there was seen
                    crossing it a great tall black horse, ridden by a man also big and equally
                    black, carrying before him on the saddle a
                    woman and a child. The woman—she had a sad, fierce look, and no wonder, for she
                    was a criminal under sentence of death, but her sentence had been changed to
                    almost as severe a punishment. She was to
                    inhabit the lonely tower with the child, and was allowed to live as long as the
                    child lived—no longer. This, in order that she might take the utmost care of
                    him; for those who put him there were equally afraid of his dying and of his
                    living. Yet he was only a little gentle boy, with a sweet, sleepy smile—he had
                    been very tired with his long journey—and clinging arms, which held tight to the
                    man’s neck, for he was rather frightened, and the face, black as it was, looked
                    kindly at him. And he was very helpless, with his poor, small shriveled legs,
                    which could neither stand nor run away—for the little forlorn boy was Prince
                    Dolor.
                He had not been dead at all—or buried either. His grand funeral had been a mere
                    pretense: a wax figure having been put in his place, while he himself was
                    spirited away under charge of these two, the condemned woman and the black man.
                    The latter was deaf and dumb, so could neither tell nor repeat anything.
                When they reached the foot of the tower, there was light enough to see a huge
                    chain dangling from the parapet, but dangling
                    only halfway. The deaf?mute took from his saddle?wallet a sort of ladder,
                    arranged in pieces like a puzzle, fitted it together, and lifted it up to meet
                    the chain. Then he mounted to the top of the tower, and slung from it a sort of
                    chair, in which the woman and the child placed themselves and were drawn up,
                    never to come down again as long as they lived. Leaving them there, the man
                    descended the ladder, took it to pieces again and packed it in his pack, mounted
                    the horse and disappeared across the plain.
                
                Every month they used to watch for him, appearing like a speck in the distance.
                    He fastened his horse to the foot of the tower, and climbed it, as before, laden
                    with provisions and many other things. He always saw the Prince, so as to make
                    sure that the child was alive and well, and then went away until the following
                    month.
                While his first childhood lasted, Prince Dolor was happy enough. He had every
                    luxury that even a prince could need, and the one thing wanting,—love, never
                    having known, he did not miss. His nurse was very kind to him though she was a
                    wicked woman. But either she had not been quite so wicked as people said, or she
                    grew better through being shut up continually with a little innocent child, who
                    was dependent upon her for every comfort and pleasure of his life.
                It was not an unhappy life. There was nobody to teaze or ill?use him, and he was
                    never ill. He played about from room to room—there were four rooms, parlor,
                    kitchen, his nurse’s bedroom, and his own; learnt to crawl like a fly, and to
                    jump like a frog, and to run about on all?fours almost as fast as a puppy. In fact, he was very much like a
                    puppy or a kitten, as thoughtless and as merry—scarcely ever cross, though
                    sometimes a little weary.
                As he grew older, he occasionally liked to be quiet for a while, and then he
                    would sit at the slits of windows, which were, however, much bigger than they
                    looked from the bottom of the tower—and watch the sky above and the ground
                    below, with the storms sweeping over and the sunshine coming and going, and the
                    shadows of the clouds running races across the blank plain.
                By?and?by he began to learn lessons—not that his
                    nurse had been ordered to teach him, but she did it partly to amuse herself. She
                    was not a stupid woman, and Prince Dolor was by no means a stupid boy; so they
                    got on very well, and his continual entreaty, “What can I do? what can you find
                    me to do?” was stopped; at least for an hour or two in the day.
                It was a dull life, but he had never known any other; anyhow, he remembered no
                    other, and he did not pity himself at all. Not for a long time, till he grew
                    quite a big little boy, and could read quite easily. Then he suddenly took to
                    books, which the deaf?mute brought him from time to time—books which, not being
                    acquainted with the literature of Nomansland, I cannot describe, but no doubt
                    they were very interesting; and they informed him of everything in the outside
                    world, and filled him with an intense longing to see it.
                From this time a change came over the boy. He began to look sad and thin, and to
                    shut himself up for hours without speaking. For his nurse hardly spoke, and
                    whatever questions he asked beyond their
                    ordinary daily life she never answered. She had, indeed, been forbidden, on pain
                    of death, to tell him anything about himself, who he was, or what he might have
                    been. He knew he was Prince Dolor, because she always addressed him as “my
                    prince” and “your royal highness,” but what a prince was he had not the least
                    idea. He had no idea of anything in the world, except what he found in his
                    books.
                He sat one day surrounded by them, having built them up round him like a little
                    castle wall. He had been reading them half the day, but feeling all the while
                    that to read about things which you never can see is like hearing about a
                    beautiful dinner while you are starving. For almost the first time in his life
                    he grew melancholy: his hands fell on his lap; he sat gazing out of the
                    window?slit upon the view outside—the view he had looked at every day of his
                    life, and might look at for endless days more.
                Not a very cheerful view,—just the plain and the sky,—but he liked it. He used to
                    think, if he could only fly out of that window, up to the sky or down to the plain, how nice it would be! Perhaps when
                    he died—his nurse had told him once in anger that he would never leave the tower
                    till he died—he might be able to do this. Not that he understood much what dying
                    meant, but it must be a change, and any change seemed to him a blessing.
                “And I wish I had somebody to tell me all about it; about that and many other
                    things; somebody that would be fond of me, like my poor white kitten.”
                Here the tears came into his eyes, for the boy’s one friend, the one interest of
                    his life, had been a little white kitten, which the deaf?mute, kindly smiling,
                    once took out of his pocket and gave him—the only living creature Prince Dolor
                    had ever seen. For four weeks it was his constant plaything and companion, till
                    one moonlight night it took a fancy for wandering, climbed on to the parapet of
                    the tower, dropped over and disappeared. It was not killed, he hoped, for cats
                    have nine lives; indeed, he almost fancied he saw it pick itself up and scamper
                    away; but he never caught sight of it more.
                
                “Yes, I wish I had something better than a kitten—a person, a real live person,
                    who would be fond of me and kind to me. Oh, I want somebody—dreadfully,
                    dreadfully!”
                As he spoke, there sounded behind him a slight tap?tap?tap, as of a stick or a
                    cane, and twisting himself round, he saw—what do you think he saw?
                Nothing either frightening or ugly, but still exceedingly curious. A little
                    woman, no bigger than he might himself have been had his legs grown like those
                    of other children; but she was not a child—she was an old woman. Her hair was
                    grey, and her dress was grey, and there was a grey shadow over her wherever she
                    moved. But she had the sweetest smile, the prettiest hands, and when she spoke
                    it was in the softest voice imaginable.
                “My dear little boy,”—and dropping her cane, the only bright and rich thing about
                    her, she laid those two tiny hands on his shoulders,—“my own little boy, I could
                    not come to you until you had said you wanted me; but now you do want me, here I
                    am.”
                
                “And you are very welcome, madam,” replied the Prince, trying to speak politely,
                    as princes always did in books; “and I am exceedingly obliged to you. May I ask
                    who you are? Perhaps my mother?” For he knew that little boys usually had a
                    mother, and had occasionally wondered what had become of his own.
                “No,” said the visitor, with a tender, half?sad smile, putting back the hair from
                    his forehead, and looking right into his eyes—“No, I am not your mother, though
                    she was a dear friend of mine; and you are as like her as ever you can be.”
                “Will you tell her to come and see me, then?”
                “She cannot; but I dare say she knows all about you. And she loves you very
                    much—and so do I; and I want to help you all I can, my poor little boy.”
                “Why do you call me poor?” asked Prince Dolor, in surprise.
                The little old woman glanced down on his legs and feet, which he did not know
                    were different from those of other children, and then at his sweet, bright face,
                    which, though he knew not that either, was
                    exceedingly different from many children’s faces, which are often so fretful,
                    cross, sullen. Looking at him, instead of sighing, she smiled. “I beg your
                    pardon, my Prince,” said she.
                “Yes, I am a prince, and my name is Dolor; will you tell me yours, madam?”
                The little old woman laughed like a chime of silver bells.
                “I have not got a name—or, rather, I have so many names that I don’t know which
                    to choose. However, it was I who gave you yours, and you will belong to me all
                    your days. I am your godmother.”
                “Hurrah!” cried the little prince; “I am glad I belong to you, for I like you
                    very much. Will you come and play with me?”
                So they sat down together and played. By?and?by they began to talk.
                “Are you very dull here?” asked the little old woman.
                “Not particularly, thank you, godmother. I have plenty to eat and drink, and my
                    lessons to do, and my books to read—lots of books.”
                
                “And you want nothing?”
                “Nothing. Yes—perhaps—If you please, godmother, could you bring me just one more
                    thing?”
                “What sort of thing?”
                “A little boy to play with.”
                The old woman looked very sad. “Just the thing, alas, which I cannot give you. My
                    child, I cannot alter your lot in any way, but I can help you to bear it.”
                “Thank you. But why do you talk of bearing it? I have nothing to bear.”
                “My poor little man!” said the old woman in the very tenderest tone of her tender
                    voice. “Kiss me!”
                “What is kissing?” asked the wondering child.
                His godmother took him in her arms and embraced him many times. By?and?by he
                    kissed her back again—at first awkwardly and shyly, then with all the strength
                    of his warm little heart.
                “You are better to cuddle than even my white kitten, I think. Promise me that you
                    will never go away,”
                
                “I must; but I will leave a present behind me,—something as good as myself to
                    amuse you—something that will take you wherever you want to go, and show you all
                    that you wish to see.”
                “What is it?”
                “A travelling?cloak.”
                The Prince’s countenance fell. “I don’t want a cloak, for I never go out.
                    Sometimes nurse hoists me on to the roof, and carries me round by the parapet;
                    but that is all. I can’t walk, you know, as she does.”
                “The more reason why you should ride; and besides, this travelling?cloak—”
                “Hush!—she’s coming.”
                There sounded outside the room door a heavy step and a grumpy voice, and a rattle
                    of plates and dishes.
                “It’s my nurse, and she is bringing my dinner; but I don’t want dinner at all—I
                    only want you. Will her coming drive you away, godmother?”
                “Perhaps; but only for a little while. Never mind; all the bolts and bars in the
                    world couldn’t keep me out. I’d fly in at the window, or down through the chimney. Only wish for me, and I
                    come.”
                “Thank you,” said Prince Dolor, but almost in a whisper, for he was very uneasy
                    at what might happen next. His nurse and his godmother—what would they say to
                    one another? how would they look at one another?—two such different faces: one
                    harsh?lined, sullen, cross, and sad; the other, sweet and bright and calm as a
                    summer evening before the dark begins.
                When the door was flung open, Prince Dolor shut his eyes, trembling all over;
                    opening them again, he saw he need fear nothing; his lovely old godmother had
                    melted away just like the rainbow out of the sky, as he had watched it many a
                    time. Nobody but his nurse was in the room.
                “What a muddle your Royal Highness is sitting in,” said she sharply. “Such a heap
                    of untidy books; and what’s this rubbish?” knocking a little bundle that lay
                    beside them.
                “Oh, nothing, nothing—give it me!” cried the prince, and, darting after it, he
                    hid it under his pinafore, and then pushed it quickly into his pocket. Rubbish as it was, it was left in the place
                    where she sat, and might be something belonging to her—his dear, kind godmother,
                    whom already he loved with all his lonely, tender, passionate heart.
                It was, though he did not know this, his wonderful travelling?cloak.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                AND what of the travelling?cloak? What sort of cloak was it, and what
                    good did it do the Prince?
                Stay, and I’ll tell you all about it.
                Outside it was the commonest?looking bundle imaginable—shabby and small; and the
                    instant Prince Dolor touched it, it grew smaller still, dwindling down till he
                    could put it in his trousers pocket, like a handkerchief rolled up into a ball.
                    He did this at once, for fear his nurse should see it, and kept it there all
                    day—all night, too. Till after his next morning’s lessons he had no opportunity
                    of examining his treasure.
                When he did, it seemed no treasure at all; but a mere piece of cloth—circular in
                    form, dark green in color, that is, if it had any color at all, being so worn and shabby, though not dirty. It had a split
                    cut to the centre, forming a round hole for the neck—and that was all its shape;
                    the shape, in fact, of those cloaks which in South America are called ponchos—very simple, but most graceful and
                    convenient.
                Prince Dolor had never seen anything like it. In spite of his disappointment he
                    examined it curiously; spread it out on the floor, then arranged it on his
                    shoulders. It felt very warm and comfortable; but it was so exceedingly
                    shabby—the only shabby thing that the Prince had ever seen in his life.
                “And what use will it be to me?” said he sadly. “I have no need of outdoor
                    clothes, as I never go out. Why was this given me, I wonder? and what in the
                    world am I to do with it? She must be a rather funny person, this dear godmother
                    of mine.”
                Nevertheless, because she was his godmother, and had given him the cloak, he
                    folded it carefully and put it away, poor and shabby as it was, hiding it in a
                    safe corner of his toy?cupboard, which his
                    nurse never meddled with. He did not want her to find it, or to laugh at it, or
                    at his godmother—as he felt sure she would, if she knew all.
                There it lay, and by?and?by he forgot all about it; nay, I am sorry to say, that,
                    being but a child, and not seeing her again, he almost forgot his sweet old
                    godmother, or thought of her only as he did of the angels or fairies that he
                    read of in his books, and of her visit as if it had been a mere dream of the
                    night.
                There were times, certainly, when he recalled her; of early mornings like that
                    morning when she appeared beside him, and late evenings, when the grey twilight
                    reminded him of the color of her hair and her pretty soft garments; above all,
                    when, waking in the middle of the night, with the stars peering in at his
                    window, or the moonlight shining across his little bed, he would not have been
                    surprised to see her standing beside it, looking at him with those beautiful
                    tender eyes, which seemed to have a pleasantness and comfort in them different
                    from anything he had ever known.
                But she never came, and gradually she slipped
                    out of his memory—only a boy’s memory, after all; until something happened which
                    made him remember her, and want her as he had never wanted anything before.
                Prince Dolor fell ill. He caught—his nurse could not tell how—a complaint common
                    to the people of Nomansland, called the doldrums, as unpleasant as measles or
                    any other of our complaints; and it made him restless, cross, and disagreeable.
                    Even when a little better, he was too weak to enjoy anything, but lay all day
                    long on his sofa, fidgeting his nurse extremely—while, in her intense terror
                    lest he might die, she fidgeted him still more. At last, seeing he really was
                    getting well, she left him to himself—which he was most glad of, in spite of his
                    dulness and dreariness. There he lay, alone, quite alone.
                Now and then an irritable fit came over him, in which he longed to get up and do
                    something, or to go somewhere—would have liked to imitate his white kitten—jump
                    down from the tower and run away, taking the chance of whatever might
                    happen.
                Only one thing, alas! was likely to happen; for
                    the kitten, he remembered, had four active legs, while he—
                “I wonder what my godmother meant when she looked at my legs and sighed so
                    bitterly? I wonder why I can’t walk straight and steady like my nurse—only I
                    wouldn’t like to have her great, noisy, clumping shoes. Still it would be very
                    nice to move about quickly—perhaps to fly, like a bird, like that string of
                    birds I saw the other day skimming across the sky,—one after the other.”
                These were the passage?birds—the only living creatures that ever crossed the
                    lonely plain; and he had been much interested in them, wondering whence they
                    came and whither they were going.
                “How nice it must be to be a bird. If legs are no good, why cannot one have
                    wings? People have wings when they die—perhaps: I wish I were dead, that I do. I
                    am so tired, so tired; and nobody cares for me. Nobody ever did care for me,
                    except perhaps my godmother. Godmother, dear, have you quite forsaken me?”
                He stretched himself wearily, gathered himself
                    up, and dropped his head upon his hands; as he did so, he felt somebody kiss him
                    at the back of his neck, and, turning, found that he was resting, not on the
                    sofa pillows, but on a warm shoulder—that of the little old woman clothed in
                    grey.
                How glad he was to see her! How he looked into her kind eyes and felt her hands,
                    to see if she were all real and alive! then put both his arms round her neck,
                    and kissed her as if he would never have done kissing!
                “Stop, stop!” cried she, pretending to be
                    smothered. “I see you have not forgotten my teachings. Kissing is a good
                    thing—in moderation. Only just let me have breath to speak one word.”
                “A dozen!” he said.
                “Well, then, tell me all that has happened to you since I saw you—or, rather,
                    since you saw me, which is quite a different thing.”
                “Nothing has happened—nothing ever does happen to me,” answered the Prince
                    dolefully.
                “And are you very dull, my boy?”
                “So dull, that I was just thinking whether I could not jump down to the bottom of
                    the tower like my white kitten.”
                “Don’t do that, not being a white kitten.”
                “I wish I were!—I wish I were anything but what I am!”
                “And you can’t make yourself any different, nor can I do it either. You must be
                    content to stay just what you are.”
                The little old woman said this—very firmly, but gently, too—with her arms round
                    his neck and her lips on his forehead. It was the first time the boy had ever heard any one talk like this, and he looked
                    up in surprise—but not in pain, for her sweet manner softened the hardness of
                    her words.
                “Now, my prince,—for you are a prince, and must behave as such,—let us see what
                    we can do; how much I can do for you, or show you how to do for yourself. Where
                    is your travelling?cloak?”
                Prince Dolor blushed extremely. “I—I put it away in the cupboard; I suppose it is
                    there still.”
                “You have never used it; you dislike it?”
                He hesitated, not wishing to be impolite. “Don’t you think it’s—just a little old
                    and shabby for a prince?”
                The old woman laughed—long and loud, though very sweetly.
                “Prince, indeed! Why, if all the princes in the world craved for it, they
                    couldn’t get it, unless I gave it them. Old and shabby! It’s the most valuable
                    thing imaginable! Very few ever have it; but I thought I would give it to you,
                    because—because you are different from other people.”
                “Am I?” said the Prince, and looked first with
                    curiosity, then with a sort of anxiety, into his godmother’s face, which was sad
                    and grave, with slow tears beginning to steal down.
                She touched his poor little legs. “These are not like those of other little
                    boys.”
                “Indeed!—my nurse never told me that.”
                “Very likely not. But it is time you were told; and I tell you, because I love
                    you.”
                “Tell me what, dear godmother?”
                “That you will never be able to walk or run or jump or play—that your life will
                    be quite different from most people’s lives: but it may be a very happy life for
                    all that. Do not be afraid.”
                “I am not afraid,” said the boy; but he turned very pale, and his lips began to
                    quiver, though he did not actually cry—he was too old for that, and, perhaps,
                    too proud.
                Though not wholly comprehending, he began dimly to guess what his godmother
                    meant. He had never seen any real live boys, but he had seen pictures of them;
                    running and jumping; which he had admired and tried hard to imitate, but always
                    failed. Now he began to understand why he failed, and that he always should fail— that, in fact, he was not like other little
                    boys; and it was of no use his wishing to do as they did, and play as they
                    played, even if he had had them to play with. His was a separate life, in which
                    he must find out new work and new pleasures for himself.
                The sense of the inevitable, as grown?up people call it—that we
                    cannot have things as we want them to be, but as they are, and that we must
                    learn to bear them and make the best of them—this lesson, which everybody has to
                    learn soon or late—came, alas! sadly soon, to the poor boy. He fought against it
                    for a while, and then, quite overcome, turned and sobbed bitterly in his
                    godmother’s arms.
                She comforted him—I do not know how, except that love always comforts; and then
                    she whispered to him, in her sweet, strong, cheerful voice— “Never mind!”
                “No, I don’t think I do mind—that is, I won’t mind,” replied he,
                    catching the courage of her tone and speaking like a man, though he was still
                    such a mere boy.
                
                “That is right, my prince!—that is being like a prince. Now we know exactly where
                    we are; let us put our shoulders to the wheel and—”
                “We are in Hopeless Tower” (this was its name, if it had a name), “and there is
                    no wheel to put our shoulders to,” said the child sadly.
                “You little matter?of?fact goose! Well for you that you have a godmother
                    called—”
                “What?” he eagerly asked.
                “Stuff?and?nonsense.”
                “Stuff?and?nonsense! What a funny name!”
                “Some people give it me, but they are not my most intimate friends. These call
                    me—never mind what,” added the old woman, with a soft twinkle in her eyes. “So
                    as you know me, and know me well, you may give me any name you please; it
                    doesn’t matter. But I am your godmother, child. I have few godchildren; those I
                    have love me dearly, and find me the greatest blessing in all the world.”
                “I can well believe it,” cried the little lame Prince, and forgot his troubles in
                    looking at her—as her figure dilated, her eyes grew lustrous as stars, her very
                    raiment brightened, and the whole room seemed
                    filled with her beautiful and beneficent presence like light.
                He could have looked at her for ever—half in love, half in awe; but she suddenly
                    dwindled down into the little old woman all in grey, and, with a malicious
                    twinkle in her eyes, asked for the travelling?cloak.
                “Bring it out of the rubbish cupboard, and shake the dust off it, quick!” said
                    she to Prince Dolor, who hung his head, rather ashamed. “Spread it out on the
                    floor, and wait till the split closes and the edges turn up like a rim all
                    round. Then go and open the skylight,—mind, I say open the
                    skylight—set yourself down in the middle of it, like a frog on a
                    water?lily leaf; say ‘Abracadabra, dum dum dum,’ and—see what will happen!”
                The prince burst into a fit of laughing. It all seemed so exceedingly silly; he
                    wondered that a wise old woman like his godmother should talk such nonsense.
                “Stuff?and?nonsense, you mean,” said she, answering, to his great alarm, his
                    unspoken thoughts. “Did I not tell you some
                    people called me by that name? Never mind; it doesn’t harm me.”
                And she laughed—her merry laugh—as child?like as if she were the prince’s age
                    instead of her own, whatever that might be. She certainly was a most
                    extraordinary old woman.
                “Believe me or not, it doesn’t matter,” said she. “Here is the cloak: when you
                    want to go travelling on it, say Abracadabra, dum, dum, dum; when
                    you want to come back again, say Abracadabra, tum tum ti. That’s
                    all; good?bye.”
                A puff of most pleasant air passing by him. and making him feel for the moment
                    quite strong and well, was all the Prince was conscious of. His most
                    extraordinary godmother was gone.
                “Really now, how rosy your Royal Highness’s cheeks have grown! You seem to have
                    got well already,” said the nurse, entering the room.
                “I think I have,” replied the Prince very gently—he felt gently and kindly even
                    to his grim nurse. “And now let me have my dinner, and go you to your sewing as
                    usual.”
                The instant she was gone, however, taking with
                    her the plates and dishes, which for the first time since his illness he had
                    satisfactorily cleared, Prince Dolor sprang down from his sofa, and with one or
                    two of his frog?like jumps, not graceful but convenient, he reached the cupboard
                    where he kept his toys, and looked everywhere for his travelling?cloak.
                 
                Alas! it was not there.
                While he was ill of the doldrums, his nurse, thinking it a good opportunity for
                    putting things to rights, had made a grand clearance of all his “rubbish,” as
                    she considered it: his beloved headless horses, broken carts, sheep without
                        feet, and birds without wings—all the
                    treasures of his baby days, which he could not bear to part with. Though he
                    seldom played with them now, he liked just to feel they were there.
                 
                They were all gone! and with them the travelling?cloak. He sat down on the floor,
                    looking at the empty shelves, so beautifully clean and tidy, then burst out
                    sobbing as if his heart would break.
                
                But quietly—always quietly. He never let his nurse hear him cry. She only laughed
                    at him, as he felt she would laugh now.
                “And it is all my own fault!” he cried. “I ought to have taken better care of my
                    godmother’s gift. Oh, godmother, forgive me! I’ll never be so careless again. I
                    don’t know what the cloak is exactly, but I am sure it is something precious.
                    Help me to find it again. Oh, don’t let it be stolen from me—don’t, please!”
                “Ha, ha, ha!” laughed a silvery voice. “Why, that travelling?cloak is the one
                    thing in the world which nobody can steal. It is of no use to anybody except the
                    owner. Open your eyes, my prince, and see what you shall see.”
                His dear old godmother, he thought, and turned eagerly round. But no; he only
                    beheld, lying in a corner of the room, all dust and cobwebs, his precious
                    travelling?cloak.
                Prince Dolor darted toward it, tumbling several times on the way,—as he often did
                    tumble, poor boy! and pick himself up again, never complaining. Snatching it to
                    his breast, he hugged and kissed it, cobwebs
                    and all, as if it had been something alive. Then he began unrolling it,
                    wondering each minute what would happen. What did happen was so curious that I
                    must leave it for another chapter.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                IF any reader, big or little, should wonder whether there is a meaning
                    in this story, deeper than that of an ordinary fairy tale, I will own that there
                    is. But I have hidden it so carefully that the smaller people, and many larger
                    folk, will never find it out, and meantime the book may be read straight on,
                    like “Cinderella,” or “Blue?Beard,” or “Hop?o’?my Thumb,” for what interest it
                    has, or what amusement it may bring.
                Having said this, I return to Prince Dolor, that little lame boy whom many may
                    think so exceedingly to be pitied. But if you had seen him as he sat patiently
                    untying his wonderful cloak, which was done up in a very tight and perplexing
                    parcel, using skilfully his deft little hands, and knitting his brows with firm
                    determination, while his eyes glistened with
                    pleasure and energy and eager anticipation—if you had beheld him thus, you might
                    have changed your opinion.
                When we see people suffering or unfortunate, we feel very sorry for them; but
                    when we see them bravely bearing their sufferings and making the best of their
                    misfortunes, it is quite a different feeling. We respect, we admire them. One
                    can respect and admire even a little child.
                When Prince Dolor had patiently untied all the knots, a remarkable thing
                    happened. The cloak began to undo itself. Slowly unfolding, it laid itself down
                    on the carpet, as flat as if it had been ironed; the split joined with a little
                    sharp crick?crack, and the rim turned up all round till it was breast?high; for
                    meantime the cloak had grown and grown, and become quite large enough for one
                    person to sit in it, as comfortable as if in a boat.
                The Prince watched it rather anxiously; it was such an extraordinary, not to say
                    a frightening thing. However, he was no coward, but a thorough boy, who, if he
                    had been like other boys, would doubtless have grown up daring and adventurous—a soldier, a sailor, or the like. As it
                    was, he could only show his courage morally, not physically, by being afraid of
                    nothing, and by doing boldly all that it was in his narrow powers to do. And I
                    am not sure but that in this way he showed more real valor than if he had had
                    six pairs of proper legs.
                He said to himself: “What a goose I am ! As if my dear godmother would ever have
                    given me anything to hurt me. Here goes!”
                So, with one of his active leaps, he sprang right into the middle of the cloak,
                    where he squatted down, wrapping his arms tight round his knees, for they shook
                    a little and his heart beat fast. But there he sat, steady and silent, waiting
                    for what might happen next.
                Nothing did happen, and he began to think nothing would, and to feel rather
                    disappointed, when he recollected the words he had been told to
                    repeat—“Abracadabra, dum dum dum!”
                He repeated them, laughing all the while, they seemed such nonsense. And then—and
                    then—
                Now I don’t expect anybody to believe what I am
                    going to relate, though a good many wise people have believed a good many
                    sillier things. And as seeing’s believing, and I never saw it, I cannot be
                    expected implicitly to believe it myself,
                    except in a sort of a way; and yet there is truth in it—for some people.
                The cloak rose, slowly and steadily, at first only a few inches, then gradually
                    higher and higher, till it nearly touched the skylight. Prince Dolor’s head
                    actually bumped against the glass, or would have done so had he not crouched
                    down, crying “Oh, please don’t hurt me!” in a most melancholy voice.
                Then he suddenly remembered his godmother’s express command—“Open the
                    skylight!”
                Regaining his courage at once, without a moment’s delay he lifted up his head and
                    began searching for the bolt, the cloak meanwhile remaining perfectly still,
                    balanced in the air. But the minute the window was opened, out it sailed—right
                    out into the clear, fresh air, with nothing between it and the cloudless
                    blue.
                Prince Dolor had never felt any such delicious sensation before! I can understand
                    it. Cannot you? Did you never think, in watching the rooks going home singly or
                    in pairs, oaring their way across the calm evening sky, till they vanish like black dots in the misty grey, how
                    pleasant it must feel to be up there, quite out of the noise and din of the
                    world, able to hear and see everything down below, yet troubled by nothing and
                    teased by no one—all alone, but perfectly content?
                Something like this was the happiness of the little lame Prince when he got out
                    of Hopeless Tower, and found himself for the first time in the pure open air,
                    with the sky above him and the earth below.
                True, there was nothing but earth and sky; no houses, no trees, no rivers,
                    mountains, seas—not a beast on the ground, or a bird in the air. But to him even
                    the level plain looked beautiful; and then there was the glorious arch of the
                    sky, with a little young moon sitting in the west like a baby queen. And the
                    evening breeze was so sweet and fresh, it kissed him like his godmother’s
                    kisses; and by?and?by a few stars came out, first two or three, and then
                    quantities—quantities! so that, when he began to count them he was utterly
                    bewildered.
                By this time, however, the cool breeze had become cold, the mist gathered, and as
                    he had, as he said, no outdoor clothes, poor
                    Prince Dolor was not very comfortable. The dews fell damp on his curls—he began
                    to shiver.
                “Perhaps I had better go home,” thought he.
                But how?—For in his excitement the other words which his godmother had told him
                    to use had slipped his memory. They were only a little different from the first,
                    but in that slight difference all the importance lay. As he repeated his
                    “Abracadabra,” trying ever so many other syllables after it, the cloak only went
                    faster and faster, skimming on through the dusky empty air.
                The poor little Prince began to feel frightened. What if his wonderful
                    travelling?cloak should keep on thus travelling, perhaps to the world’s end,
                    carrying with it a poor, tired, hungry boy, who, after all, was beginning to
                    think there was something very pleasant in supper and bed?
                “Dear godmother,” he cried pitifully, “do help me! Tell me just this once and
                    I’ll never forget again.”
                Instantly the words came rushing into his head—“Abracadabra, tum tum ti!” Was
                    that it? Ah! yes—for the cloak began to turn
                    slowly. He repeated the charm again, more distinctly and firmly, when it gave a
                    gentle dip, like a nod of satisfaction, and immediately started back, as fast as
                    ever, in the direction of the tower.
                He reached the skylight, which he found exactly as he had left it, and slipped
                    in, cloak and all, as easily as he had got out. He had scarcely reached the
                    floor, and was still sitting in the middle of his travelling?cloak—like a frog
                    on a water?lily leaf, as his godmother had expressed it—when he heard his
                    nurse’s voice outside.
                “Bless us! what has become of your Royal Highness all this time? To sit stupidly
                    here at the window till it is quite dark, and leave the skylight open, too.
                    Prince! what can you be thinking of? You are the silliest boy I ever knew.”
                “Am I?” said he absently, and never heeding her crossness; for his only anxiety
                    was lest she might find out anything.
                She would have been a very clever person to have done so. The instant Prince
                    Dolor got off it, the cloak folded itself up into the tiniest possible parcel, tied all its own knots, and rolled itself of
                    its own accord into the farthest and darkest corner of the room. If the nurse
                    had seen it, which she didn’t, she would have taken it for a mere bundle of
                    rubbish not worth noticing.
                Shutting the skylight with an angry bang, she brought in the supper and lit the
                    candles with her usual unhappy expression of countenance. But Prince Dolor
                    hardly saw it; he only saw, hid in the corner where nobody else would see it,
                    his wonderful travelling?cloak. And though his supper was not particularly nice,
                    he ate it heartily, scarcely hearing a word of his nurse’s grumbling, which
                    to?night seemed to have taken the place of her sullen silence.
                “Poor woman!” he thought, when he paused a minute to listen and look at her with
                    those quiet, happy eyes, so like his mother’s. “Poor woman! she
                    hasn’t got a travelling?cloak!”
                And when he was left alone at last, and crept into his little bed, where he lay
                    awake a good while, watching what he called his “sky?garden,” all planted with
                    stars, like flowers, his chief thought was—“I
                    must be up very early to?morrow morning, and get my lessons done, and then I’ll
                    go travelling all over the world on my beautiful cloak.”
                So next day he opened his eyes with the sun, and went with a good heart to his
                    lessons. They had hitherto been the chief amusement of his dull life; now, I am
                    afraid, he found them also a little dull. But he tried to be good—I don’t say
                    Prince Dolor always was good, but he generally tried to be—and when his mind
                    went wandering after the dark, dusty corner where lay his precious treasure, he
                    resolutely called it back again.
                “For,” he said, “how ashamed my godmother would be of me if I grew up a stupid
                    boy.”
                But the instant lessons were done, and he was alone in the empty room, he crept
                    across the floor, undid the shabby little bundle, his fingers trembling with
                    eagerness, climbed on the chair, and thence to the table, so as to unbar the
                    skylight—he forgot nothing now—said his magic charm, and was away out of the
                    window, as children say, “in a few minutes less than no time!”
                
                Nobody missed him. He was accustomed to sit so quietly always that his nurse,
                    though only in the next room, perceived no difference. And besides, she might
                    have gone in and out a dozen times, and it would have been just the same; she
                    never could have found out his absence.
                For what do you think the clever godmother did? She took a quantity of moonshine,
                    or some equally convenient material, and made an image, which she set on the
                    window?sill reading, or by the table drawing, where it looked so like Prince
                    Dolor that any common observer would never have guessed the deception; and even
                    the boy would have been puzzled to know which was the image and which was
                    himself.
                And all this while the happy little fellow was away, floating in the air on his
                    magic cloak, and seeing all sorts of wonderful things—or they seemed wonderful
                    to him, who had hitherto seen nothing at all.
                First, there were the flowers that grew on the plain, which, whenever the cloak
                    came near enough, he strained his eyes to look at; they were very tiny, but very beautiful—white saxifrage, and yellow
                    lotus, and ground?thistles, purple and bright, with many others the names of
                    which I do not know. No more did Prince Dolor, though he tried to find them out
                    by recalling any pictures he had seen of them. But he was too far off; and
                    though it was pleasant enough to admire them as brilliant patches of colour,
                    still he would have liked to examine them all. He was, as a little girl I know
                    once said of a playfellow, “a very examining boy.”
                “I wonder,” he thought, “whether I could see better through a pair of glasses
                    like those my nurse reads with, and takes such care of. How I would take care of
                    them, too! if I only had a pair!”
                Immediately he felt something queer and hard fixing itself on to the bridge of
                    his nose. It was a pair of the prettiest gold spectacles ever seen; and looking
                    downward, he found that, though ever so high above the ground, he could see
                    every minute blade of grass, every tiny bud and flower—nay, even the insects
                    that walked over them.
                “Thank you, thank you!” he cried, in a gush of gratitude—to anybody or everybody,
                    but especially to his dear godmother, 
                        who
                        whom
                     he felt sure had given him this new present. He amused himself with it
                    for ever so long, with his chin pressed on the rim of the cloak, gazing down
                    upon the grass, every square foot of which was a mine of wonders.
                 
                Then, just to rest his eyes, he turned them up to the sky—the blue, bright, empty
                    sky, which he had looked at so often and seen nothing.
                Now surely there was something. A long, black, wavy line, moving on in the
                    distance, not by chance, as the clouds move
                    apparently, but deliberately, as if it were alive. He might have seen it
                    before—he almost thought he had; but then he could not tell what it was. Looking
                    at it through his spectacles, he discovered that it really was alive; being a
                    long string of birds, flying one after the other, their wings moving steadily
                    and their heads pointed in one direction, as steadily as if each were a little
                    ship, guided invisibly by an unerring helm.
                “They must be the passage?birds flying seawards!” cried the boy, who had read a
                    little about them, and had a great talent for putting two and two together and
                    finding out all he could. “Oh, how I should like to see them quite close, and to
                    know where they come from, and whither they are going! How I wish I knew
                    everything in all the world!”
                A silly speech for even an “examining” little boy to make; because, as we grow
                    older, the more we know, the more we find out there is to know. And Prince Dolor
                    blushed when he had said it, and hoped nobody had heard him.
                
                Apparently somebody had, however; for the cloak gave a sudden bound forward, and
                    presently he found himself high in the air, in the very middle of that band of
                    ærial travelers, who had mo magic cloak to travel on—nothing except their wings.
                    Yet there they were, making their fearless way through the sky.
                Prince Dolor looked at them, as one after the other they glided past him; and
                    they looked at him—those pretty swallows, with their changing necks and bright
                    eyes—as if wondering to meet in mid?air such an extraordinary sort of bird.
                “Oh, I wish I were going with you, you lovely creatures! I’m getting so tired of
                    this dull plain, and the dreary and lonely tower. I do so want to see the world!
                    Pretty swallows, dear swallows! tell me what it looks like—the beautiful,
                    wonderful world!”
                But the swallows flew past him—steadily, slowly pursuing their course as if
                    inside each little head had been a mariner’s compass, to guide them safe over
                    land and sea, direct to the place where they wished to go.
                
                The boy looked after them with envy. For a long time he followed with his eyes
                    the faint wavy black line as it floated away, sometimes changing its curves a
                    little, but never deviating from its settled course, till it vanished entirely
                    out of sight.
                Then he settled himself down in the centre of the cloak, feeling quite sad and
                    lonely.
                “I think I’ll go home,” said he, and repeated his “Abracadabra, tum tum ti!” with
                    a rather heavy heart. The more he had, the more he wanted; and it is not always
                    one can have everything one wants—at least, at the exact minute one craves for
                    it; not even though one is a prince, and has a powerful and beneficent
                    godmother.
                He did not like to vex her by calling for her and telling her how unhappy he was,
                    in spite of all her goodness; so he just kept his trouble to himself, went back
                    to his lonely tower, and spent three days in silent melancholy, without even
                    attempting another journey on his travelling?cloak.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                THE fourth day it happened that the deaf?mute paid his accustomed visit,
                    after which Prince Dolor’s spirits rose. They always did, when he got the new
                    books, which, just to relieve his conscience, the King of Nomansland regularly
                    sent to his nephew; with many new toys also,
                    though the latter were disregarded now.
                “Toys, indeed! when I’m a big boy,” said the Prince, with disdain, and would
                    scarcely condescend to mount a rocking?horse, which had come, somehow or other—I
                    can’t be expected to explain things very exactly—packed on the back of the
                    other, the great black horse, which stood and fed contentedly at the bottom of
                    the tower.
                Prince Dolor leaned over and looked at it, and thought how grand it must be to
                    get upon its back—this grand live steed—and ride away, like the pictures of
                    knights.
                “Suppose I was a knight,” he said to himself; “then I should be obliged to ride
                    out and see the world.”
                But he kept all these thoughts to himself, and just sat still, devouring his new
                    books till he had come to the end of them all. It was a repast not unlike the
                    Barmecide’s feast which you read of in the “Arabian Nights,” which consisted of
                    very elegant but empty dishes, or that supper of Sancho Panza in “Don Quixote,”
                    where, the minute the smoking dishes came on
                    the table, the physician waved his hand and they were all taken away.
                Thus almost all the ordinary delights of boy?life had been taken away from, or
                    rather never given to, this poor little prince.
                “I wonder,” he would sometimes think—“I wonder what it feels like to be on the
                    back of a horse, galloping away, or holding the reins in a carriage, and tearing
                    across the country, or jumping a ditch, or running a race, such as I read of or
                    see in pictures. What a lot of things there are that I should like to do! But
                    first I should like to go and see the world. I’ll try.”
                Apparently it was his godmother’s plan always to let him try, and try hard,
                    before he gained anything. This day the knots that tied up his travelling?cloak
                    were more than usually troublesome, and he was a full half?hour before he got
                    out into the open air, and found himself floating merrily over the top of the
                    tower.
                Hitherto, in all his journeys, he had never let himself go out of sight of home,
                    for the dreary building, after all, was home—he remembered no other; but now he felt sick of the very look of his
                    tower, with its round smooth walls and level battlements.
                “Off we go!” cried he, when the cloak stirred itself with a slight, slow motion,
                    as if waiting his orders. “Anywhere—anywhere, so that I am away from here, and
                    out into the world.”
                As he spoke, the cloak, as if seized suddenly with a new idea, bounded forward
                    and went skimming through the air, faster than the very fastest railway
                    train.
                “Gee?up! gee?up!” cried Prince Dolor in great excitement. “This is as good as
                    riding a race.”
                And he patted the cloak as if it had been a horse—that is, in the way he supposed
                    horses ought to be patted; and tossed his head back to meet the fresh breeze,
                    and pulled his coat?collar up and his hat down as he felt the wind grow keener
                    and colder, colder than anything he had ever known.
                “What does it matter though?” said he. “I’m a boy, and boys ought not to mind
                    anything.”
                Still, for all his good?will, by?and?by, he began to shiver exceedingly; also, he
                    had come away without his dinner, and he grew
                    frightfully hungry. And to add to everything, the sunshiny day changed into
                    rain, and being high up, in the very midst of the clouds, he got soaked through
                    and through in a very few minutes.
                “Shall I turn back?” meditated he. “Suppose I say ‘Abracadabra?’”
                Here he stopped, for already the cloak gave an obedient lurch, as if it were
                    expecting to be sent home immediately.
                “No—I can’t—I can’t go back! I must go forward and see the world. But oh! if I
                    had but the shabbiest old rug to shelter me from the rain, or the driest morsel
                    of bread and cheese, just to keep me from starving! Still, I don’t much mind;
                    I’m a prince, and ought to be able to stand anything. Hold on, cloak, we’ll make
                    the best of it.”
                It was a most curious circumstance, but no sooner had he said this than he felt
                    stealing over his knees something warm and soft; in fact, a most beautiful
                    bearskin, which folded itself round him quite naturally, and cuddled him up as
                        closely as if he had been the cub of the
                    kind old mother?bear that once owned it. Then feeling in his pocket, which
                    suddenly stuck out in a marvelous way, he found, not exactly bread and cheese,
                    nor even sandwiches, but a packet of the most delicious food he had ever tasted.
                    It was not meat, nor pudding, but a combination of both, and it served him
                    excellently for both. He ate his dinner with the greatest gusto imaginable, till
                    he grew so thirsty he did not know what to do.
                “Couldn’t I have just one drop of water, if it didn’t trouble you too much,
                    kindest of godmothers?”
                For he really thought this want was beyond her power to supply. All the water
                    which supplied Hopeless Tower was pumped up with difficulty from a deep artesian
                    well—there were such things known in Nomansland—which had been made at the foot
                    of it. But around, for miles upon miles, the desolate plain was perfectly dry.
                    And above it, high in the air, how could he expect to find a well, or to get
                    even a drop of water?
                He forgot one thing—the rain. While he spoke, it
                    came on in another wild burst, as if the clouds had poured themselves out in a
                    passion of crying, wetting him certainly, but leaving behind, in a large glass
                    vessel which he had never noticed before, enough water to quench the thirst of
                    two or three boys at least. And it was so fresh, so pure—as water from the
                    clouds always is, when it does not catch the soot from city chimneys and other
                    defilements—that he drank it, every drop, with the greatest delight and
                    content.
                Also, as soon as it was empty, the rain filled it again, so that he was able to
                    wash his face and hands and refresh himself exceedingly. Then the sun came out
                    and dried him in no time. After that he curled himself up under the bearskin
                    rug, and though he determined to be the most wide?awake boy imaginable, being so
                    exceedingly snug and warm and comfortable, Prince Dolor condescended to shut his
                    eyes, just for one minute. The next minute he was sound asleep.
                When he awoke, he found himself floating over a country quite unlike anything he
                    had ever seen before.
                
                Yet it was nothing but what most of you children see every day and never notice
                    it—a pretty country landscape, like England, Scotland, France, or any other land
                    you choose to name. It had no particular features—nothing in it grand or
                    lovely—was simply pretty, nothing more; yet to Prince Dolor, who had never gone
                    beyond his lonely tower and level plain, it appeared the most charming sight
                    imaginable.
                First, there was a river. It came tumbling down the hillside, frothing and
                    foaming, playing at hide?and?seek among rocks, then bursting out in noisy fun
                    like a child, to bury itself in deep still pools. Afterward it went steadily on
                    for a while, like a good grown?up person, till it came to another big rock,
                    where it misbehaved itself extremely. It turned into a cataract and went
                    tumbling over and over, after a fashion that made the Prince—who had never seen
                    water before, except in his bath or his drinking?cup—clap his hands with
                    delight.
                “It is so active, so alive! I like things active and alive!” cried he, and
                    watched it shimmering and dancing, whirling and
                    leaping, till, after a few windings and vagaries, it settled into a respectable
                    stream. After that it went along, deep and quiet, but flowing steadily on, till
                    it reached a large lake, into which it slipped, and so ended its course.
                All this the boy saw, either with his own naked eye, or through his gold
                    spectacles. He saw also as in a picture, beautiful but silent, many other
                    things, which struck him with wonder, especially a grove of trees.
                Only think, to have lived to his age (which he himself did not know, as he did
                    not know his own birthday) and never to have seen trees! As he floated over these oaks, they seemed to him—trunk,
                    branches, and leaves—the most curious sight imaginable.
                “If I could only get nearer, so as to touch them,” said he, and immediately the
                    obedient cloak ducked down; Prince Dolor made a snatch at the topmost twig of
                    the tallest tree, and caught a bunch of leaves in his hand.
                Just a bunch of green leaves—such as we see in myriads; watching them bud, grow,
                    fall, and then kicking them along on the ground as if they were worth nothing.
                    Yet how wonderful they are—every one of them a little different. I don’t suppose
                    you could ever find two leaves exactly alike in form, colour, and size—no more
                    than you could find two faces alike, or two characters exactly the same. The
                    plan of this world is infinite similarity and yet infinite variety.
                Prince Dolor examined his leaves with the greatest curiosity—and also a little
                    caterpillar that he found walking over one of them. He coaxed it to take an
                    additional walk over his finger, which it did with the greatest dignity and decorum, as if it, Mr. Caterpillar, were the
                    most important individual in existence. It amused him for a long time; and when
                    a sudden gust of wind blew it overboard, leaves and all, he felt quite
                    disconsolate.
                “Still there must be many live creatures in the world besides caterpillars. I
                    should like to see a few of them.”
                The cloak gave a little dip down, as if to say “All right, my Prince,” and bore
                    him across the oak forest to a long fertile valley—called in Scotland a strath,
                    and in England a weald—but what they call it in the tongue of Nomansland I do
                    not know. It was made up of cornfields, pasturefields, lanes, hedges, brooks,
                    and ponds. Also, in it were what the Prince desired to see, a quantity of living
                    creatures, wild and tame. Cows and horses, lambs and sheep, fed in the meadows;
                    pigs and fowls walked about the farmyards; and in lonelier places hares scudded,
                    rabbits burrowed, and pheasants and partridges, with many other smaller birds,
                    inhabited the fields and woods.
                
                Through his wonderful spectacles the Prince could see everything; but, as I said,
                    it was a silent picture; he was too high up to catch anything except a faint
                    murmur, which only aroused his anxiety to hear more.
                “I have as good as two pairs of eyes,” he thought. “I wonder if my godmother
                    would give me a second pair of ears.”
                Scarcely had he spoken, than he found lying on his lap the most curious little
                    parcel, all done up in silvery paper. And it contained—what do you think?
                    Actually a pair of silver ears, which, when he tried them on, fitted so exactly
                    over his own, that he hardly felt them, except for the difference they made in
                    his hearing.
                There is something which we listen to daily and never notice. I mean the sounds
                    of the visible world, animate and inanimate. Winds blowing, waters flowing,
                    trees stirring, insects whirring (dear me! I am quite unconsciously writing
                    rhyme), with the various cries of birds and beasts—lowing cattle, bleating
                    sheep, grunting pigs, and cackling hens—all the infinite discords that somehow or other make a beautiful
                    harmony.
                We hear this, and are so accustomed to it that we think nothing of it; but Prince
                    Dolor, who had lived all his days in the dead silence of Hopeless Tower, heard
                    it for the first time. And oh! if you had seen his face.
                He listened, listened, as if he could never have done listening. And he looked
                    and looked, as if he could not gaze enough. Above all, the motion of the animals
                    delighted him: cows walking, horses galloping, little lambs and calves running
                    races across the meadows, were such a treat for him to watch—he that was always
                    so quiet. But, these creatures having four legs, and he only two, the difference
                    did not strike him painfully.
                Still, by?and?by, after the fashion of children—and I fear, of many big people
                    too—he began to want something more than he had, something fresh and new.
                “Godmother,” he said, having now begun to believe that, whether he saw her or
                    not, he could always speak to her with full confidence that she would hear him—“Godmother, all these creatures I like
                    exceedingly—but I should like better to see a creature like myself. Couldn’t you
                    show me just one little boy?”
                There was a sigh behind him—it might have been only the wind—and the cloak
                    remained so long balanced motionless in air that he was half afraid his
                    godmother had forgotten him, or was offended with him for asking too much.
                    Suddenly, a shrill whistle startled him, even through his silver ears, and
                    looking downwards, he saw start up from behind a bush on a common,
                    something—
                Neither a sheep nor a horse nor a cow—nothing upon four legs. This creature had
                    only two; but they were long, straight, and strong. And it had a lithe, active
                    body, and a curly head of black hair set upon its shoulders. It was a boy, a
                    shepherdboy, about the Prince’s own age—but, oh! so different.
                Not that he was an ugly boy—though his face was almost as red as his hands, and
                    his shaggy hair matted like the backs of his own sheep. He was rather a
                    nice?looking lad; and seemed so bright, and
                    healthy, and good?tempered—“jolly” would be the word, only I am not sure if they
                    have such a one in the elegant language of Nomansland—that the little Prince
                    watched him with great admiration.
                “Might he come and play with me? I would drop down to the ground to him, or fetch
                    him up to me here. Oh, how nice it would be if I only had a little boy to play
                    with me!”
                But the cloak, usually so obedient to his wishes, disobeyed him now. There were
                    evidently some things which his godmother either could not or would not give.
                    The cloak hung stationary, high in air, never attempting to descend. The
                    shepherdlad evidently took it for a large bird, and shading his eyes, looked up
                    at it, making the Prince’s heart beat fast.
                However, nothing ensued. The boy turned round, with a long, loud
                    whistle—seemingly his usual and only way of expressing his feelings. He could
                    not make the thing out exactly—it was a rather mysterious affair, but it did not
                    trouble him much—he was not an “examining” boy.
                
                Then, stretching himself, for he had been evidently half asleep, he began
                    flopping his shoulders with his arms to wake and warm himself; while his dog, a
                    rough collie, who had been guarding the sheep
                    meanwhile, began to jump upon him, barking with delight.
                “Down, Snap, down: Stop that, or I’ll thrash you,” the Prince heard him say;
                    though with such a rough, hard voice and queer pronunciation that it was
                    difficult to make the words out. “Hollo! Let’s warm ourselves by a race.”
                They started off together, boy and dog—barking and shouting, till it was doubtful
                    which made the more noise or ran the faster. A regular steeplechase it was:
                    first across the level common, greatly disturbing the quiet sheep; and then
                    tearing away across country, scrambling through hedges and leaping ditches, and
                    tumbling up and down over plowed fields. They did not seem to have anything to
                    run for—but as if they did it, both of them, for the mere pleasure of
                    motion.
                And what a pleasure that seemed! To the dog of course, but scarcely less so to
                    the boy. How he skimmed along over the ground—his cheeks glowing, and his hair
                    flying, and his legs—oh, what a pair of legs he had!
                
                Prince Dolor watched him with great intentness, and in a state of excitement
                    almost equal to that of the runner himself—for a while. Then the sweet pale face
                    grew a trifle paler, the lips began to quiver, and the eyes to fill.
                “How nice it must be to run like that!” he said softly, thinking that never—no,
                    never in this world—would he be able to do the same.
                Now he understood what his godmother had meant when she gave him his
                    travelling?cloak, and why he had heard that sigh—he was sure it was hers—when he
                    had asked to see “just one little boy.”
                “I think I had rather not look at him again,” said the poor little Prince,
                    drawing himself back into the centre of his cloak, and resuming his favorite
                    posture, sitting like a Turk, with his arms wrapped round his feeble, useless
                    legs.
                “You’re no good to me,” he said, patting them mournfully. “You never will be any
                    good to me. I wonder why I had you at all. I wonder why I was born at all, since
                    I was not to grow up like other boys. Why not?”
                
                A question so strange, so sad, yet so often occurring in some form or other in
                    this world—as you will find, my children, when you are older—that even if he had
                    put it to his mother she could only have answered it, as we have to answer many
                    as difficult things, by simply saying, “I don’t know.” There is much that we do
                    not know and cannot understand—we big folks, no more than you little ones. We
                    have to accept it all just as you have to accept anything which your parents may
                    tell you, even though you don’t as yet see the reason of it. You may some time,
                    if you do exactly as they tell you, and are content to wait.
                Prince Dolor sat a good while thus, or it appeared to him a good while, so many
                    thoughts came and went through his poor young mind—thoughts of great bitterness,
                    which, little though he was, seemed to make him grow years older in a few
                    minutes.
                Then he fancied the cloak began to rock gently to and fro, with a soothing kind
                    of motion, as if he were in somebody’s arms: somebody who did not speak, but
                    loved him and comforted him 
                        with? out
                        without
                     need of words; not by deceiving him with false encouragement or hope,
                    but by making him see the plain hard truth in all its hardness, and thus letting
                    him quietly face it, till it grew softened down, and did not seem nearly so
                    dreadful after all.
                Through the dreary silence and blankness, for he had placed himself so that he
                    could see nothing but the sky, and had taken off his silver ears as well as his
                    gold spectacles—what was the use of either when he had no legs with which to
                    walk or run?—up from below there rose a delicious sound.
                You have heard it hundreds of times, my children, and so have I. When I was a
                    child I thought there was nothing so sweet; and I think so still. It was just
                    the song of a skylark, mounting higher and higher from the ground, till it came
                    so close that Prince Dolor could distinguish its quivering wings and tiny body,
                    almost too tiny to contain such a gush of music.
                “Oh, you beautiful, beautiful bird!” cried he; “I should dearly like to take you
                    in and cuddle you. That is, if I could—if I dared.”
                
                But he hesitated. The little brown creature with its loud heavenly voice almost
                    made him afraid. Nevertheless, it also made him happy; and he watched and
                    listened—so absorbed that he forgot all regret and pain, forgot everything in
                    the world except the little lark.
                It soared and soared, and he was just wondering if it would soar out of sight,
                    and what in the world he should do when it was gone, when it suddenly closed its
                    wings, as larks do, when they mean to drop to the ground. But, instead of
                    dropping to the ground, it dropped right into the little boy’s breast.
                What felicity! If it would only stay! A tiny soft thing to fondle and kiss, to
                    sing to him all day long, and be his playfellow and companion, tame and tender,
                    while to the rest of the world it was a wild bird of the air. What a pride, what
                    a delight! To have something that nobody else had—something all his own. As the
                    travelling?cloak travelled on, he little heeded where, and the lark still
                    stayed, nestled down in his bosom, hopped from his hand to his shoulder, and kissed him with its dainty beak, as if it
                    loved him, Prince Dolor forgot all his grief, and was entirely happy.
                But when he got in sight of Hopeless Tower, a painful thought struck him.
                “My pretty bird, what am I to do with you? If I take you into my room and shut
                    you up there, you, a wild skylark of the air, what will become of you? I am used
                    to this, but you are not. You will be so miserable; and suppose my nurse should
                    find you—she who can’t bear the sound of singing? Besides, I remember her once
                    telling me that the nicest thing she ever ate in her life was lark pie!”
                The little boy shivered all over at the thought. And, though the merry lark
                    immediately broke into the loudest carol, as if saying derisively that he defied
                    anybody to eat him,—still, Prince Dolor was very uneasy. In another
                    minute he had made up his mind.
                “No, my bird, nothing so dreadful shall happen to you if I can help it; I would
                    rather do without you altogether. Yes, I’ll try. Fly away, my darling, my
                    beautiful! Good?bye, my merry, merry bird.”
                
                Opening his two caressing hands, in which, as if for protection, he had folded
                    it, he let the lark go. It lingered a minute, perching on the rim of the cloak,
                    and looking at him with eyes of almost human tenderness; then away it flew, far
                    up into the blue sky. It was only a bird.
                But some time after, when Prince Dolor had eaten his supper—somewhat drearily,
                    except for the thought that he could not possibly sup off lark pie now—and gone
                    quietly to bed, the old familiar little bed, where he was accustomed to sleep,
                    or lie awake contentedly thinking—suddenly he heard outside the window a little
                    faint carol—faint but cheerful—cheerful even though it was the middle of the
                    night.
                The dear little lark! it had not flown away, after all. And it was truly the most
                    extraordinary bird, for, unlike ordinary larks, it kept hovering about the tower
                    in the silence and darkness of the night, outside the window or over the roof.
                    Whenever he listened for a moment, he heard it singing still.
                He went to sleep as happy as a king.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                “HAPPY as a king.” How far kings are happy I cannot say, no more than
                    could Prince Dolor, though he had once been a king himself. But he remembered
                    nothing about it, and there was nobody to tell him, except his nurse, who had
                    been forbidden upon pain of death to let him know anything about his dead
                    parents, or the king his uncle, or indeed any part of his own history.
                Sometimes he speculated about himself, whether he had had a father and mother as
                    other little boys had, what they had been like, and why he had never seen them.
                    But, knowing nothing about them, he did not miss them—only once or twice,
                    reading pretty stories about little children and their mothers, who helped them
                    when they were in difficulty, and comforted
                    them when they were sick, he feeling ill and dull and lonely, wondered what had
                    become of his mother, and why she never came to see him.
                Then, in his history lessons, of course, he read about kings and princes, and the
                    governments of different countries, and the events that happened there. And
                    though he but faintly took in all this, still he did take it in, a little, and
                    worried his young brain about it, and perplexed his nurse with questions, to
                    which she returned sharp and mysterious answers, which only set him thinking the
                    more.
                He had plenty of time for thinking. After his last journey in the
                    travelling?cloak, the journey which had given him so much pain, his desire to
                    see the world somehow faded away. He contented himself with reading his books,
                    and looking out of the tower windows, and listening to his beloved little lark,
                    which had come home with him that day, and never left him again.
                True, it kept out of the way; and though his nurse sometimes dimly heard it, and
                    said “What is that horrid noise outside?” she
                    never got the faintest chance of making it into a lark pie. Prince Dolor had his
                    pet all to himself, and though he seldom saw it, he knew it was near him, and he
                    caught continually, at odd hours of the day, and even in the night, fragments of
                    its delicious song.
                All during the winter—so far as there ever was any difference between summer and
                    winter in Hopeless Tower—the little bird cheered and amused him. He scarcely
                    needed anything more—not even his travelling?cloak, which lay bundled up
                    unnoticed in a corner, tied up in its innumerable knots. Nor did his godmother
                    come near him. It seemed as if she had given these treasures and left him
                    alone—to use them or lose them, apply them or misapply them, according to his
                    own choice. That is all we can do with children, when they grow into big
                    children, old enough to distinguish between right and wrong, and too old to be
                    forced to do either.
                Prince Dolor was now quite a big boy. Not tall—alas! he never could be that, with
                    his poor little shrunken legs; which were of no use, only an encumbrance. But he was stout and strong, with
                    great sturdy shoulders, and muscular arms, upon which he could swing himself
                    about almost like a monkey. As if in compensation for his useless lower limbs,
                    nature had given to these extra strength and activity. His face, too, was very
                    handsome; thinner, firmer, more manly; but still the sweet face of his
                    childhood—his mother’s own face.
                How his mother would have liked to look at him! Perhaps she did—who knows!
                The boy was not a stupid boy either. He could learn almost anything he chose—and
                    he did choose, which was more than half the battle. He never gave up his lessons
                    till he had learned them all—never thought it a punishment that he had to work
                    at them, and that they cost him a deal of trouble sometimes.
                “But,” thought he, “men work, and it must be so grand to be a man;—a prince too;
                    and I fancy princes work harder than anybody—except kings. The princes I read
                    about generally turn into kings. I wonder”—the boy was always 
                        wonder? ing
                        wondering
                    —“Nurse,”—and one day he startled her with a sudden question,—“tell me—
                    shall I ever be a king?”
                The woman stood, perplexed beyond expression. So long a time had passed by since
                    her crime—if it were a crime—and her sentence, that she now seldom thought of
                    either. Even her punishment—to be shut up for life in Hopeless Tower—she had
                    gradually got used to. Used also to the little lame Prince, her charge—whom at
                    first she had hated, though she carefully did everything to keep him alive,
                    since upon him her own life hung. But latterly she had ceased to hate him, and,
                    in a sort of way, almost loved him—at least,
                    enough to be sorry for him—an innocent child, imprisoned here till he grew into
                    an old man—and became a dull, worn?out creature like herself. Sometimes,
                    watching him, she felt more sorry for him than even for herself; and then,
                    seeing she looked a less miserable and ugly woman, he did not shrink from her as
                    usual.
                He did not now. “Nurse—dear nurse,” said he, “I don’t mean to vex you, but tell
                    me—what is a king? shall I ever be one?”
                When she began to think less of herself and more of the child, the woman’s
                    courage increased. The idea came to her—what harm would it be, even if he did
                    know his own history? Perhaps he ought to know it—for there had been various ups
                    and downs, usurpations, revolutions, and restorations in Nomansland, as in most
                    other countries. Something might happen—who could tell? Changes might occur.
                    Possibly a crown would even yet be set upon those pretty, fair curls—which she
                    began to think prettier than ever when she saw the imaginary coronet upon
                    them.
                
                She sat down, considering whether her oath, never to “say a word” to Prince Dolor
                    about himself, would be broken, if she were to take a pencil and write what was
                    to be told. A mere 
                        quibble
                        puibble
                    —a mean, miserable quibble. But then she was a miserable woman, more to
                    be pitied than scorned.
                After long doubt, and with great trepidation, she put her fingers to her lips,
                    and taking the Prince’s slate—with the sponge tied to it, ready to rub out the
                    writing in a minute—she wrote—
                “You are a king.”
                Prince Dolor started. His face grew pale, and then flushed all over; he held
                    himself erect. Lame as he was, anybody could see he was born to be a king.
                “Hush!” said the nurse, as he was beginning to speak. And then, terribly
                    frightened all the while—people who have done wrong always are frightened—she
                    wrote down in a few hurried sentences his history. How his parents had died—his
                    uncle had usurped his throne, and sent him to end his days in this lonely
                    tower.
                
                “I, too,” added she, bursting into tears. “Unless, indeed, you could get out into
                    the world, and fight for your rights like a man. And fight for me also, my
                    prince, that I may not die in this desolate place.”
                “Poor old nurse!” said the boy compassionately. For somehow, boy as he was, when
                    he heard he was born to be a king, he felt like a man—like a king—who could
                    afford to be tender because he was strong.
                He scarcely slept that night, and even though he heard his little lark singing in
                    the sunrise, he barely listened to it. Things more serious and important had
                    taken possession of his mind.
                “Suppose,” thought he, “I were to do as she says, and go out in the world, no
                    matter how it hurts me—the world of people, active people, as active as that boy
                    I saw. They might only laugh at me—poor helpless creature that I am; but still I
                    might show them I could do something. At any rate, I might go and see if there
                    were anything for me to do. Godmother, help me!”
                It was so long since he had asked her help, that he was hardly surprised when he got no answer,—only the little lark outside
                    the window sang louder and louder, and the sun rose, flooding the room with
                    light.
                Prince Dolor sprang out of bed, and began dressing himself, which was hard work,
                    for he was not used to it—he had always been accustomed to depend upon his nurse
                    for everything.
                “But I must now learn to be independent,” thought he. “Fancy a king being dressed
                    like a baby!”
                So he did the best he could—awkwardly but cheerily—and then he leaped to the
                    corner where lay his travelling?cloak, untied it as before, and watched it
                    unrolling itself—which it did rapidly, with a hearty good?will, as if quite
                    tired of idleness. So was Prince Dolor—or felt as if he was. He jumped into the
                    middle of it, said his charm, and was out through the skylight immediately.
                “Good?bye, pretty lark!” he shouted, as he passed it on the wing, still warbling
                    its carol to the newly?risen sun. “You have been my pleasure, my delight; now I must go and work. Sing to
                    old nurse till I come back again. Perhaps she’ll hear you—perhaps she won’t—but
                    it will do her good all the same. Good?bye!”
                But, as the cloak hung irresolute in air, he suddenly remembered that he had not
                    determined where to go—indeed, he did not know, and there was nobody to tell
                    him.
                “Godmother,” he cried, in much perplexity, “you know what I want—at least, I hope
                    you do, for I hardly do myself—take me where I ought to go; show me whatever I
                    ought to see—never mind what I like to see,” as a sudden idea came into his mind
                    that he might see many painful and disagreeable things. But this journey was not
                    for pleasure—as before. He was not a baby now, to do nothing but play—big boys
                    do not always play. Nor men neither—they work. Thus much Prince Dolor
                    knew—though very little more. And as the cloak started off, travelling faster
                    than he had ever known it to do,—through sky?land and cloud?land, over freezing
                    mountain?tops, and desolate stretches of forest, and smiling cultivated plains, and great lakes that seemed to him
                    almost as shoreless as the sea—he was often rather frightened. But he crouched
                    down, silent and quiet; what was the use of making a fuss? and, wrapping himself
                    up in his bear?skin, waited for what was to happen.
                After some time he heard a murmur in the distance, increasing more and more till
                    it grew like the hum of a gigantic hive of bees. And, stretching his chin over
                    the rim of his cloak, Prince Dolor saw—far, far below him, yet, with his gold
                    spectacles and silver ears on, he could distinctly hear and see—What?
                Most of us have some time or other visited a great metropolis—have wandered
                    through its network of streets—lost ourselves in its crowds of people—looked up
                    at its tall rows of houses, its grand public buildings, churches, and squares.
                    Also, perhaps, we have peeped into its miserable little back alleys, where dirty
                    children play in gutters all day and half the night—where even young boys go
                    about picking pockets, with nobody to tell
                    them it is wrong except the policeman; and he simply takes them off to prison.
                    And all this wretchedness is close behind the grandeur—like the two sides of the
                    leaf of a book.
                An awful sight is a large city, seen anyhow, from anywhere. But, suppose you were
                    to see it from the upper air, where, with your eyes and ears open, you could
                    take in everything at once? What would it look like? How would you feel about
                    it? I hardly know myself. Do you?
                Prince Dolor had need to be a king—that is, a boy with a kingly nature—to be able
                    to stand such a sight without being utterly overcome. But he was very much
                    bewildered—as bewildered as a blind person who is suddenly made to see.
                He gazed down on the city below him, and then put his hand over his eyes.
                “I can’t bear to look at it, it is so beautiful—so dreadful. And I don’t
                    understand it—not one bit. There is nobody to tell me about it. I wish I had
                    somebody to speak to.”
                “Do you? Then pray speak to me. I was always considered good at
                    conversation.”
                
                The voice that squeaked out this reply was an excellent imitation of the human
                    one, though it came only from a bird. No lark this time, however, but a great
                    black and white creature that flew into the cloak, and began walking round and
                    round on the edge of it with a dignified stride, one foot before the other, like
                    any unfeathered biped you could name.
                “I haven’t the honor of your acquaintance, sir,” said the boy politely.
                “Ma’am, if you please. I am a mother bird, and my name is Mag, and I shall be
                    happy to tell you everything you want to know. For I know a great deal; and I
                    enjoy talking. My family is of great antiquity; we have built in this palace for
                    hundreds—that is to say, dozens of years. I am intimately acquainted with the
                    King, the Queen, and the little princes and princesses—also the maids of honour,
                    and all the inhabitants of the city. I talk a good deal, but I always talk
                    sense, and I dare say I should be exceedingly useful to a poor little ignorant
                    boy like you.”
                “I am a prince,” said the other gently.
                
                “All right. And I am a magpie. You will find me a most respectable bird.”
                “I have no doubt of it,” was the polite answer—though he thought in his own mind
                    that Mag must have a very good opinion of herself. But she was a lady and a
                    stranger, so, of course, he was civil to her.
                She settled herself at his elbow, and began to chatter away, pointing out with
                    one skinny claw, while she balanced herself on the other, every object of
                    interest,—evidently believing, as no doubt all its inhabitants did, that there
                    was no capital in the world like the great metropolis of Nomansland.
                I have not seen it, and therefore cannot describe it, so we will just take it
                    upon trust, and suppose it to be, like every other fine city, the finest city
                    that ever was built. “Mag” said so—and of course she knew.
                Nevertheless, there were a few things in it which surprised Prince Dolor—and, as
                    he had said, he could not understand them at all. One half the people seemed so
                    happy and busy— hurrying up and down the full
                    streets, or driving lazily along the parks in their grand carriages, while the
                    other half were so wretched and miserable.
                “Can’t the world be made a little more level? I would try to do it if I were a
                    king.”
                “But you’re not the king: only a little goose of a boy,” returned the magpie
                    loftily. “And I’m here not to explain things, only to show them. Shall I show
                    you the royal palace?”
                It was a very magnificent palace. It had terraces and gardens, battlements and
                    towers. It extended over acres of ground, and had in it rooms enough to
                    accommodate half the city. Its windows looked in all directions, but none of
                    them had any particular view—except a small one, high up toward the roof, which
                    looked out on the Beautiful Mountains. But since the Queen died there, it had
                    been closed, boarded up, indeed, the magpie said. It was so little and
                    inconvenient, that nobody cared to live in it. Besides, the lower apartments,
                    which had no view, were 
                        magnifi? cent
                        magnificent
                    —worthy of being inhabited by his Majesty the King.
                “I should like to see the King,” said Prince Dolor.
                But what followed was so important that I must take another chapter to tell it
                    in.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                WHAT, I wonder, would be people’s idea of a king? What was Prince
                    Dolor’s?
                Perhaps a very splendid personage, with a crown on his head and a sceptre in his
                    hand, sitting on a throne and judging the people. Always doing right, and never
                    wrong—“The king can do no wrong” was a law laid down in olden times. Never
                    cross, or tired, or sick, or suffering; perfectly handsome and well?dressed,
                    calm and good?tempered, ready to see and hear everybody, and discourteous to
                    nobody; all things always going well with him, and nothing unpleasant ever
                    happening.
                This, probably, was what Prince Dolor expected to see. And what did he see? But I
                    must tell you how he saw it.
                
                “Ah,” said the magpie, “no levée to?day. The King is ill, though his Majesty does
                    not wish it to be generally known—it would be so very inconvenient. He can’t see
                    you, but perhaps you might like to go and take a look at him, in a way I often
                    do? It is so very amusing.”
                Amusing, indeed!
                The prince was just now too much excited to talk much. Was he not going to see
                    the King his uncle, who had succeeded his father and dethroned himself; had
                    stepped into all the pleasant things that he, Prince Dolor, ought to have had,
                    and shut him up in a desolate tower? What was he like, this great, bad, clever
                    man? Had he got all the things he wanted, which another ought to have had? And
                    did he enjoy them?
                “Nobody knows,” answered the magpie, just as if she had been sitting inside the
                    Prince’s heart, instead of on the top of his shoulder. “He is a king, and that’s
                    enough. For the rest nobody knows.”
                As she spoke, Mag flew down on to the palace roof, where the cloak had rested,
                    settling down between the great stacks of
                    chimneys as comfortably as if on the ground. She pecked at the tiles with her
                    beak—truly she was a wonderful bird—and immediately a little hole opened, a sort
                    of door, through which could be seen distinctly the chamber below.
                “Now look in, my Prince. Make haste, for I must soon shut it up again.”
                But the boy hesitated. “Isn’t it rude?—won’t they think us—intruding?”
                “O dear no! there’s a hole like this in every palace; dozens of holes, indeed.
                    Everybody knows it, but nobody speaks of it. Intrusion! Why, though the Royal
                    family are supposed to live shut up behind stone walls ever so thick, all the
                    world knows that they live in a glass house where everybody can see them, and
                    throw a stone at them. Now pop down on your knees, and take a peep at his
                    Majesty.”
                His Majesty!
                The Prince gazed eagerly down into a large room, the largest room he had ever
                    beheld, with furniture and hangings grander than anything he could have ever imagined. A stray sunbeam, coming
                    through a crevice of the darkened windows, struck across the carpet, and it was
                    the loveliest carpet ever woven—just like a bed of flowers to walk over; only
                    nobody walked over it, the room being perfectly empty and silent.
                “Where is the King?” asked the puzzled boy.
                 
                “There,” said Mag, pointing with one wrinkled claw to a magnificent bed, large
                    enough to contain six people. In the centre of it, just visible under the silken
                    counterpane—quite straight and still—with its head on the lace pillow—lay a
                    small figure, something like waxwork, fast asleep—very fast asleep! There were a quantity of sparkling rings
                    on the tiny yellow hands, that were curled a little, helplessly, like a baby’s,
                    outside the coverlet; the eyes were shut, the nose looked sharp and thin, and
                    the long grey beard hid the mouth, and lay over the breast. A sight not ugly nor
                    frightening, only solemn and quiet. And so very silent—two little flies buzzing
                    about the curtains of the bed, being the only audible sound.
                “Is that the King?” whispered Prince Dolor.
                “Yes,” replied the bird.
                He had been angry—furiously angry; ever since he knew how his uncle had taken the
                    crown, and sent him, a poor little helpless child, to be shut up for life, just
                    as if he had been dead. Many times the boy had felt as if, king as he was, he
                    should like to strike him, this great, strong, wicked man.
                Why, you might as well have struck a baby! How helpless he lay! with his eyes
                    shut, and his idle hands folded: they had no more work to do, bad or good.
                
                “What is the matter with him?” asked the Prince again.
                “He is dead,” said the Magpie with a croak.
                No, there was not the least use in being angry with him now. On the contrary, the
                    Prince felt almost sorry for him, except that he looked so peaceful, with all
                    his cares at rest. And this was being dead? So, even kings died?
                “Well, well, he hadn’t an easy life, folk say, for all his grandeur. Perhaps he
                    is glad it is over. Good?bye, your Majesty.”
                With another cheerful tap of her beak, Mistress Mag shut down the little door in
                    the tiles, and Prince Dolor’s first and last sight of his uncle was ended.
                He sat in the centre of his travelling?cloak silent and thoughtful.
                “What shall we do now?” said the Magpie. “There’s nothing much more to be done
                    with his Majesty, except a fine funeral, which I shall certainly go and see. All
                    the world will. He interested the world exceedingly when he was alive, and he
                    ought to do it now he’s dead—just once more.
                    And since he can’t hear me, I may as well say that, on the whole, his Majesty is
                    much better dead than alive—if we can only get somebody in his place. There’ll
                    be such a row in the city presently. Suppose we float up again, and see it all.
                    At a safe distance, though. It will be such fun.”
                “What will be fun?”
                “A revolution.”
                Whether anybody except a magpie would have called it “fun,” I don’t know, but it
                    certainly was a remarkable scene.
                As soon as the Cathedral bell began to toll and the minute guns to fire,
                    announcing to the kingdom that it was without a king, the people gathered in
                    crowds, stopping at street corners to talk together. The murmur now and then
                    rose into a shout, and the shout into a roar. When Prince Dolor, quietly
                    floating in upper air, caught the sound of their different and opposite cries,
                    it seemed to him as if the whole city had gone mad together.
                “Long live the King!” “The King is dead— down
                    with the King!” “Down with the crown, and the King too!” “Hurrah for the
                    Republic!” “Hurrah for no Government at all!”
                Such were the shouts which travelled up to the travelling?cloak. And then
                    began—oh, what a scene!
                 
                When you children are grown men and women—or before—you will hear and read in
                    books about what are called revolutions—earnestly I trust that neither I nor you
                    may ever see one. But they have happened, and may happen again, in other
                    countries besides Nomansland, when wicked kings have helped to make their
                        people wicked too, or out of an
                    unrighteous nation have sprung rulers equally bad; or, without either of these
                    causes, when a restless country has fancied any change better than no change at
                    all.
                For me, I don’t like changes, unless pretty sure that they are for good. And how
                    good can come out of absolute evil—the horrible evil that went on this night
                    under Prince Dolor’s very eyes—soldiers shooting down people by hundreds in the
                    streets, scaffolds erected, and heads dropping off—houses burnt, and women and
                    children murdered—this is more than I can understand.
                But all these things you will find in history, my children, and must by?and?by
                    judge for yourselves the right and wrong of them, as far as anybody ever can
                    judge.
                Prince Dolor saw it all. Things happened so fast one after another that they
                    quite confused his faculties.
                “Oh, let me go home,” he cried at last, stopping his ears and shutting his eyes;
                    “only let me go home!” for even his lonely tower seemed home, and its dreariness and silence absolute
                    paradise after all this.
                “Good?bye, then,” said the magpie, flapping her wings. She had been chatting
                    incessantly all day and all night, for it was actually thus long that Prince
                    Dolor had been hovering over the city, neither eating nor sleeping, with all
                    these terrible things happening under his very eyes. “You’ve had enough, I
                    suppose, of seeing the world?”
                “Oh, I have—I have!” cried the Prince with a shudder.
                “That is, till next time. All right, your Royal Highness. You don’t know me, but
                    I know you. We may meet again some time.”
                She looked at him with her clear piercing eyes, sharp enough to see through
                    everything, and it seemed as if they changed from bird’s eyes to human eyes, the
                    very eyes of his godmother, whom he had not seen for ever so long. But the
                    minute afterwards she became only a bird, and with a screech and a chatter
                    spread her wings and flew away.
                Prince Dolor fell into a kind of swoon, of utter misery, bewilderment, and exhaustion, and when he awoke he found himself in
                    his own room—alone and quiet—with the dawn just breaking, and the long rim of
                    yellow light in the horizon glimmering through the window panes.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                WHEN Prince Dolor sat up in bed, trying to remember where he was,
                    whither he had been, and what he had seen the day before, he perceived that his
                    room was empty.
                Generally, his nurse rather worried him by breaking his slumbers, coming in and
                    “setting things to rights,” as she called it. Now the dust lay thick upon chairs
                    and tables; there was no harsh voice heard to scold him for not getting up
                    immediately—which, I am sorry to say, this boy did not always do. For he so
                    enjoyed lying still, and thinking lazily, about everything or nothing, that, if
                    he had not tried hard against it, he would certainly have become like those
                    celebrated 
                        “Two little men
                        Who lay in their bed till the clock struck ten.”
                     It was striking ten now, and still no
                    nurse was to be seen. He was rather relieved at first, for he felt so tired; and
                    besides, when he stretched out his arm, he found to his dismay that he had gone
                    to bed in his clothes.
                Very uncomfortable he felt, of course; and just a little frightened. Especially
                    when he began to call and call again, but nobody answered. Often he used to
                    think how nice it would be to get rid of his nurse and live in this tower all by
                    himself—like a sort of monarch, able to do everything he liked, and leave undone
                    all that he did not want to do; but now that this seemed really to have
                    happened, he did not like it at all.
                “Nurse—dear nurse—please come back!” he called out. “Come back, and I will be the
                    best boy in all the land.”
                And when she did not come back, and nothing but silence answered his lamentable
                    call, he very nearly began to cry.
                “This won’t do,” he said at last, dashing the tears from his eyes. “It’s just
                    like a baby, and I’m a big boy—shall be a man some day. What has happened, I wonder? I’ll go and
                    see.”
                He sprang out of bed—not to his feet, alas! but to his poor little weak knees,
                    and crawled on them from room to room. All the four chambers were deserted—not
                    forlorn or untidy, for everything seemed to have been done for his comfort—the
                    breakfast and dinner?things were laid, the food spread in order. He might live
                    “like a prince,” as the proverb is, for several days. But the place was entirely
                    forsaken—there was evidently not a creature but himself in the solitary
                    tower.
                A great fear came upon the poor boy. Lonely as his life had been, he had never
                    known what it was to be absolutely alone. A kind of despair seized him—no
                    violent anger or terror, but a sort of patient desolation.
                “What in the world am I to do?” thought he, and sat down in the middle of the
                    floor, half inclined to believe that it would be better to give up entirely, lay
                    himself down and die.
                This feeling, however, did not last long, for he was young and strong, and I said
                    before, by nature a very courageous boy. There
                    came into his head, somehow or other, a proverb that his nurse had taught
                    him—the people of Nomansland were very fond of proverbs:—
                
                    “For every evil under the sun
                    There is a remedy, or there’s none;
                    If there is one, try to find it—
                    If there isn’t, never mind it.”
                
                “I wonder—is there a remedy now, and could I find it?” cried the Prince, jumping
                    up and looking out of the window.
                No help there. He only saw the broad, bleak, sunshiny plain—that is, at first.
                    But by?and?by, in the circle of mud that surrounded the base of the tower, he
                    perceived distinctly the marks of a horse’s feet, and just in the spot where the
                    deaf?mute was accustomed to tie up his great black charger, while he himself
                    ascended, there lay the remains of a bundle of hay and a feed of corn.
                “Yes, that’s it. He has come and gone, taking nurse away with him. Poor nurse!
                    how glad she would be to go!”
                That was Prince Dolor’s first thought. His
                    second—wasn’t it natural?—was a passionate indignation at her cruelty—at the
                    cruelty of all the world toward him—a poor little helpless boy. Then he
                    determined—forsaken as he was—to try and hold on to the last, and not to die as
                    long as he could possibly help it.
                Anyhow, it would be easier to die here than out in the world, among the terrible
                    doings which he had just beheld. From the midst of which, it suddenly struck
                    him, the deaf?mute had come—contrived somehow to make the nurse understand that
                    the king was dead, and she need have no fear in going back to the capital, where
                    there was a grand revolution, and everything turned upside down. So, of course
                    she had gone.
                “I hope she’ll enjoy it, miserable woman—if they don’t cut off her head too.”
                And then a kind of remorse smote him for feeling so bitterly toward her, after
                    all the years she had taken care of him—grudgingly, perhaps, and coldly; still
                    she had taken care of him, and that even to the last: for, as I have said, all
                    his four rooms were as tidy as possible, and his meals laid out, that he might have no more trouble than could be
                    helped.
                “Possibly she did not mean to be cruel. I won’t judge her,” said he. And
                    afterward he was very glad that he had so determined.
                For the second time he tried to dress himself, and then to do everything he could
                    for himself—even to sweeping up the hearth and putting on more coals. “It’s a
                    funny thing for a prince to have to do,” said he laughing. “But my godmother
                    once said princes need never mind doing anything.”
                And then he thought a little of his godmother. Not of summoning her, or asking
                    her to help him—she had evidently left him to help himself, and he was
                    determined to try his best to do it, being a very proud and independent boy—but
                    he remembered her tenderly and regretfully, as if even she had been a little
                    hard upon him—poor, forlorn boy that he was! But he seemed to have seen and
                    learned so much within the last few days that he scarcely felt like a boy, but a
                    man—until he went to bed at night.
                
                When I was a child, I used often to think how nice it would be to live in a
                    little house all by my own self—a house built high up in a tree, or far away in
                    a forest, or halfway up a hillside,—so deliciously alone and independent. Not a
                    lesson to learn—but no! I always liked learning my lessons. Anyhow, to choose
                    the lessons I liked best, to have as many books to read and dolls to play with
                    as ever I wanted: above all, to be free and at rest, with nobody to teaze, or
                    trouble, or scold me, would be charming. For I was a lonely little thing, who
                    liked quietness—as many children do; which other children, and sometimes
                    grown?up people even, cannot always understand. And so I can understand Prince
                    Dolor.
                After his first despair, he was not merely comfortable, but actually happy in his
                    solitude, doing everything for himself, and enjoying everything by himself—until
                    bedtime.
                Then, he did not like it at all. No more, I suppose, than other children would
                    have liked my imaginary house in a tree when they had had sufficient of their
                    own company.
                
                But the prince had to bear it—and he did bear it, like a prince: for fully five
                    days. All that time he got up in the morning and went to bed at night, without
                    having spoken to a creature, or, indeed, heard a single sound. For even his
                    little lark was silent: and as for his travelling?cloak, either he never thought
                    about it, or else it had been spirited away—for he made no use of it, nor
                    attempted to do so.
                A very strange existence it was, those five lonely days. He never entirely forgot
                    it. It threw him back upon himself, and into himself—in a way that all of us
                    have to learn when we grow up, and are the better for it—but it is somewhat hard
                    learning.
                On the sixth day, Prince Dolor had a strange composure in his look, but he was
                    very grave, and thin, and white. He had nearly come to the end of his
                    provisions—and what was to happen next? Get out of the tower he could not; the
                    ladder the deaf?mute used was always carried away again; and if it had not been,
                    how could the poor boy have used it? And even if he slung or flung himself down, and by miraculous chance came
                    alive to the foot of the tower, how could he run away?
                Fate had been very hard to him, or so it seemed.
                He made up his mind to die. Not that he wished to die; on the contrary, there was
                    a great deal that he wished to live to do; but if he must die, he must. Dying
                    did not seem so very dreadful; not even to lie quiet like his uncle, whom he had
                    entirely forgiven now, and neither be miserable nor naughty any more, and escape
                    all those horrible things that he had seen going on outside the palace, in that
                    awful place which was called “the world.”
                “It’s a great deal nicer here,” said the poor little Prince, and collected all
                    his pretty things round him: his favourite pictures, which he thought he should
                    like to have near him when he died; his books and toys—no, he had ceased to care
                    for toys now; he only liked them because he had done so as a child. And there he
                    sat very calm and patient, like a king in his castle, waiting for the end.
                
                “Still, I wish I had done something first—something worth doing, that somebody
                    might remember me by,” thought he. “Suppose I had grown a man, and had had work
                    to do, and people to care for, and was so useful and busy that they liked me,
                    and perhaps even forgot I was lame. Then it would have been nice to live, I
                    think.”
                A tear came into the little fellow’s eyes, and he listened intently through the
                    dead silence for some hopeful sound.
                Was there one—was it his little lark, whom he had almost forgotten? No, nothing
                    half so sweet. But it really was something—something which came nearer and
                    nearer, so that there was no mistaking it. It was the sound of a trumpet, one of
                    the great silver trumpets so admired in Nomansland. Not pleasant music, but very
                    bold, grand, and inspiring.
                As he listened to it the boy seemed to recall many things which had slipped his
                    memory for years, and to nerve himself for whatever might be going to
                    happen.
                What had happened was this.
                
                The poor condemned woman had not been such a wicked woman after all. Perhaps her
                    courage was not wholly disinterested, but she had done a very heroic thing. As
                    soon as she heard of the death and burial of the King, and of the changes that
                    were taking place in the country, a daring idea came into her head—to set upon
                    the throne of Nomansland its rightful heir. Thereupon she persuaded the
                    deaf?mute to take her away with him, and they galloped like the wind from city
                    to city, spreading everywhere the news that Prince Dolor’s death and burial had
                    been an invention concocted by his wicked uncle—that he was alive and well, and
                    the noblest young Prince that ever was born.
                It was a bold stroke, but it succeeded. The country, weary perhaps of the late
                    King’s harsh rule, and yet glad to save itself from the horrors of the last few
                    days, and the still further horrors of no rule at all, and having no particular
                    interest in the other young princes, jumped at the idea of this Prince, who was
                    the son of their late good King and the beloved Queen Dolorez.
                
                “Hurrah for Prince Dolor! Let Prince Dolor be our sovereign!” rang from end to
                    end of the kingdom. Everybody tried to remember what a dear baby he once was—how
                    like his mother, who had been so sweet and kind, and his father, the finest
                    looking king that ever reigned. Nobody remembered his lameness—or, if they did,
                    they passed it over as a matter of no consequence. They were determined to have
                    him reign over them, boy as he was—perhaps just because he was a boy, since in
                    that case the great nobles thought they should be able to do as they liked with
                    the country.
                Accordingly, with a fickleness not confined to the people of Nomansland, no
                    sooner was the late King laid in his grave than they pronounced him to have been
                    a usurper; turned all his family out of the palace, and left it empty for the
                    reception of the new sovereign, whom they went to fetch with great rejoicing; a
                    select body of lords, gentlemen, and soldiers, travelling night and day in
                    solemn procession through the country, until they reached Hopeless Tower.
                
                There they found the Prince, sitting calmly on the floor—deadly pale, indeed, for
                    he expected a quite different end from this, and was resolved, if he had to die,
                    to die courageously, like a Prince and a King.
                
                But when they hailed him as prince and king, and explained to him how matters
                    stood, and went down on their knees before him, offering the crown (on a velvet
                    cushion, with four golden tassels, each nearly as big as his head)—small though
                    he was and lame, which lameness the courtiers pretended not to notice—there came
                    such a glow into his face, such a dignity into his demeanour, that he became
                    beautiful, king?like.
                “Yes,” he said, “if you desire it, I will be your king. And I will do my best to
                    make my people happy.”
                Then there arose, from inside and outside the tower, such a shout as never yet
                    was heard across the lonely plain.
                Prince Dolor shrank a little from the deafening sound. “How shall I be able to
                    rule all this great people? You forget, my lords, that I am only a little boy
                    still.”
                “Not so very little,” was the respectful answer. “We have searched in the
                    records, and found that your Royal Highness—your Majesty, I mean—is precisely
                    fifteen years old.”
                
                “Am I?” said Prince Dolor; and his first thought was a thoroughly childish
                    pleasure that he should now have a birthday, with a whole nation to keep it.
                    Then he remembered that his childish days were done. He was a monarch now. Even
                    his nurse, to whom, the moment he saw her, he had held out his hand, kissed it
                    reverently, and called him ceremoniously “his Majesty the King.”
                “A king must be always a king, I suppose,” said he half sadly, when, the
                    ceremonies over, he had been left to himself for just ten minutes, to put off
                    his boy’s clothes and be re?attired in magnificent robes, before he was conveyed
                    away from his tower to the Royal Palace.
                He could take nothing with him; indeed, he soon saw that, however politely they
                    spoke, they would not allow him to take anything. If he was to be their king, he
                    must give up his old life for ever. So he looked with tender farewell on his old
                    books, old toys, the furniture he knew so well, and the familiar plain in all
                    its levelness, ugly yet pleasant, simply because it was familiar.
                
                “It will be a new life in a new world,” said he to himself; “but I’ll remember
                    the old things still. And, oh! if before I go, I could but once see my dear old
                    godmother.”
                While he spoke, he had laid himself down on the bed for a minute or two, rather
                    tired with his grandeur, and confused by the noise of the trumpets which kept
                    playing incessantly down below. He gazed, half sadly, up to the skylight, whence
                    there came pouring a stream of sun?rays, with innumerable motes floating there,
                    like a bridge thrown between heaven and earth. Sliding down it, as if she had
                    been made of air, came the little old woman in grey.
                So beautiful looked she—old as she was—that Prince Dolor was at first quite
                    startled by the apparition. Then he held out his arms in eager delight.
                “Oh, godmother, you have not forsaken me!”
                “Not at all, my son. You may not have seen me, but I have seen you many a
                    time.”
                “How?”
                “O, never mind. I can turn into anything I
                    please, you know. And I have been a bear?skin rug, and a crystal goblet—and
                    sometimes I have changed from inanimate to animate nature, put on feathers, and
                    made myself very comfortable as a bird.”
                “Ha!” laughed the prince, a new light breaking in upon him as he caught the
                    infection of her tone, lively and mischievous. “Ha! ha! a lark, for
                    instance?”
                “Or a magpie,” answered she, with a capital imitation of Mistress Mag’s croaky
                    voice. “Do you suppose I am always sentimental, and never funny?—If anything
                    makes you happy, gay or grave, don’t you think it is more than likely to come
                    through your old godmother?”
                “I believe that,” said the boy tenderly, holding out his arms. They clasped one
                    another in a close embrace.
                Suddenly Prince Dolor looked very anxious. “You will not leave me now that I am a
                    king? Otherwise I had rather not be a king at all. Promise never to forsake
                    me?”
                
                The little old woman laughed gayly. “Forsake you? that is impossible. But it is
                    just possible you may forsake me. Not probable though. Your mother never did,
                    and she was a queen. The sweetest queen in all the world was the lady
                    Dolorez.”
                “Tell me about her,” said the boy eagerly. “As I get older I think I can
                    understand more. Do tell me.”
                “Not now. You couldn’t hear me for the trumpets and the shouting. But when you
                    are come to the palace, ask for a long?closed upper room, which looks out upon
                    the Beautiful Mountains; open it and take it for your own. Whenever you go there
                    you will always find me, and we will talk together about all sorts of
                    things.”
                “And about my mother?”
                The little old woman nodded—and kept nodding and smiling to herself many times,
                    as the boy repeated over and over again the sweet words he had never known or
                    understood—“my mother—my mother.”
                
                “Now I must go,” said she, as the trumpets blared louder and louder, and the
                    shouts of the people showed that they would not endure any delay. “Good?bye,
                    Good?bye! Open the window and out I fly.”
                Prince Dolor repeated gaily the musical rhyme—but all the while tried to hold his
                    godmother fast.
                Vain, vain!—for the moment that a knocking was heard at his door the sun went
                    behind a cloud, the bright stream of dancing motes vanished, and the little old
                    woman with them—he knew not where.
                So Prince Dolor quitted his tower—which he had entered so mournfully and
                    ignominiously, as a little helpless baby carried in the deaf?mute’s arms—quitted
                    it as the great King of Nomansland.
                The only thing he took away with him was something so insignificant, that none of
                    the lords, gentlemen, and soldiers who escorted him with such triumphant
                    splendor could possibly notice it—a tiny bundle, which he had found lying on the
                    floor just where the bridge of sunbeams had rested. At once he had pounced upon
                    it, and thrust it secretly into his bosom,
                    where it dwindled into such small proportions, that it might have been taken for
                    a mere chest?comforter—a bit of flannel—or an old pocket?handkerchief!
                It was his travelling?cloak.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                DID Prince Dolor become a great king? Was he, though little more than a
                    boy, “the father of his people,” as all kings ought to be? Did his reign last
                    long—long and happy?—and what were the principal events of it, as chronicled in
                    the history of Nomansland?
                Why, if I were to answer all these questions I should have to write another book.
                    And I’m tired, children, tired—as grown?up people sometimes are; though not
                    always with play. (Besides, I have a small person belonging to me, who, though
                    she likes extremely to listen to the word?of?mouth story of this book, grumbles
                    much at the writing of it, and has run about the house clapping her hands with
                    joy when mamma told her that it was nearly finished. But that is neither here
                    nor there.)
                
                I have related as well as I could, the history of Prince Dolor, but with the
                    history of Nomansland I am as yet unacquainted. If anybody knows it, perhaps he
                    or she will kindly write it all down in another book. But mine is done.
                However, of this I am sure, that Prince Dolor made an excellent king. Nobody ever
                    does anything less well, not even the commonest duty of common daily life, for
                    having such a godmother as the little old woman clothed in grey, whose name
                    is—well, I leave you to guess. Nor, I think, is anybody less good, less capable
                    of both work and enjoyment in after life, for having been a little unhappy in
                    his youth, as the Prince had been.
                I cannot take upon myself to say that he was always happy now—who is?—or that he
                    had no cares; just show me the person who is quite free from them! But, whenever
                    people worried and bothered him—as they did sometimes, with state etiquette,
                    state squabbles, and the like, setting up themselves and pulling down their
                    neighbours—he would take refuge in that upper room which looked out on the
                    Beautiful Mountains, and laying his head on
                    his godmother’s shoulder, become calmed and at rest.
                Also, she helped him out of any difficulty which now and then occurred—for there
                    never was such a wise old woman. When the people of Nomansland raised the
                    alarm—as sometimes they did—for what people can exist without a little
                    fault?finding?—and began to cry out, “Unhappy is the nation whose king is a
                    child,” she would say to him gently, “You are a child. Accept the fact. Be
                    humble—be teachable. Lean upon the wisdom of others till you have gained your
                    own.”
                He did so. He learned how to take advice before attempting to give it, to obey
                    before he could righteously command. He assembled round him all the good and
                    wise of his kingdom—laid all its affairs before them, and was guided by their
                    opinions until he had maturely formed his own.
                This he did sooner than anybody would have imagined, who did not know of his
                    godmother and his travelling?cloak—two secret blessings, which, though many
                    guessed at, nobody quite understood. Nor did they understand why he loved so the little upper room, except that it had
                    been his mother’s room, from the window of which, as people remembered now, she
                    had used to sit for hours watching the Beautiful Mountains.
                Out of that window he used to fly—not very often; as he grew older, the labours
                    of state prevented the frequent use of his travelling?cloak; still he did use it
                    sometimes. Only now it was less for his own pleasure and amusement than to see
                    something, or investigate something, for the good of the country. But he prized
                    his godmother’s gift as dearly as ever. It was a comfort to him in all his
                    vexations; an enhancement of all his joys. It made him almost forget his
                    lameness—which was never cured.
                However, the cruel things which had been once foreboded of him did not happen.
                    His misfortune was not such a heavy one after all. It proved to be much less
                    inconvenience, even to himself, than had been feared. A council of eminent
                    surgeons and mechanicians invented for him a wonderful pair of crutches, with
                    the help of which, though he never walked easily or gracefully, he did manage to walk, so as to be quite
                    independent. And such was the love his people bore him, that they never heard
                    the sound of his crutches on the marble palace?floors without a leap of the
                    heart, for they knew that good was coming to them whenever he approached.
                Thus, though he never walked in processions, never reviewed his troops mounted on
                    a magnificent charger, nor did any of the things which make a show monarch so
                    much appreciated, he was able for all the
                    duties and a great many of the pleasures of his rank. When he held his levées,
                    not standing, but seated on a throne ingeniously contrived to hide his
                    infirmity, the people thronged to greet him; when he drove out through the city
                    streets, shouts followed him wherever he went—every countenance brightened as he
                    passed, and his own, perhaps, was the brightest of all.
                First, because, accepting his affliction as inevitable, he took it patiently;
                    second, because, being a brave man, he bore it bravely; trying to forget
                    himself, and live out of himself, and in and for other people. Therefore other
                    people grew to love him so well, that I think hundreds of his subjects might
                    have been found who were almost ready to die for their poor lame King.
                He never gave them a queen. When they implored him to choose one, he replied that
                    his country was his bride, and he desired no other. But, perhaps, the real
                    reason was that he shrank from any change; and that no wife in all the world
                    would have been found so perfect, so 
                        lov? able
                        lovable
                    , so tender to him in all his weaknesses, as his beautiful old
                    godmother.
                His four?and?twenty other godfathers and godmothers, or as many of them as were
                    still alive, crowded round him as soon as he ascended the throne. He was very
                    civil to them all, but adopted none of the names they had given him, keeping to
                    the one by which he had been always known, though it had now almost lost its
                    meaning; for King Dolor was one of the happiest and cheerfullest men alive.
                He did a good many things, however, unlike most men and most kings, which a
                    little astonished his subjects. First, he pardoned the condemned woman, who had
                    been his nurse, and ordained that from henceforth there should be no such thing
                    as the punishment of death in Nomansland. All capital criminals were to be sent
                    to perpetual imprisonment in Hopeless Tower and the plain round about it, where
                    they could do no harm to anybody, and might in time do a little good, as the
                    woman had done.
                Another surprise he shortly afterward gave the
                    nation. He recalled his uncle’s family, who had fled away in terror to another
                    country, and restored them to all their honours in their own. By?and?by he chose
                    the eldest son of his eldest cousin (who had been dead a year), and had him
                    educated in the royal palace, as the heir to the throne. This little prince was
                    a quiet, unobtrusive boy, so that everybody wondered at the King’s choosing him,
                    when there were so many more; but as he grew into a fine young fellow, good and
                    brave, they agreed that the King judged more wisely than they.
                “Not a lame prince, either,” his Majesty observed one day, watching him
                    affectionately; for he was the best runner, the highest leaper, the keenest and
                    most active sportsman in the country. “One cannot make oneself, but one can
                    sometimes help a little in the making of somebody else. It is well.”
                This was said, not to any of his great lords and ladies, but to a good old
                    woman—his first homely nurse—whom he had sought for far and wide, and at last
                    found in her cottage among the Beautiful Mountains. He sent for her to visit him
                    once a year, and treated her with great honour until she died. He was equally kind, though somewhat less
                    tender, to his other nurse, who, after receiving her pardon, returned to her
                    native town and grew into a great lady, and I hope a good one. But as she was so
                    grand a personage now, any little faults she had did not show.
                Thus King Dolor’s reign passed, year after year, long and prosperous. Whether he
                    was happy—“as happy as a king”—is a question no human being can decide. But I
                    think he was, because he had the power of making everybody about him happy, and
                    did it too; also because he was his godmother’s godson, and could shut himself
                    up with her whenever he liked, in that quiet little room in view of the
                    Beautiful Mountains, which nobody else ever saw or cared to see. They were too
                    far off, and the city lay so low. But there they were, all the time. No change
                    ever came to them; and I think, at any day throughout his long reign, the King
                    would sooner have lost his crown than have lost sight of the Beautiful
                    Mountains.
                In course of time, when the little prince, his
                    cousin, was grown into a tall young man, capable of all the duties of a man, his
                    Majesty did one of the most extraordinary acts ever known in a sovereign beloved
                    by his people and prosperous in his reign. He announced that he wished to invest
                    his heir with the royal purple—at any rate, for a time—while he himself went
                    away on a distant journey, whither he had long desired to go.
                Everybody marveled, but nobody opposed him. Who could oppose the good King, who
                    was not a young king now? And besides, the nation had a great admiration for the
                    young Regent—and possibly a lurking pleasure in change.
                So there was fixed a day, when all the people whom it would hold, assembled in
                    the great square of the capital, to see the young prince installed solemnly in
                    his new duties, and undertaking his new vows. He was a very fine young fellow;
                    tall and straight as a poplar tree, with a frank, handsome face—a great deal
                    handsomer than the King, some people said, but others thought differently.
                    However, as his Majesty sat on his throne, with his grey hair falling from
                    underneath his crown, and a few wrinkles
                    showing in spite of his smile, there was something about his countenance which
                    made his people, even while they shouted, regard him with a tenderness mixed
                    with awe.
                
                He lifted up his thin, slender hand, and there came a silence over the vast crowd
                    immediately. Then he spoke, in his own accustomed way, using no grand words, but
                    saying what he had to say in the simplest fashion, though with a clearness that
                    struck their ears like the first song of a bird in the dusk of the morning.
                “My people, I am tired: I want to rest. I have had a long reign, and done much
                    work—at least, as much as I was able to do. Many might have done it better than
                    I—but none with a better will. Now I leave it to others; I am tired, very tired.
                    Let me go home.”
                There arose a murmur—of content or discontent none could well tell; then it died
                    down again, and the assembly listened silently once more.
                “I am not anxious about you—my people—my children,” continued the King. “You are
                    prosperous and at peace. I leave you in good hands. The Prince Regent will be a
                    fitter king for you than I.”
                “No, no, no!” rose the universal shout—and those who had sometimes found fault
                    with him shouted louder than anybody. But he
                    seemed as if he heard them not.
                “Yes, yes,” said he, as soon as the tumult had a little subsided: and his voice
                    sounded firm and clear; and some very old people, who boasted of having seen him
                    as a child, declared that his face took a sudden change, and grew as young and
                    sweet as that of the little Prince Dolor. “Yes, I must go. It is time for me to
                    go. Remember me sometimes, my people, for I have loved you well. And I am going
                    a long way, and I do not think I shall come back any more.”
                He drew a little bundle out of his breast pocket—a bundle that nobody had ever
                    seen before. It was small and shabby?looking, and tied up with many knots, which
                    untied themselves in an instant. With a joyful countenance, he muttered over it
                    a few half?intelligible words. Then, so suddenly that even those nearest to his
                    Majesty could not tell how it came about, the King was away—away—floating right
                    up in the air—upon something, they knew not what, except that it appeared to be
                    as safe and pleasant as the wings of a bird.
                
                And after him sprang a bird—a dear little lark, rising from whence no one could
                    say, since larks do not usually build their nests in the pavement of city
                    squares. But there it was, a real lark, singing far over their heads, louder,
                    and clearer, and more joyful, as it vanished further into the blue sky.
                Shading their eyes, and straining their ears, the astonished people stood until
                    the whole vision disappeared like a speck in the clouds—the rosy clouds that
                    overhung the Beautiful Mountains.
                Then they guessed they should see their beloved king no more. Well?beloved as he
                    was, he had always been somewhat of a mystery to them, and such he remained. But
                    they went home, and, accepting their new monarch, obeyed him faithfully for his
                    cousin’s sake.
                King Dolor was never again beheld or heard of in his own country. But the good he
                    had done there lasted for years and years; he was long missed and deeply
                    mourned—at least, so far as anybody could mourn one who was gone on such a happy
                    journey.
                Whither he went, or who went with him, it is
                    impossible to say. But I myself believe that his godmother took him, on his
                    travelling?cloak, to the Beautiful Mountains. What he did there, or where he is
                    now, who can tell? I cannot. But one thing I am quite sure of, that, wherever he
                    is, he is perfectly happy.
                And so, when I think of him, am I.
            
            THE END.
            PRINTED BY VIRTUE AND CO., CITY ROAD, LONDON.
        
    
