
     ----CITATION----
        Skene, Felicia (1821-1899). The Inheritance of Evil, Or, the Consequence of Marrying a Deceased Wife’s
                Sister. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 242 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (March 11, 1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7062
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
        
            
                LONDON: R. CLAY, PRINTER, BREAD STREET HILL.
            
            
            
                
                    THE INHERITANCE OF EVIL; 
                    OR, THE CONSEQUENCES OF MARRYING A DECEASED WIFE’S
                    SISTER.
                
                
                    LONDON:
                    JOSEPH MASTERS,
                        ALDERSGATE STREET, AND 78, NEW BOND STREET.
                
                1849.
            
        
        
            
            THE INHERITANCE OF EVIL.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                THROUGH the mist and gloom of a dull November morning, a pompous funeral
                    procession went its way along the busy streets of London.
                It was a common sight—so common that it attracted no attention from the multitude
                    who crowded on its path, as with eager care?worn faces they hurried on in their
                    several avocations; and yet it was a strange sight too for them if they would
                    but have thought upon it—the passing amongst them of that quiet traveller to the
                    realms unseen! For so surely as he was even now moving on to the portals of the
                    land which is very far off, they themselves, with their swift impatient feet, were speeding unconsciously on the same journey.
                We say unconsciously, for each one had set before himself some desirable object
                    of attainment for which he toiled that day—wealth, fame, ambition, love—some
                    bright vision, to realize which he gave up unreservedly the redeemless hours of
                    his existence, whilst, with every breath he drew in labouring for it, he
                    shortened the life for which it was to be attained. Yet even as he
                    had done, who was now carried past so helplessly, that his dust might duly be
                    returned to its kindred dust—that living mass of human beings would toil and
                    yearn for their fancied good, till, with strength and energy all spent and gone,
                    they saw the fair phantom of their hopes dissolve in air, disclosing to their
                    view the grave alone—that actual reality for which they had been working! It had
                    been so with him whose rigid corpse now went so still and silently through the
                    noise and turmoil of the world he had loved.
                Mr. Maynard had been a wealthy city merchant; in early youth he had been thrown
                    on his own resources, penniless, and well nigh friendless. He was a man resolute
                    of will, and of good abilities; but his mind, having never been directed to the
                    Unseen Truths, had fixed itself entirely on the fleeting realities of this
                        life. He looked keenly into his own
                    position, and he perceived that, in this world, wealth is the one thing needful.
                    He therefore determined to attain it.
                From that time his life was given up to this object only. He toiled, he slaved,
                    he speculated; he rose up early, and late took rest; he ate the bread of
                    carefulness; he wasted lavishly his health and strength and intellect; he
                    devoured widows’ houses, and made the orphan desolate: for as his desire
                    strengthened till he grew to be its very slave, he cared little for the injury
                    done to others in its accomplishment—and he succeeded. Man has a mighty power in
                    working out a resolute purpose, be it for good or evil, if his whole soul is
                    concentrated upon it. Mr. Maynard became rich, beyond what he had ever hoped for
                    when he set out on his pilgrimage to the shrine of his god, Mammon; but still he
                    laboured on, plunging into speculation, for to make money was the aim and end of
                    his existence, and he could not stop now. Some dim vision may have been before
                    him of a luxurious retirement hereafter, where he should dwell, surrounded by
                    all the splendour and comfort wealth could procure him; but his health failed
                    him meantime, sacrificed to his laborious and unremitting industry. Death came
                    and took him when his soul was so wrapped up in the  cares of life, that this tremendous reality was to
                    him but a far?off haunting shadow, too distant and uncertain to be heeded. Death
                    came and took him, and then it was found that he had gained but one thing with
                    the toil and labour and sacrifice of his whole life; he had earned for himself
                    the gorgeous monument whose ponderous bulk was henceforth to weigh down upon his
                    mouldering remains. To the last hour of his existence he worked like a slave,
                    and this was the sole fruit he reaped from his labours—the costly tomb, wherein
                    his worn and wasted body would fall perhaps a little less quickly to decay than
                    in some green churchyard of holier and humbler aspect.
                Mr. Maynard left two daughters. He had married somewhat late in life, for the
                    sole purpose of connecting himself with the father of his bride, the head of a
                    great mercantile house. It was his desire to succeed to this man’s position at
                    his death, and this wish was fulfilled.
                A very few years had passed away, and his wife died. Neglected, though
                    uncomplaining, she perished for want of sympathy and affection, as flowers fade
                    when deprived of air and sunshine. Her little daughters were given up to the
                    care of nurses and governesses, and Mr. Maynard required, not unfrequently, to
                    be reminded of their existence.
                
                If he remembered them at all in his dying hour, so appalling in its suddenness,
                    it must have been with a pang of remorse, for he had made no provision for
                    them—not from wilful neglect, but simply because he never thought of death at
                    all; it was a contingency which did not enter into his speculations.
                He left no will, and the management of his affairs naturally devolved on his
                    partner, Mr. Hardman. By some process of calculation peculiar to himself, this
                    gentleman discovered that all which remained of Mr. Maynard’s capital must now
                    become merged in that of the house. His speculations had in fact ruined him, and
                    the rich man’s orphan children did not inherit from him so much as the cost of
                    that same stately tombstone which Mr. Hardman deemed it his duty to erect over
                    his grave.
                Some little property Elizabeth and Agnes Maynard had received at their mother’s
                    death, and this circumstance had induced Mr. Hardman voluntarily to constitute
                    himself their guardian. To do him justice, he was certainly in some degree
                    influenced in his decision by the glimmerings of better feeling, which shone
                    through this worldly man’s profound and inherent selfishness when he thought of
                    the desolate condition of his partner’s daughters.
                They sat together now in the darkened room  from
                    which their father’s coffin had been carried an hour before, and both were in
                    bitter sorrow. It is a blessed thing, that atmosphere of love which pervades
                    this whole wide restless world, emanating, no doubt, from the unseen presence of
                    Him who is Love, and penetrating, in some one shape or other, into
                    the life of the most forlorn amongst us. Not a flower perishes from the green
                    earth, but the dews of heaven weep over it; not a human being is laid down in
                    the unresisting helplessness of death, but tears are found from human eyes to
                    fall upon him.
                Mr. Maynard had certainly done as little to awaken affection or inspire regret as
                    most men, and yet the sobs of his orphan children came thick and fast, as they
                    heard the tramp of the horses which bare him away.
                But there are two kinds of sorrow with which the dead are mourned, and Mr.
                    Maynard could lay claim to one of them only; there is the natural instinct, the
                    mysterious claim of the ties of blood, which sends a bitter pang through the
                    heart when they are rent asunder, added to that strange pity which we never fail
                    to experience for the powerless corpse stretched out so pale and cold before us,
                    although we know well that ourselves shall soon be laid as cold and pale, and
                    haply the thought is sweet  to us, as that of
                    the evening rest to the wearied labourer toiling in the heat of noon. But there
                    is another far deeper misery which rises up from the grave of the departed to
                    overwhelm us, when it is, so to speak, the soul of him who is gone forth that we
                    have loved; the soul whose superior holiness has been perhaps like the
                    brightness of an angel to our less elevated gaze, whose goodness has won our
                    reverence, whose gentleness has gained our deepest love.
                No such lofty and holy affection as this had bound the soul of the stern
                    worldly?minded man to his young daughters; and perhaps we might rightly enough
                    estimate the nature of the welcome which the departed shall receive from the
                    brotherhood of saints above, by the character of the sorrow with which they are
                    lamented here.
                Had Elizabeth and Agnes Maynard analyzed their feelings in this the saddest hour
                    of their lives, they would have found that they mourned far less for their
                    father, to whom they were almost strangers, than for that bitter sense of
                    desolation against which the warm, loving heart of youth rebels so strongly.
                They nestled close together; Agnes, who was scarce sixteen, and five years
                    younger than her sister, clung to her with a sort of  innocent helplessness, which resulted more from her
                    peculiar disposition than from her early youth.
                She was singularly sweet?tempered and guileless, but altogether deficient in
                    moral courage and strength of mind; as she advanced out of childhood, she seemed
                    only to lean the more hopelessly on the guidance of others, instead of exerting
                    the powers of her own mind; and the prevailing feature of her character was a
                    clinging and passionate tenderness of disposition, over which she neither had,
                    nor attempted to have, any control whatever. Elizabeth had far more depth of
                    character, with an intensity and sensitiveness of feeling which would scarce
                    have been looked for under her outward reserve of manner. Her affection for
                    those she loved was of a nature so profound and exacting, that it had engendered
                    that jealousy of disposition which makes such havoc of the soul that harbours
                    it. As yet this fatal propensity had been little called forth, for her whole
                    thoughts were centred on Agnes, and the sisters had now no other home but in
                    their mutual love.
                There was one circumstance in the life of Elizabeth Maynard which was destined to
                    influence her whole existence, and the recollection of it was busy at her heart
                    even now, as she sat with her fair young sister sobbing in her  arms. She remembered when she was but nine years old
                    how she had been one night aroused out of the sweet slumber of childhood, to go
                    and witness the closing of her mother’s eyes in a sleep yet deeper.
                There is something very awful in the death?bed of one who dies of a broken heart.
                    Death by the judgment of Heaven is a holy, though terrible thing; but the heart
                    revolts from the sight, when His inscrutable decree permits a human hand to sap
                    the springs of a fellow?creature’s life by wanton or careless cruelty.
                Elizabeth still shuddered when she thought of that white drawn face, so young,
                    but rowed with unavailing tears, and the pale lips from which no murmur ever
                    passed, now wreathing themselves into a strange smile of joy at her release.
                    Close to her breast, whence the breath came faint and gasping, the mother had
                    drawn her youngest born, as though she thought the warmth of that little healthy
                    frame could have driven back the chill that was curdling round her heart.
                Mr. Maynard was not there, for the dying woman, true and tender even yet to the
                    husband she had loved so vainly, would not let his slumbers be disturbed, though
                    her heart yearned to tell him how she forgave him all, and loved him to the
                    last.
                
                When she saw Elizabeth by her side, she raised herself up and looked at her with
                    eyes gleaming, even through the shades of death, with an expression of intense
                    entreaty. One care—one thought of earth still chained back that fluttering
                    spirit yearning to depart—it was for the little child who lay in her bosom. With
                    the quick instinct of a mother, she had perceived that the little Agnes would
                    possess to the uttermost that warm and loving disposition which had made of
                    herself so wretched a wife. Another might have cared little for the cold neglect
                    which had destroyed her; and when she thought of all the storms and dangers on
                    that wide sea of life where she had made so sad a shipwreck, she trembled with
                    an agonizing fear for the rosy happy child who slept upon her bed of death.
                She had no hope but in her eldest daughter; for she knew that she left her
                    children friendless—not even their father could be called their friend! For
                    Elizabeth herself she feared nothing; the child was strangely reserved even
                    then, and her mother never dreamt of the strong tide of feeling which lurked
                    under that calm exterior, though she could duly appreciate the superiority of
                    intellect and force of character, which were already so manifest.
                Addressing herself far less to the child then 
                    present with her, than to the woman she was hereafter to be, the dying mother
                    solemnly implored of Elizabeth to look upon her infant sister henceforward as a
                    sacred charge—so long as they both should live she besought her to watch over
                    her, even as she would herself have done, but for the implacable death, which
                    alone could have torn that child from her arms. She required from her especially
                    a positive pledge that no other tie or affection hereafter springing up in her
                    life should interfere with this her earliest and most binding duty.
                Elizabeth had, as we have said, a mind beyond her years; and she knew well that
                    it was no light promise which she gave in that hour, and sealed in the farewell
                    kiss, with which she drained her mother’s last breath upon her lips. She thought
                    of it now in the time of their common desolation, as she looked on poor Agnes in
                    her helpless sorrow, and lifted up the veil of sunny hair that she might gaze
                    into her sweet innocent face. Deeply she resolved that, whatever might be their
                    fate, her work and office must ever be to guard that little one close by her
                    side, and shield her from all sorrow and danger.
                To both these sisters, earth and the things of it were as yet all in all. Their
                    governess had given them what she termed a “religious edu? cation,”—that is, she had carefully instilled into
                    them her own peculiar and most bounded views, on various points of completely
                    minor importance, dwelling chiefly on the great danger of trusting to
                    forms—whilst she furnished them with nothing else, either more or less tangible,
                    wherein to trust;—thus, while the outward semblance of piety might now be fairly
                    ranked amongst the accomplishments she had taught them, they knew far less of
                    the faith, hope, and love, with which if a soul be girt it can battle with life
                    and face eternity, than the infant who smiles in his slumbers to the unseen
                    angelic guardians round him.
                The sisters were still seated together in silence, when the door opened, and Mr.
                    Hardman entered with the slow solemn step suitable to this mournful occasion.
                He had come to acquaint his wards with his intentions respecting them,
                    immediately on returning from the funeral of their father, this being the proper
                    and legitimate moment for such a communication.
                Mr. Hardman was systematic in everything: systematic in selfishness, in
                    covetousness, and in the virtues which he deemed necessary to his
                    respectability. He had as keen a relish for money?making as his partner, Mr.
                    Maynard,  but his toil and labour were to a
                    certain end. He was a man who could judge of cause and effect, and the desire of
                    wealth was not with him a passion absorbing in itself; he sought to make a
                    fortune because it was his will and pleasure to enjoy the good things of life;
                    he knew that there are none of this world’s gifts which riches cannot
                    purchase—not even the most shadowy and unsubstantial, such as the outward
                    respect and consideration of his fellow?men.
                Slowly and surely he advanced in a solid prosperity; gradually he surrounded
                    himself with all that his soul coveted—luxury, comfort, ostentatious splendour
                    for himself, his wife, and his family; and then he set himself systematically to
                    enjoy them according to his previous calculations.
                He was now a man of weight and influence in the city, but he continued to pursue,
                    with rigid firmness, the system to which he owed so much of his advancement,
                    namely, the inflexible determination with which, even in the most unimportant
                    matters, he carried out his own plans and ideas in spite of all 
                        obstacles
                        obtacles
                     or opposition.
                Mr. Hardman proceeded to inform his wards of the arrangement which he and his
                    wife had adopted for them after mature consideration.
                
                Elizabeth was to take up her residence in his house, and become, for some time at
                    least, a member of his family. Agnes was to accompany one of his own daughters
                    to a fashionable school in Paris, there to complete her education. With a cry
                    almost of despair, both sisters vehemently deprecated the idea of their
                    separation; there were but two of them all alone in the wide world, surely he
                    would not part them?
                Mr. Hardman was immovable, and they were too helpless to resist. He had already
                    two daughters older than Elizabeth, and his wife was resolutely determined not
                    to have the charge of more than three.
                Mr. Hardman continued to acquaint them with the details of his plan as firmly and
                    composedly as though they had gladly acquiesced in it. His carriage was to come
                    for them that evening, to conduct them both to his house—the following week
                    Agnes was to go to Paris. He mentioned the sums he would deduct yearly from
                    their little fortunes as payment to himself for their expenses; recommended them
                    to prepare for the removal of their effects from the house they were to enter no
                    more, and so took his leave.
                The door had no sooner closed upon him than Agnes gave way to a burst of the most
                    passionate sorrow, whilst Elizabeth, whose feelings  were at all times painfully intense and strong, dwelt
                    without scruple on the profound dislike to her guardian, which struck deep root
                    in her heart from that hour.
                After a little time, however, she tenderly raised her sister’s drooping head, and
                    said, with an effort at calmness—
                “It is of no use to struggle, dear Agnes; we must submit—we have no home!”
                “No home?” echoed Agnes. “Oh, shall we never have a home again? shall we never
                    find a spot where we may dwell together again, and no one shall have power to
                    divide us?”
                “We know not what may be in reserve for us,” said Elizabeth, sadly; “but most
                    certainly they shall not separate us long: the time must come when we shall be
                    free from Mr. Hardman’s tutelage, and then I will defy the whole world to rob me
                    of the charge which I received from our mother on her death?bed.”
                “Ah! but that will not be for a long time,” said Agnes, sighing heavily. Then
                    suddenly, with all the buoyancy of youth, her expression changed from one of
                    deep despondency to a hopeful joy. “I will tell you how it must be,” she
                    exclaimed; “you must marry very soon, and then we shall have a home together
                    once again: you would take me to live with you
                    always in your own house, would you not, dear sister?”
                “I would, indeed,” replied Elizabeth, with a faint smile at the rapidity with
                    which Agnes’s ideas rose. “If ever I have a home, it shall in truth be yours
                    also; and you may rest assured that I will never accept of any unless you are to
                    share it with me.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                WITHIN a week from the funeral of Mr. Maynard, Mr. Hardman’s plans with
                    respect to his orphan daughters had been put into full effect. Agnes was
                    established at a school in Paris, there to have the natural tenderness of her
                    disposition fostered into a weak and pernicious sensibility, and the romance
                    with which her character was already too much tinctured converted into a false
                    sentimentality, in which she learned to believe it was meritorious to indulge.
                    She was taught to imagine that self?command showed a want of feeling—that
                    self?discipline and self?denial were possible only to those who were cold of
                    heart and stern in character. Life was presented before her in an unreal
                    colouring, which a bitter experience was alone to disperse hereafter; and her
                    young unformed mind soon became imbued with that dangerous sophistry which so
                    much pervades the tone of society in France.
                Meanwhile, Elizabeth was profoundly un? happy at
                    Mr. Hardman’s. His wife was what is called a strong?minded woman, fiercely
                    intolerant of every sentiment or feeling which she did not herself possess, and
                    which for this reason she assumed to be a weakness. Well versed in all the
                    proprieties of life, she was rigidly implacable in her adherence to them.
                One great duty she had placed before herself, the duty of respectability and
                    prosperity, and this she performed with unremitting and unflinching exactitude.
                    Of the gentle charities of home, she knew nothing; the loving sympathy—the
                    tender care—the anxious watchfulness over the comforts and interests of
                    others—still less of that true and beautiful wisdom which remembers always that
                    the sum of domestic happiness is made up of seeming trifles, the little acts of
                    self?sacrifice, the light words and looks of every hour, and takes care to shed
                    round them all, the sunshine of unselfish love and kindness.
                Mrs. Hardman received Elizabeth Maynard into her house because it seemed to her
                    that her husband had given very sufficient reasons why she should do so; but it
                    was no part of her business to love her, or to supply her with that measure of
                    affection which is as necessary to human life as refreshing water to the
                    traveller in the desert. Elizabeth was consigned to a  fate which a mind far more elevated than hers would
                    have found hard to bear—desolation without solitude; she was not even allowed
                    the freedom which might have rendered her position somewhat more tolerable.
                Mrs. Hardman took the most careful and annoying cognizance of her every word and
                    action, and there were few which she did not find it necessary to reprehend, in
                    the arrogance of her own fancied perfection. Elizabeth’s sorrow for the absence
                    of her sister she considered a most childish and ridiculous weakness. Her grief
                    for her father’s loss, after the period of her mourning had expired, was
                    positively improper, as being contrary to all laws of etiquette.
                Mrs. Hardman could not compassionate the follies which circumstances had given
                    her no temptation to commit, and she would have spurned a penitent from her feet
                    with as little pity as though she was never to stand one day in fearful need of
                    mercy herself. Let no one think that the evil of his own soul is to injure
                    himself alone. These peculiarities of Mrs. Hardman’s character had a terrible
                    effect on the fate of the orphans committed to her care.
                The first gleam of sunshine which penetrated into Elizabeth’s most cheerless
                    existence was an event which took place about a year after her  father’s death. One of Mr. Hardman’s children became
                    so seriously unwell, that change of air was pronounced necessary, and the family
                    went to spend the summer in the country. Elizabeth had passed her whole
                    existence in London, where the natural and moral atmosphere are both alike so
                    foul and clouded. The fresh pure air, the bright green fields, the quiet woods,
                    were all therefore so many sources of delight to her.
                Man has a strange sympathy with nature. In the solitude which is filled with
                    earth’s loveliness alone, he seems to lose the sentiment of individuality, and
                    the sting is taken from all personal sorrows; he finds himself suddenly in
                    blessed companionship with the glorious stars, and the fragrant flowers, and the
                    waving trees; and these all seem to call out to him, saying, “Be not dismayed,
                    though thou art sad at heart and lonely; behold, we are the creatures of thy
                    God, and thou mayest read in our beauty of His goodness and loving?kindness.”
                To Elizabeth Maynard it seemed new life when she first learned how deep is the
                    eloquence of the living nature, in telling, by the things seen and temporal, of
                    those which are unseen and eternal.
                There is not in all England a more charming spot than the village of B—, near
                    which her  new residence was placed. It is
                    situated in the heart of one of the midland counties, and the scenery all around
                    it has that fair peaceful aspect which, for the time, blots out from the memory
                    of him who looks on it, all thoughts of the ghastly sin and woe with which this
                    world is haunted.
                There are rich pasture lands, soft and undulating as the green hunting?fields of
                    the Indian’s Paradise; thick shadowy woods, where the sunshine glances like hope
                    on the soul, and the singing?birds make merry with the long summer day; and a
                    quiet murmuring river, that glides along serene and bright as a good man’s life.
                The village itself, although a portion of it is disfigured by the public house,
                    dissenting chapel, and one or two houses of unseemly pretension, is singularly
                    picturesque; little thatched dwellings nestling among the ivy, inhabited, as the
                    prettiest cottages always are, by withered old women most quaint and simple;
                    huge old trees filling up three quarters of the diminutive gardens, and a broad
                    road turning and winding amongst them, every here and there displaying by an
                    abrupt descent a bright glimpse of the far?spreading landscape beyond. But the
                    fairest object of all is the beautiful church, with its old grey tower, and the
                    more  modern portion lately restored, so
                    striking from its chaste and simple elegance of architecture.
                The light within it is dimmed by the thick branches of the great trees that hang
                    over its green and still churchyard, where the long grass waves on the humble
                    graves of the lowly dead. At night, when the moon is high, there is one broad
                    flat tombstone all wet with the evening dew, on which its pure rays gleam with
                    extraordinary brightness while the rest are left in shadow, as though it would
                    prove how even the grave can be made radiant by a light from heaven.
                But the moment when this fair English church is seen to most advantage is at the
                    setting of the sun, when a gush of golden light flows through it from the west,
                    like a path for the angels desiring to enter there; and brightens with a warm
                    glow the stained glass of the rich east window, whilst through the low arch of
                    the open doorway, the evening star may be seen going up into heaven, there to
                    shine with its pure pale light, like a silver lamp burning before the shrine of
                    the Eternal.
                Mr. Hardman fixed his residence at “The Mount,” a fine old place close to the
                    village, which was destined to become the scene of the events here recorded.
                Mr. Clayton, the vicar of the parish, was  well
                    worthy of the pleasant spot in which his lot had been cast.
                He was a noble?hearted old man; a Christian like unto those who of old were wont
                    to manifest their sincerity in martyrdom, and show forth the brightness of their
                    hopes in torture. He had sought from his youth upward to make his life as it
                    were a sacrament, of which the inward and spiritual grace was faith, the outward
                    and visible sign good works.
                Pure in doctrine, uncompromising in practice, his standard of holiness seemed to
                    many whom he taught almost hopelessly exalted; all things were with him resolved
                    into the simple question of right or wrong; he never allowed his feelings and
                    affections, or even his compassion, to interfere with his rigid discharge of
                    duty. From this course, so essentially right, he unwittingly let an
                    error spring up which bore much bitter fruit to himself; he learned to condemn
                    the short?comings of his weaker brethren too severely, trying them by the
                    inflexible law wherewith he judged himself.
                Mr. Clayton had one only child, a son whose birth he had hailed as the crowning
                    joy in his cup of happiness, and at whose hand it was decreed he should receive
                    the full measure of his trial and tribulation in this world.
                Richard Clayton had already grown to man’s 
                    estate, and for him, even now, his father wept those tears of exceeding
                    bitterness which we shed for the unfaithfulness, or unworthiness, of those we
                    love. Many might have thought that he was rather one for whom a parent would
                    have given thanks with joy, for he was kind?hearted, prepossessing in
                    appearance, winning in manner, and generous in temper. But his father saw
                    deeper; he knew that they who are not with Him are against Him, and
                    he saw that other gods had dominion over his son besides the God of all purity,
                    who requires of his children that awful obedience, that they shall be holy even
                    as He is holy.
                There is chaos on the human mind till the Spirit of God moves over it and dwells
                    in it; and, despite these bright flashes of goodness, like meteor lights in the
                    gloom, there was darkness yet on the soul of Richard Clayton, even as once on
                    the face of the deep.
                Within the shrine of his own spirit, where the High and Lofty One that inhabiteth
                    eternity, and yet dwelleth with the contrite and humble, should have reigned
                    supreme, he had set up the idol Self, before whom he bowed down and worshipped.
                    It might have seemed strange that, with his father’s bright example before him,
                    Richard Clayton should so have  loved this
                    present world; but he was the rather scared by the severe, unqualified holiness
                    of the service rendered by that father to his Master; he had no energy of
                    desire, no thirsting of the soul after the living God, which constrains us to
                    claim, without measure, the promise of the Spirit. Weak and vacillating, he
                    would not remember that nothing is commanded which cannot be performed—that
                    there is no limit set to the strength given wherewith to do His will. Outwardly,
                    he had not cast off the faith of Christ; but he lacked the fortitude and courage
                    to take up his cross and follow Him.
                It had been Mr. Clayton’s fondest wish, that his son should follow his own high
                    calling; but as Richard’s character developed itself, he not only abandoned the
                    idea, but he would himself have refused his consent. His child was very dear to
                    him, but dearer still the glory of his God. Not to such an one as Richard could
                    he ever have allowed the inestimable privilege of ministering in the sanctuary;
                    but his son did not desire it, nor was it at all necessary for him to adopt any
                    profession, as Mr. Clayton had succeeded to a considerable property shortly
                    after he had obtained the living of B—, which would ultimately revert of course
                    to his son.
                
                Richard remained therefore without any occupation for his time, which he devoted
                    chiefly to field sports and similar amusements.
                Mr. and Mrs. Hardman very soon manifested a strong desire to cultivate the
                    acquaintance of the vicar and his family, and it was not long before Richard
                    became a constant visitor at the Mount.
                Mr. Clayton saw them occasionally, for he considered them as his parishioners for
                    the time being; but they were singularly uncongenial to himself on all points,
                    and it was some time before he understood the motive of his son’s frequent
                    visits to their house.
                Richard had found a powerful attraction in the society of Elizabeth Maynard. The
                    first feeling with which she inspired him was one of profound compassion for the
                    position in which she was placed. He saw that her young life was wasting away
                    cheerless and dark, unbrightened by one ray of the sweet human love which is the
                    sunshine of this world, and whose gentle influence is mighty in power to still
                    the tempests and the cutting blasts of sorrow which every mortal man shall meet
                    with on his path of life. For her, whose gaze was yet too dim to discern the
                    glory of that Love, to gain one hour of which an eternity of
                    earthly care and tenderness might well be battered, it was in truth a bitter thing to dwell in so chilling an atmosphere.
                Her vivid imagination and warm feelings, having no holier aliment whereon to
                    feed, were centred altogether in the joys of earth, and she felt keenly that
                    desolation of affection which is perhaps the saddest trial this life can offer
                    us.
                Richard had, as we have said, much kindliness of disposition, though weak and
                    unstable in principle. He endeavoured, by his anxious friendship and tender
                    sympathy, to dispel her bitter sense of loneliness; and he perceived that in
                    consequence her whole heart turned irresistibly to him, with all the
                    concentrated strength of that tenderness which had been allowed to flow in no
                    other channel.
                Richard knew that the true and devoted affection of such a person as Elizabeth
                    was by no means a gift to be despised; he could not bear to cast it from him by
                    indifference or contempt, as some might have done; and before the summer was
                    over, their marriage was announced as a settled affair.
                Richard acted on impulse, that instinctive law so attractive to our human nature,
                    by which no man ought to be guided; at the same time he was too essentially
                    selfish to have taken this step had he not been really attached to Elizabeth.
                    His attachment, however, was very dif? ferent
                    in its nature from hers, whose love was too much akin to idolatry. She little
                    knew how frail and uncertain was that good on which she had staked the whole
                    hopes of her existence, that should have rested rather on that sure Foundation,
                    whereon if a man do build, his work shall abide.
                Their marriage gave great satisfaction. Mr. Clayton would indeed have preferred
                    that the life?long companion of his son should have been a more decided servant
                    of the cross; but Elizabeth seemed humble?minded and docile, well disposed to
                    profit by the instructions he would now have an opportunity of giving her; and
                    he trusted that she was one whose soul could not long remain in exile from the
                    only source of life and joy which can satisfy our immortality. He trusted much
                    to her influence with Richard, should she indeed become what he hoped; and he
                    gladly afforded them the means of living in comfort, by making an ample
                    allowance to his son.
                Mr. and Mrs. Hardman were highly pleased at finding themselves thus suddenly
                    relieved of the care of both their wards; for Elizabeth had made it the sole
                    condition of her marriage that Agnes should reside with them entirely, and that
                    she should never be separated from her sister so long as she remained unmarried.
                
                To this Richard willingly agreed, and it was further decided that they should
                    take up their residence at “The Mount,” where Agnes was to join them after
                    having spent some time in London with the Hardman family.
                The delight of Agnes at these arrangements was unbounded, and her letters to her
                    sister were full of such vivid anticipations of happiness for the whole party,
                    that Elizabeth trembled as she read them, with that vague terror which arrests
                    us when we look with too much hope into the future.
                Agnes did not leave Paris for London until the week before the wedding took
                    place. On the day when she was expected, Richard came to Mr. Hardman’s at
                    Elizabeth’s own request, in order that he might be present at her sister’s
                    arrival.
                They were sitting alone together in the drawing?room, when the carriage drove to
                    the door, and Elizabeth started to her feet that she might hurry to welcome her.
                    Before, however, they could even reach the door, it burst open, and Agnes flew
                    into the room breathless with an overwhelming joy, and flung herself
                    half?sobbing half?laughing into her sister’s arms. For a moment neither spoke;
                    the orphans, who had so long been all in all to each other, were together once
                    more, and their happiness was too  great for
                    utterance. When at length Agnes disengaged herself from her sister’s embrace,
                    Elizabeth almost started in astonishment at the change which an interval of
                    nearly two years had made upon her. Agnes was now nearly eighteen, and the
                    childlike loveliness which had always characterised her had ripened into a most
                    winning beauty. She looked so radiant and joyous, that her entrance was like the
                    passing of a sunbeam into the room; her countenance had retained the soft
                    trusting expression which formed its greatest charm, and her eyes had still
                    their candid and innocent gaze.
                Elizabeth turned with a proud delight to present her to Richard, but she stopped
                    short suddenly when she saw his face, whilst an indescribable pang shot through
                    her heart;—her future husband was standing with his eyes fixed on Agnes, gazing
                    at her with a look of the most warm and unqualified admiration, a look such as
                    had never been bestowed on herself! At a moment like this, one of a temper less
                    jealous and suspicious than Elizabeth Maynard would never have dreamt of
                    bestowing a thought on this trifling circumstance; but she was, as we have said,
                    peculiarly sensitive in disposition; her affection for Richard Clayton was so
                    absorbing that her whole heart and mind were bound up in it, and she had not a
                    thought unconnected  with him; she felt indeed
                    that it had most utterly superseded all other sentiments and feelings, for at
                    that moment she could have wished that the fairer and younger sister (her own
                    dear Agnes!) had not been standing by her side, thus to rob her of a single look
                    from one so passionately loved.
                But in another instant she repelled this unworthy feeling almost with horror, for
                    she remembered how, in a very few days, Richard Clayton would hold for Agnes
                    Maynard the sacred name of brother. They twain were about to be
                    made by a most holy ordinance ONE FLESH, and from
                    that hour her sister must be his sister also, in the
                    sight of God and man. Her cheek burned with a flush of shame, to think that she
                    should have harboured for one moment what was in truth an unholy thought; and
                    taking Richard by the hand, she drew him towards Agnes, and prayed him to love
                    their sister dearly for her sake.
                Richard welcomed her frankly and warmly by that title, telling her, with the
                    utmost kindness in his look and tone, that she must teach him the duties of a
                    brother, as he had never known that gentle tie, which is the source of so much
                    true and enduring happiness on earth. He was in fact greatly interested in the
                    orphan sister of his future wife, for Elizabeth had not  failed to tell him of the solemn charge she had
                    received from her dying mother; and the impression made upon his mind by the
                    description of that scene was so great that he was now equally determined with
                    herself that Agnes should find a happy home in his house. Meanwhile Agnes, who
                    was always won in a moment by kindness, put her hand into his with a bright gay
                    smile, and inwardly resolved that she would do all in her power to please the
                    husband of her dear Elizabeth.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                SOME time had elapsed since the marriage of Elizabeth and Richard
                    Clayton; already the spring was brightening into summer for the second time
                    since they had resided at “the Mount;” and the interval had, to all appearance,
                    been a season of unmixed prosperity for them all.
                Mr. and Mrs. Clayton enjoyed the utmost esteem and consideration among the
                    inhabitants of B— and the vicinity, whilst their sister, Agnes Maynard, was a
                    universal favourite. Her peculiarly attractive appearance, sweet disposition,
                    and joyousness of spirit, had won the affection of all to whom she was known.
                        She was at least beyond a doubt most truly happy: happy in the
                    society of her sister, and in the warm friendship of her brother?in?law, whom
                    she had sought to propitiate by every means in her power, in order that the
                    harmony of their domestic life might be completed.
                The birth of a daughter had been no small 
                    addition to the happiness of Elizabeth and Richard; more especially to the
                    latter, who felt for this little infant all that passionate tenderness which a
                    young father so often feels for his first?born child. He was also at this time
                    highly gratified to find that his popularity was increasing considerably; he had
                    acquired greater weight and influence as a married man. His wife and her
                    beautiful sister were much sought after and respected by the leading families of
                    the county, and he soon found that he might take a high position in the
                    neighbourhood.
                And yet, surrounded with all these outward blessings, Elizabeth Clayton was very
                    wretched. Her father?in?law had in vain endeavoured to draw the wandering gaze
                    of her dimmed eyes upward to that glorious Star, on which if a man look
                    steadily, he shall learn to take no heed of the mortal tempests roaring round
                    his head, or the fading of all mortal joys; he had found an insurmountable
                    barrier to all his efforts in the overwhelming and almost idolatrous love which
                    she bore to her husband. The love of Him, who first loved us, alone should reign
                    supreme in the immortal soul, and all other feelings be the rather called fourth
                    by it, as flowers give out fragrance when the sun shines on them; but if an
                    earthly affection, however lawful in itself, be permitted to supersede it,
                    thereby becoming  a sinful indulgence, then
                    does the holier love fade and perish away before that engrossing influence, like
                    the pure sunlight when the night sets in.
                Day and night, waking and sleeping, Elizabeth had no thought but for her husband;
                    watching his every word and look, thinking she never could do enough to please
                    him, and harassing both herself and him by exacting an amount of attention and
                    tenderness which she was by no means justified in expecting. The one
                    overpowering idea which was always present in her mind, was the conviction that
                    his attachment for her fell far short of her own in depth and fervour.
                She was, in fact, very right in her opinion, but this was no excuse for the
                    unreasonable manner in which she wearied him with her repining at his coldness.
                    She should have remembered that there is but one affection that can be of any
                    real value to those who inspire it, it is that love, noble and disinterested,
                    which is pure from the slightest taint of selfishness; which has for its sole
                    object and desire the happiness of those on whom it is bestowed. She should
                    never have allowed her own feelings and desires to interfere in the most minute
                    particular with his comfort. If she discovered that her presence wearied him,
                    she should have  left him with a smile, and
                    with a smile been ready to return to him if he wished it. If he seemed happier
                    while neglecting her, cheerfully she should have submitted to his neglect, and
                    striven only to prevent his home from being ever darkened by a look of sorrow on
                    her face, or its quiet disturbed by a word of discontent. But Elizabeth had
                    sought no other happiness for herself than that which she derived from this
                    affection, and therefore it was profoundly selfish. She was jealous of every
                    thing and every one on whom her husband bestowed a look; and jealous even of the
                    necessary business which took him from her side.
                It was not unnatural that Richard, annoyed and often irritated at her unceasing
                    watchfulness, should gladly turn from her to seek the society of Agnes, whose
                    gaiety and light?heartedness rendered her so pleasing a contrast to the anxious
                    care?worn wife. He never acted under the guidance of principle, but he
                    habitually obeyed a law scarce less exacting, for he invariably followed the
                    bent of his own inclination, without pausing to scrutinize his motives, or to
                    examine into the possible result of his actions. It therefore never occurred to
                    him, that it must have cost poor Elizabeth many a bitter pang to see him so
                    openly preferring the society of her sister; while Agnes, with that careless
                    egotism  to which the young and the happy so
                    often yield themselves unconsciously, was ever ready to enjoy with him the long
                    walks and rides which Elizabeth’s enfeebled health prevented her from
                    attempting.
                Thus, while to a casual observer all was bright and prosperous in the lives of
                    the Clayton family, there was ripening in the heart of her who should have been
                    the happiest, one of those dark tragedies which often run their course in the
                    narrow compass of an individual mind alone.
                Soon, however, the anxieties and fears of Elizabeth took a new shape. Her health
                    began to fail her altogether. She had reduced herself to a very weak and nervous
                    state, solely by distress of mind and harassing annoyances; and now the
                    conviction had settled with a dull dead weight upon her heart, that she should
                    not survive the birth of her second child.
                This idea was in reality but an imagination springing from her morbid state of
                    mind, for which there was not the slightest foundation; but the conviction,
                    deeply rooted, ate like a canker into her soul. It was not death which she
                    dreaded, not the coffin and the shroud; nor yet, chained to the dust as she was
                    by the ties of earth, the awful judgment to come; but it was the horror of the
                    dread which filled her  heart night and day,
                    that when she lay cold and helpless in her grave, Richard would find some
                    unknown stranger, fairer and dearer, to take her place in his love and in his
                    home. To a mind like Elizabeth’s this thought was torture; it haunted her like a
                    spectral phantom: she had loved him too exclusively when living, to give him up
                    even when she was dead; and she longed, had it been possible, to have held him
                    still within the stiff cold arms from which the warmth of life was fled. She had
                    ever before her eyes the terrible image of one more loved perhaps, who should
                    dwell in his house as she had dwelt, and walk by his side as she had walked,
                    honoured, cherished as his wife, the mother of his children. This vision of her
                    brain took a thousand agonizing forms. Sometimes she fancied that through the
                    mould, and the dust, and the coffin?lid, his voice would reach her if he spoke
                    in accents of endearment to another; that, she should even hear the tramping of
                    their feet round her dark abode as they walked through the beautiful
                    church?yard, too happy in their mutual affection to think of her who mouldered
                    there so lonely! And her child, too—her little fragile, gentle Mary, was she to
                    be delivered to the cold unloving care of a stepmother!
                Over these ideas the jealous heart of Elizabeth 
                    brooded with all the strength of her diseased fancy; but suddenly, whilst she
                    speculated on the probable results of her death, a thought occurred to her which
                    brought with it at once the most complete consolation.
                The sincere attachment of Richard to their sister Agnes became the source of her
                    utmost joy and thankfulness; he would never consent to part with her sister, now
                    become in affection, as well as in actual fact, his own also; he would never
                    send her away to a miserable and cheerless existence with the Hardmans: no,
                    Agnes would remain with him to take carevof her little niece, of whom she was
                    devotedly fond; and so long as she continued unmarried, she would prevent; the
                    possibility of another wife entering into the house of which she would be the
                    beloved inmate. This idea gave a totally new current to Elizabeth’s thoughts; it
                    was like balm to her wounded spirit; she could look forward with perfect calm to
                    her death, when she felt convinced that, so far from her place being filled by a
                    rival, Richard and Agnes would remain alone together to remember her, and talk
                    of her often with unchanging love, whilst her little Mary would find in the
                    young aunt the same tender and watchful friend which she had herself been to
                    Agnes.
                Elizabeth had never concealed from either 
                    Richard or Agnes how near a close she believed her life to be, although her
                    natural delicacy of feeling had restrained her from telling them of the dread
                    which rendered this conviction one of such agony to her.
                Now, however, she repeatedly implored of them both to promise her that Agnes
                    should always remain with her brother?in?law; urging as her reason for wishing
                    it, that to her alone would she commit the care of her little daughter, and the
                    new?born babe if it survived.
                Both were very willing to promise their poor Elizabeth all she desired, but
                    neither of them had the slightest apprehension for her life. Their medical
                    adviser was too skilful a physician not to know that her fears were perfectly
                    groundless, and he had completely reassured Agnes on the subject; they therefore
                    contented themselves with soothing her in the mean time, and looked forward
                    anxiously to the period when all anxiety should cease.
                Such was the state of matters at “The Mount,” when Elizabeth took her seat one
                    fine evening in the early summer at the drawing?room window, which was thrown
                    wide open that she might enjoy the soft mild air; directly below it was a smooth
                    piece of turf, on which Richard was slowly walking to and fro in conversation
                    with his father’s Curate.
                
                Mr. Lambert was one of those characters which are, too unfortunately, rare in
                    this world, but of which alone shall doubtless be composed the population of
                    that Holy City, where nothing that defileth shall in any wise enter in: with a
                    powerful mind, and many a noble intellectual quality, he had sought and attained
                    to the innocency of life and humility of heart of a little child, who once was
                    set as an example to the gifted of this earth.
                From the hour when he had received the awful commission for the work and office
                    of a priest in the Church of God, he had, with determinate resolution, set the
                    seal of “Holiness to the Lord” on every action of his future life. Severe and
                    unflinching towards himself in following out this difficult course, he was ever
                    most gentle and merciful to others; winning back to the old paths with sweet
                    persuasive accents those who had erred and strayed, and dealing with penitents
                    in the spirit of that unutterably blessed and touching declaration which has
                    been as the words of life to many a sinking soul—“ Neither do I condemn thee.”
                Notwithstanding his youth, there was a peculiar calm and dignity in his manner
                    which won the respect of all whom he approached; though few would have
                    suspected, from his habitual silence and reserve, that there was in his cha? racter an under current of profound and
                    intense feeling, which he seldom if ever displayed. Careless and indifferent as
                    Richard Clayton was, he could not but admire the pure and exalted views which
                    raised this man so far above himself; and he was always more ready to listen to
                    Mr. Lambert’s remonstrances than to the sterner warnings of his father, whose
                    faith and obedience shone forth rather in the severity of holiness than in its
                    beauty.
                Their conversation was distinctly audible to Elizabeth as she sat at the window,
                    and she soon became so deeply and painfully interested in it that she forgot to
                    ascertain whether they were aware of her vicinity. Richard had asked Mr. Lambert
                    what was the cause of a tumult which he had witnessed that morning at the church
                    door, as he passed through the village.
                Mr. Lambert answered that it had originated in one of those distressing cases
                    which were often a source of so much annoyance to the clergy. Two persons had
                    come before him to be married; they did not belong to this parish of B—, and the
                    banns had been published elsewhere; consequently, it was not until they were
                    actually within the church that he discovered the relationship in which they
                    already stood to one another. The woman was sister to the former wife of the
                    man.
                
                “Of course I refused to marry them,” he added quietly.
                “Then you share my father’s opinion,” said Richard. “I think him quite absurdly
                    rigid on this point. I cannot coincide in the strong objection which is raised
                    against it by so many. Such a marriage might often be a very convenient
                    arrangement.”
                “And a most unhallowed alliance,” said Mr. Lambert, warmly.
                “You will find few to look upon it in that light,” replied Richard; “think how
                    frequently the connexion is made without the slightest scruple.”
                “There is nothing so common in this world as evil,” said Mr. Lambert, with quiet
                    emphasis; “you may give men authority to commit the greatest crimes with
                    impunity, if they are to find their license for it in the practice of others.”
                    He paused, for Richard’s peculiar position rendered this a subject scarce fit
                    for discussion.
                Richard, however, would not let the matter drop till he had very clearly made
                    known his own opinion; he spoke much of the advantage which might result from
                    such an arrangement, in procuring for the children of the deceased wife so kind
                    and natural a protectress as their aunt.
                
                Mr. Lambert replied, that, were the matter viewed as it ought to be, there could
                    be no more reason why the sister of the mother should not remain to take care of
                    the children than the sister of the father himself. Even on the score of
                    expediency alone, he could show the incalculable evil of such connexions,
                    bringing distrust and misery and confusion into the nearest and dearest
                    relations of life; but it was on a far higher ground that he would denounce
                    them, that of being altogether repugnant to the will of God; a fact which might
                    be proved from Scripture, and which had been set forth by the authority of the
                    Church in all ages. It was, in fact, a putting asunder of those whom God had
                    joined in the holy tie, whereby he declared that man and wife were to be one
                    flesh: if there were any meaning in those words at all, the relations of the one
                    must become the relations of the other also, and the sister?in?law be in the
                    sight of heaven counted as the sister in blood.
                Richard could not answer this argument, though he still held to his own opinion;
                    and after a few more remarks from both, the conversation changed. But Elizabeth
                    Clayton had heard enough, and too much.
                Richard little knew what deadly power there had been in his words so carelessly
                    spoken. He did not see, as his voice died away, how a figure  rushed from that darkened room with hurried steps and
                    suffocated breath; he did not hear how the bolt was drawn across the door of the
                    apartment above, by a hand that trembled till it was well nigh palsied; nor the
                    dull heavy fall upon the ground, of a form convulsed by its fierce mental agony.
                One thought alone was present in the mind of Elizabeth Clayton—a thought so
                    torturing and unsupportable that she strove to escape from it with that impotent
                    frenzy which in its full development drives men to the awful crime of
                    self?destruction. She had a RIVAL in her SISTER! The wife whom she had dreaded would supplant
                    her after her death, would be her, who for two
                    years past had called her husband—brother! It was an idea too horrible even to
                    have entered into her mind, had it not been literally forced upon her by the
                    words of Richard himself.
                Elizabeth had not the strong religious principles which induced Mr. Lambert to
                    view it with such warm indignation, but she had that which in this instance
                    supplied their place—the instinctive delicacy of feeling with which a pure mind
                    must revolt from a transaction so opposed to all that is just and holy.
                        What a horrible shade was now cast over the past intercourse of her
                        husband and sister, and the happy
                    familiarity she had herself loved to promote between them! It maddened her even
                    to think of the result which would probably follow on her own death. Instead of
                    living to watch over her children and remember her with unchanged affection,
                    they would remain together in a union condemned of God, and reprobated even by
                    the world itself.
                Had she then, when she gave her orphan sister a home, been but preparing for
                    herself a rival, who would hereafter blot out her very memory from the heart of
                    the husband she loved so well? Oh! surely she had in truth been nourishing a
                    viper in her bosom: but at least it should be so no longer; she would not sit
                    idly by and see another preparing, under such false pretences, to rob her of the
                    love which she would have had her own even in the grave. She started
                    up—Elizabeth was ever violent in her resolutions as well as in her feelings—she
                    went to the door, scarce knowing what she did, strong in one determination
                    only—that Agnes should not stay another day in the house, to rise up between her
                    and the husband whose affection was her lawful right.
                Suddenly, as she was about to draw the bolt, she started and staggered back; a
                    vision passed before her of a scene never forgotten. She saw the pale,
                    death?stricken face; the uplifted  hands of the
                    expiring mother, clasped in passionate entreaty to her the daughter! She heard
                    again that voice, coming so faint and thrilling over the cold lips—
                “Elizabeth, Elizabeth! I trust to you alone! promise—swear that you will never
                    desert my child; swear that no dearer tie shall ever induce you to forsake your
                    charge!” And she heard, as it were, the echo of her own voice when she answered,
                    child as she was, with such a solemn firmness—
                “ Mother, fear not; I promise—I swear!”
                And was it thus she was about to redeem that pledge given to the dead—to fulfil
                    that oath administered on a death?bed?—by driving forth Agnes, that mother’s
                    youngest darling, from her house and home; casting her out into that dangerous
                    and chilling world, where she would be so friendless and alone!
                There was a sudden revulsion of feeling in the breast of Elizabeth; a new horror
                    rose out of the idea of this unhallowed marriage. Was Agnes, the gentle Agnes,
                    so fair and joyous, thereby to become a being unworthy of the favour of heaven,
                    and an outcast even from society? Was the sister for whom she had indulged in so
                    many a bright ambitious dream, reserved for such a fate as this?—a wife disowned
                    both by the laws of God and man!
                
                Elizabeth flung herself down once more with a sort of powerless despair. Which of
                    these two was she to hate the most, whom, until now, she had so dearly loved—the
                    husband, who, by his selfish act, might blight and blacken the whole existence
                    of her only sister; or the sister, who, under that sacred name, had stolen into
                    the husband’s heart, to dwell happy in his love when she was
                    mouldering forgotten in the dust? Her thoughts became confused—her senses seemed
                    abandoning her—the shock had been so sudden. She had never before contemplated
                    the possibility of such a marriage. She had believed it forbidden by all laws,
                    Divine or human; and now, not only was it brought suddenly before her as a
                    matter of frequent occurrence, but there had been an energy and an anxiety in
                    Richard’s manner of expressing himself, which proved that, however
                    unconsciously, it was yet for his own sake that he sought so earnestly to prove
                    the truth of his assertions.
                There is a peculiar faculty in the human mind, which sometimes causes it, when a
                    new and absorbing idea is first presented to it, at once to grasp it in its full
                    extent, in all its bearings—past, present, and future. Elizabeth’s vivid
                    imagination would not allow her to find consolation in the great uncertainty of
                    the evil she dreaded; it carried her on at once to antici? pate the marriage of her husband and sister as the
                    infallible result of her own death,—now, as she believed, so near at hand. With
                    her face buried in her hands, she lay on the ground, wrestling with the great
                    agony of all the contending feelings which this terrible conviction had aroused
                    within her.
                Meanwhile Richard and Agnes sat together in the drawing?room below. “Where is
                    Elizabeth?” said Agnes, at last; “I have not seen her at all this evening.”
                “I really do not know,” said Richard, indifferently; “perhaps she has gone to lie
                    down. She fancies herself fatigued now, whenever she has made the slightest
                    exertion. Do go and sing to me, Agnes,” he continued, flinging aside his book;
                    “this is just the hour when I can best enjoy music.”
                Agnes complied, and in a few minutes Elizabeth could distinguish, through the
                    choking sobs that were bursting from her own lips, the sweet tones of her
                    sister’s voice, as she sang, one after another, the favourite songs which her
                    husband most preferred.
                “It is strange that Elizabeth does not come,” said Agnes, after a time; “she
                    never goes to spend the evening in her room without telling us at least. I must
                    go and see where she is.”
                “Some fancy!” said Richard, in a tone of 
                    irritation. “You had better leave her to herself. I wish she had your sweet
                    temper, Agnes.”
                Agnes made no answer: it had often seemed strange to her that Elizabeth was not
                    in truth more uniformly happy, with so many blessings round her. She left the
                    room in search of her sister; but in an instant she returned, with an agitated
                    step, and a look of terror on her face, usually so bright and sunny.
                “Dear Richard, come quickly!” she exclaimed; “I quite fear that Elizabeth is very
                    ill: her door is locked, and she made no answer when I called, but I can hear
                    her groaning in so strange a manner!”
                Richard started from his seat, and bounded up stairs; Agnes followed. They
                    knocked at the door, and called in vain; but they could hear moan succeeding
                    moan. Alarmed to the last degree, Richard exerted all his strength, and burst
                    open the door. The violent shock, and the stunning noise it occasioned, put the
                    finishing stroke to the agitation of Elizabeth’s nerves and the confusion of her
                    mind. Her husband rushed in: all that he saw was her form stretched on the
                    ground, trembling and convulsed. He flung himself on his knees beside her, and
                    lifted up her head; whilst Agnes, kneeling close to him, drew back the long tangled hair that hung over her sister’s livid
                    face. Elizabeth opened her eyes: they were full of the most wild and ghastly
                    expression. A terrible fear shot through the mind of Richard that she had
                    suddenly become insane. There was, in truth, a sort of chaos in her thoughts;
                    but one idea remained too fearfully distinct.
                Her gaze fell upon Agnes, and her heart revolted with unnatural horror against
                    her dear and only sister. Half frantic, she started up: with the strength almost
                    of a maniac, she seized Agnes by the arm, which she had rested on the shoulder
                    of Richard, and flung her back with such force, that she fell headlong against
                    the wall. Richard uttered a cry of terror; he really thought she had killed her.
                    He flew to Agnes, and raised her in his arms. She was only stunned, not hurt.
                    She looked up in his face, and smiled, to reassure him. Elizabeth gazed upon
                    them for a moment, as though her quivering frame were turning into stone. Then,
                    stretching out her hands towards her husband, she exclaimed, in words which he
                    then attributed to the ravings of delirium, but which years after haunted him
                    with a fearful meaning, “Oh, Richard, Richard! she is your sister—your
                    sister—your sister!”
                There was something so horrible in the tone in which she reiterated these words,
                    that Agnes  flew towards her, and strove to
                    pass her arms round her, calling her by every endearing name. But Elizabeth
                    disengaged herself from her embrace, and, sinking on the sofa, she began to
                    utter shriek on shriek, evidently in great bodily agony.
                In another hour she was alarmingly ill, and before morning a little feeble child
                    had been brought prematurely into the world, in which it seemed too fragile to
                    exist; and the life of the mother was despaired of.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                THESE events had taken place so rapidly and unexpectedly, that Richard
                    and Agnes had scarce time to speculate on the cause of Elizabeth’s illness,
                    before they became altogether absorbed in their overpowering anxiety for her
                    life. Her state became appalling in the extreme; it seemed as though she could
                    neither live nor die; for she lingered many days after the physicians thought it
                    impossible she could survive. Some thought for this world, some earthly passion
                    or feeling, seemed to hold her back when already in the grasp of death; and
                    whatever that thought might be, it filled her immortal soul, thus standing on
                    the threshold of eternity, so exclusively, that it swallowed up all anxiety or
                    fear for the tremendous judgment close at hand. They could not tell what was the
                    one idea which had power thus to absorb a spirit already summoned into the awful
                    Presence, for Elizabeth was reduced to a state of weakness which deprived her
                    altogether of speech. She could not raise herself or move without assistance,
                    and she would scarce have  seemed alive at all
                    but for the wild restless gaze of her sleepless eyes. There was in them a
                    terrible expression of anxiety and misery, which told but too eloquently of the
                    fierce human anguish with which that silent sufferer was wrestling.
                It was a horrible thing to see one about to enter into those habitations which
                    are everlasting, whether for good or ill, thus concentrating all her expiring
                    faculties, not on earnest repentance, but on the perishing remnant of the mortal
                    life that now might be reckoned by days and hours. She seemed ever struggling
                    madly to express some one last wish, as though her soul could not go forth till
                    it had uttered certain words; but they could comprehend nothing from her
                    inarticulate efforts;—it was to Agnes that she strove to address herself
                    principally, though also to Richard, and they very naturally concluded that, her
                    whole anxiety was for her children only—that all her endeavours were to make her
                    sister understand that she committed them to her care. Impressed with this idea,
                    Agnes tried to soothe and comfort her, by repeating again and again to her that
                    she understood her wishes, and that she would never leave her children, but that
                    she would make it the business of her life to watch over them and devote herself
                    entirely to them.
                
                Richard also, in the same belief, assured her repeatedly that she might be at
                    peace with regard to the poor little infants whom she must leave behind in this
                    chill world. He would never allow Agnes to leave him—she should stay with him to
                    tend and care for them—they should be consigned completely to her charge.
                Those promises which, but for the one horrible idea that now possessed the mind
                    of Elizabeth, would have been to her so inexpressibly soothing and consolatory,
                    served only to madden and torture her as she lay there in her helpless weakness,
                    unable to tell them that they offered for her comfort the very assurance she
                    most dreaded.
                Though not without hope, it was yet a death?bed most unquiet and unblest. Could
                    the dying woman have been altogether disengaged from the engrossing thoughts of
                    this world, it would doubtless have been a season of inestimable profit to her
                    departing soul, for Mr. Lambert attended her assiduously, labouring with
                    unwearied efforts to draw the poor straying sheep in safety to the heavenly
                    fold. But he saw almost with terror that she let the redeemless hours pass
                    recklessly away, with scarce a feeling but for the inward conflict of the heart,
                    whose beating was so soon to cease for ever.
                Her father?in?law, Mr. Clayton, had been so 
                    painfully affected by the state in which he found her, that he had been obliged
                    to relinquish the task of ministering to her in her last hours to his curate;
                    and Mr. Lambert, well accustomed as he was to scenes of a similar nature, found
                    it a most difficult duty. There was something in her mind which he could not
                    fathom, whether anxiety for her children, or, as he was inclined to believe,
                    some deeper and more envenomed cause. But he saw that it rendered nearly
                    powerless all his efforts to awaken her to a more earnest consideration of the
                    awful realities to which she was hurrying so swiftly. His voice, even when
                    hallowed by the Name in which alone is Life Eternal, fell unheeded
                    on the ears that were ever straining to catch the import of the words that
                    passed between Richard and Agnes. It was well nigh in vain that he held up the
                    Majesty of Justice as developed in the Mercy of the Cross, before the soul that
                    vibrated between those feelings ever contending fearfully—the bitter jealousy
                    against the once loved sister, for the sake of the yet dearer husband; or, when
                    some kind act of the childhood’s companion recalled the old affection, the
                    horror akin to hate of the husband, who might destroy the bright prospects of
                    that tender friend’s young life.
                But the first feeling predominated; and often 
                    when Mr. Lambert would have joined her feeble hands in the attitude of
                    supplication, she strove rather to use their failing strength in driving from
                    her bed of death the sister whom she had caressed so often; or, when he
                    endeavoured to pray with her, if he saw that she was really moved by the awful
                    truths he brought before her, a spasm of horror would pass over her face at
                    sight of these two, who were kneeling there side by side.
                    Ultimately Mr. Lambert thought he had reason to hope that this poor sufferer, so
                    bitterly tried in her dying hours, had yet been mercifully dealt with. There was
                    often a look of most earnest pleading and of deepest penitence in her upraised
                    eyes, which led him to trust that this tempest?driven soul had in truth flown to
                    the One True Refuge, although its earthly anguish and anxiety had so sadly
                    interfered with its last solemn duties.
                It was a lovely June morning,—the sky was bright, as though it never had a cloud,
                    and the earth radiant, as though it knew no sin. It was just such a day, when it
                    would have been a glorious thing to have seen a ransomed spirit burst the bonds
                    of its clay, and fly from this land of perishing beauty and fading sunbeams up
                    to the fields of light above, where the Sun of Righteousness for ever shines.
                All those who had any claim on the affection  of
                    Elizabeth Clayton were gathered round her, for her last hour was come. They had
                    placed her little children in her arms, and a few bitter tears, the first she
                    had shed, wet her cold cheek when she felt the little caressing hands passed
                    round her neck. Yet she looked on them with a strange unnatural longing, as
                    though she desired to convey them with her to the grave. Soon the one thought,
                    which had obscured for her the glory of eternity, deadened the mother’s heart
                    within her. She signed to them to take away the smiling infants, for they
                    intercepted her gaze upon those two standing as chief mourners side
                    by side, whom to the last she must watch in her impotent jealousy. Her eyes were
                    glazing fast—the chill of death was creeping through her stiffening members to
                    her pallid breast; but she only felt that the struggle was at its climax—that in
                    a few minutes more she would be powerless to say the words with which she sought
                    to separate them, to interdict their unhallowed union, that now came choking to
                    the lips too palsied to articulate.
                She struggled fearfully for utterance; it was so terrible to see her efforts that
                    Agnes sank upon her knees beside her, and clasping her cold hands,
                    exclaimed—“Dear, dear Elizabeth, I know what you would say, it is for your
                    children; fear nothing, they shall be safe and 
                    happy in my keeping; I will be as a mother to them.”
                “Yes,” said Richard, bending over her; “my poor wife, be at rest; do not doubt
                    our love and care; together we will live only to watch over those dear
                    children.”
                Some dreadful emotion seemed to shake the whole frame of Elizabeth; with a
                    convulsive effort she half raised herself from her pillow; her eyes glanced with
                    the wildest eagerness from the one to the other; her pale lips moved, and they
                    could distinguish the faltering words, “Agnes—not—marry;” it was all they could
                    hear, but Richard anxiously exclaimed, imagining he had understood at last the
                    meaning of her efforts: —“Agnes, she fears you will marry and leave the poor
                    children, but you will not—you will stay with them.”
                “Yes, yes!” exclaimed Agnes, sobbing; “I will, indeed; I will never leave this
                    house; I promise it to you, my dearest sister.” The gleam faded from the
                    despairing eyes of the dying woman—an expression of utter hopelessness settled
                    on her features—they had misunderstood her to the last! It was all over now: it
                    was too late—she could do no more; life was ebbing; all things had grown
                    indistinct around her; she must resign herself to the grave, and them to their
                    unblest union. She sank back; the thought was
                    not in her soul, that He would remember her when He came to His kingdom; or,
                    that He would be merciful to her a sinner; but only the horror of the compact
                    which it seemed to her they had sealed at her very bed of death.
                    She made one feeble effort to turn away her face from both when they stooped to
                    kiss her, and so expired.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                AGNES MAYNARD was within a few months of her majority when Mrs. Clayton
                    died; and the funeral was scarcely over when Mr. Hardman, with systematic
                    propriety, wrote both to herself and Richard for the purpose of arranging her
                    future residence. His letters were first answered by Mr. Clayton, who informed
                    him that it was his own express desire, as well as that of both Agnes and her
                    brother?in?law, that she should remain to take charge of her sister’s infant
                    children.
                Mr. Clayton’s views respecting such alliances as that, the very thought of which
                    had terrified Elizabeth into her grave, were so strong and decisive, that it
                    never occurred to him to suppose that Agnes could ever be considered in any
                    other light than as the sister of his son. He, therefore, felt it to be most
                    desirable, both for the children and Richard, that she should be placed at the
                    head of his establishment under that title; an arrangement which would, in
                    truth, be highly advantageous  in almost all
                    similar cases, had no idea of an unlawful union between persons so connected
                    ever been admitted into the minds of men.
                None of the parties concerned in this affair had, however, in appearance at
                    least, the most distant idea of any such alliance; and, consequently, no
                    obstacle seemed to exist against a plan in all other respects so very suitable.
                Mr. Hardman was quite satisfied that an arrangement which met with the sanction
                    of the vicar of B—, must be perfectly right, and he imagined that he had
                    gathered from Mr. Clayton’s letter that Agnes and his son were to reside with
                    himself. In this Mr. Hardman was altogether mistaken, as Richard had no
                    intention of quitting The Mount. But this erroneous idea satisfied the demands
                    of Mrs. Hardman’s implacable propriety, and she thankfully consented that Agnes
                    should remain at a comfortable distance from her own less attractive daughter.
                Richard Clayton was, during some time, completely absorbed in grief for the loss
                    of his wife. There are few who can bear unmoved, that the heart which has loved
                    them best on earth is cold for ever, however little they may have valued the
                    affection while it lasted. And his sorrow was by no means unmingled with
                    remorse. He could not endure the society  of
                    any one excepting Agnes, with whom he could talk of his Elizabeth, and who in
                    voice and manner so often reminded him of her. Agnes, deeply moved at his
                    distress, and feeling that there was a bond between them in the love they had
                    borne to the departed, devoted herself to the task of soothing and consoling
                    him. Her efforts were not without success; she soon removed the first bitterness
                    of his regrets, and, after a time, Richard could not but feel that his home was
                    still a most happy one. He found himself carefully surrounded with all the
                    comforts and elegance which a woman alone can give to the details of domestic
                    life. His children were cared for, his household well arranged; and when he
                    returned in the evening, wearied with his day’s sport, he never failed to be
                    received with a bright smile of welcome, and to find many little preparations
                    for his coming:—the chair drawn towards the fire, the new book placed beside it,
                    and other marks of attention to his wishes, which, trifling in themselves, yet
                    tend wonderfully to promote the happiness of each day as it passes.
                Agnes herself, though she never ceased to regret her sister, gradually recovered
                    her natural cheerfulness and gaiety of heart. Occupation is the sovereign remedy
                    for despondency, and she had but little time now to brood over the past. Full of
                    the sad enthusiasm with which we seek  to
                    fulfil our duties to the dead, she gave herself up almost entirely to the care
                    of her sister’s children, both of whom required much of her time and attention.
                    The little Mary was a sweet engaging child, timid and sensitive, and displaying,
                    even at that early age, all her mother’s acuteness of feeling; she and her
                    brother were the only relations Agnes now had in the world, and she loved her
                    little niece with the most passionate affection. Mary continued to regret her
                    mother with a tenacity of recollection very uncommon in so young a child, so
                    that Agnes spent many hours of the day in endeavouring to amuse her.
                The infant, for whom this world’s miseries had commenced almost with his first
                    breath, was a still greater anxiety to his young aunt. During his mother’s
                    illness he had been little attended to, and now he was struggling for the life
                    that seemed to have so slight a hold on his little feeble frame. Richard’s
                    physician told him very plainly that the most constant watchfulness and
                    attention alone could preserve an existence so precarious; and he implored of
                    Agnes, almost with tears, to devote herself to this arduous task; for he had
                    long desired most earnestly to have a son, and he could not bear to think that
                    the gift had only been given to be resumed.
                Thus she had much to occupy her thoughts;  and
                    Mr. Clayton not unfrequently employed her in attending on the poor of his
                    parish. He was anxious, by making her acquainted with the sober realities of
                    life, to induce her to take a more serious and practical view of our condition
                    in this world, and of the duties incumbent on us all. There was a certain taint
                    of false poetical sentiment and overstrained romance in the character of Agnes
                    Maynard, which she owed no doubt to the influence of her Parisian teachers, and
                    which Mr. Clayton felt to be sadly at variance with the rigid self?denial and
                    invincible holiness that ought to control the actions of a Christian in all the
                    circumstances of life.
                She seemed to think that the unbounded indulgence of her feelings at all times
                    was almost a matter of duty; and her best actions were performed, not because
                    they were right, but because they were generally agreeable to her
                    naturally sweet disposition.
                She visited the poor, not from that blessed motive once given for the performance
                    of this duty, which makes it the highest privilege on earth, but simply because
                    it really gave her pleasure to relieve their sufferings; and even her attention
                    to the little children was the mere natural result of her fond regrets for their
                    dead mother, and was never viewed by her as a
                    means given to her whereby she might serve her Master. The manner in which she
                    devoted herself to them however, won for her the esteem and admiration of her
                    acquaintances in the neighbourhood of B—; and it became the fashion to seek her
                    friendship. This was extremely agreeable both to Richard and herself, for they
                    were alike fond of society and amusement, having but few resources in
                    themselves. They failed not to place the highest value on the favour and
                    consideration of those whom wealth or rank seemed to render desirable friends;
                    and Richard especially, who fervently loved this world, was most ambitious of
                    its honours. Their happiness was, therefore, increased in no small degree by the
                    position they had now attained in society, and for considerably more than a year
                    they lived in the enjoyment of the greatest ease and comfort. This state might
                    have continued long, and their contentment would doubtless but have increased as
                    they saw the children improving in health, and Richard acquiring great influence
                    in the county; but they were doomed to suffer by that fatal laxity of principle,
                    which has caused it to be considered as a possibility in Christian
                    England that a man should become the husband of one who is virtually his sister!
                No one had ever dreamt of questioning the 
                    propriety of Agnes’s residence with her brother?in?law. Mr. Clayton would as
                    soon have thought of objecting to the presence of his own daughter in the house
                    of his son. But there are to be found in every neighbourhood persons whose
                    business it seems to be to attend to the affairs of their neighbours—who occupy
                    themselves in arranging the plans of others, and prosecute their unjustifiable
                    interference with the ostensible motive of offering well meant advice and
                    judicious kindness. B— was infested by a lady of this description. Mrs. Sharp
                    was the wife of a lawyer, who resided in the village because it placed him at a
                    convenient distance from an estate which he managed in the absence of the
                    proprietor. She was a person of a busy, active disposition, and a perfectly
                    vacant mind. She took a singularly microscopic view of those things which are
                    alone of any importance in this world, whilst it was her delight to magnify
                    trifles, especially if they were sources of annoyance, into matters of weight
                    and consequence. She loved to dig out all those little evils of life which men
                    wisely seek to bury in oblivion, and make their sting be thoroughly felt and
                    understood; and she had a sort of spasmodic irritability of temper, which made
                    it impossible for her to endure quietly the resignation or cheerfulness of her
                    friends. Being  excessively ambitious and very
                    vain, she soon found that her standing in society was not by any means what she
                    could have wished, and she therefore betook herself to that peculiar species of
                    self?aggrandizement, which consisted in the depreciation and abuse of others, so
                    as to produce a comparison favourable to herself; clearly believing, that while
                    enlarging on the faults and follies of her friends, her own virtues grew
                    brighter in proportion. Mr. Sharp systematically encouraged her to take an
                    active and engrossing interest in the affairs of her neighbours, as he thereby
                    diverted her energy of mind and warmth of eloquence from himself and his
                    proceedings.
                Thus Mrs. Sharp, with her inquisitive eyes, her busy tongue, and her spiteful
                    disposition, was an object of terror to the whole neighbourhood—from the vicar,
                    who generally saw her enter the cottages of his parishioners as soon as he
                    quitted them, in order to learn what he had been saying, and counteract its
                    effects, down to the little village girl, who as required to enter into minute
                    details respecting the quality of her Sunday dinner, and other such interesting
                    particulars. This lady Agnes Maynard had the misfortune to offend. Mrs. Sharp
                    had been extremely anxious to cultivate her acquaintance when she found how
                    intimate she had be? come with the leading
                    families of the country; and Agnes, who was at all times accustomed to think far
                    more of her own pleasure than of the courtesies of life, had not scrupled, as
                    she thought her a particularly disagreeable person, to repel her advances in a
                    very marked and humiliating manner. This slight was never forgiven or forgotten
                    by Mrs. Sharp; she cherished a sense of injury with all the tenacity of a little
                    mind; and from that day it became one of the chief objects of her existence to
                    find some means of indulging her deep?rooted and bitter dislike of Agnes. It was
                    so, perhaps, unconsciously to herself; for Mrs. Sharp, like most people, was
                    well grounded in the art of self?deceit; and she persuaded herself that it was a
                    laudable zeal for the well?being of society, which induced her to spread many
                    evil reports respecting the residence of Agnes Maynard with her brother?in?law,
                    instead of a mean and ungenerous desire of revenge.
                It so chanced, that in the course of the second year after the death of Elizabeth
                    Clayton, Mrs. Sharp went for a few days to London. One of her first proceedings
                    on arriving there was to call on Mrs. Hardman, as she had long looked forward
                    with a keen relish to some favourable opportunity of stirring up that
                    respectable lady to a virtuous indignation against her ward, for  whose conduct Mr. Hardman was to a certain degree
                    responsible.
                Mrs. Sharp had been acquainted with the family during their six months’ residence
                    at the Mount; and the first polite speeches were scarcely over, when she
                    proceeded gradually to insinuate what was in fact the real object of her visit.
                    She began by looking fixedly and with an air of profound compassion on Mrs.
                    Hardman, and having given vent to several heavy sighs, remarked that she was
                    thankful to see her in tolerable spirits.
                “I believe my spirits are generally very good,” said Mrs. Hardman, who sat stiff
                    and impassible as usual. “No one can accuse me of being variable: my temper is
                    even and equable, as it ought to be.”
                “Ah, well! you are a very strong?minded person, I know,” said Mrs. Sharp; “still
                    I must say I expected to see you a little moved by such a trial.”
                “Mrs. Sharp, may I ask to what you allude?” inquired Mrs. Hardman. “Trials I
                    have, no doubt, such as I believe no one but a person of my strength of
                    character could have undergone; but I am not aware that you are acquainted with
                    them: they are buried in my own bosom.”
                “My dear Mrs. Hardman, I can assure you  this
                    one is not buried anywhere,” exclaimed Mrs. Sharp; “no one talks of anything
                    else at B—. It was only the other day that I met Lady C— on the road, and she
                    stopped her carriage, and put her head out of the window, (you know I am very
                    intimate with Lady C—) and she held up her hands just in this way, and
                    said,—“Well, Mrs. Sharp, this is a sad affair, only to think that Mrs. Hardman
                    should have sanctioned— I won’t annoy you by repeating the rest; but it is the
                    opinion of every one. Why, there was Mr. L—; he said to my husband, that his
                    opinion of Mr. Hardman’s good sense and respectability were unavoidably
                    shaken,—these were his words, ‘unavoidably shaken.’”
                “Mrs. Sharp, I beg you will explain yourself,” exclaimed Mrs. Hardman, becoming
                    crimson with anger and impatience; “I cannot guess what you are talking of.”
                “Can you not, indeed? Well, then, it must be because you do not see it in the
                    light that I do, and that every one else does. Perhaps it is not the kind of
                    misfortune that affects you—people are so different! To be sure, it is not like
                    a loss of money; but, for my part, I am so sensitive, there is no misfortune I
                    would not bear sooner than disgrace. It would be to me worse than any
                    affliction. I declare to you  I would rather
                    see Mr. Sharp expire before my eyes than be disgraced as you have been.”
                “Disgrace is not a word that ever applied to me or any of my family,” exclaimed
                    Mrs. Hardman; “I am sure of that, at all events!”
                “Of course you are; and that is just what makes this, in my opinion, so heavy a
                    trial to you. If it had been one of your own family, (and I am sure I hope none
                    of them ever will follow her example,) you would have endured it as
                    a domestic affliction; but to be so lowered in the eyes of the world by a person
                    who is not even a relation!”
                “How often am I to tell you that I don’t know what you mean?” screamed Mrs.
                    Hardman, fairly driven out of her usual dignity by her frantic curiosity; “if
                    you have anything to say at all, why don’t you speak out?”
                At these words Mrs. Sharp turned slowly round, and fixed her staring eyes on the
                    excited lady with a look of well?acted astonishment:—“Do you really mean to
                    say,” she replied, as the words dropped from her lips with exasperating
                    coolness, “that you have not heard —”
                “I have heard nothing,” shouted Mrs. Hardman, “I have been telling you so for the
                    last hour!” With that Mrs. Sharp elevated her eyes, shook her head, clasped her
                    hands, and nodded  mysteriously several times.
                    During these evolutions, Mrs. Hardman looked at her as if she could have
                    devoured her. Finally, losing all patience, she actually shook her by the arm
                    and desired her to speak.
                Mrs. Sharp, seeing that she had worked up her friend to a suitable state of
                    excitement, at once complied, and hastened to enlarge on the residence of Agnes
                    Maynard in the house of Richard Clayton, in terms which could have been imagined
                    only by a mind not merely devoid of the slightest refinement or delicacy, but of
                    principle also. We say devoid of principle, because, had she judged Agnes and
                    Richard by the high and holy standard set before us all, she could not have
                    considered them otherwise than as brother and sister.
                Mrs. Hardman and her husband, who had now come in, shocked and dismayed at the
                    manner in which she spoke, hurriedly demanded if Agnes had not been residing
                    with the elder Mr. Clayton. They had received but few communications from the
                    Mount since the death of Elizabeth, and were, consequently, ignorant of many
                    details.
                A triumphant negative was given to their question by Mrs. Sharp, who further
                    proceeded to mix up with her statement the leaven of falsity and exaggeration
                    which is always to be  found in the discourse
                    of such persons. She assured them that the conduct of Agnes was strongly
                    reprobated by the society in the neighbourhood of B—, and that it was a matter
                    of universal astonishment that Mr. Hardman should permit her to remain in so
                    equivocal a situation. The furious indignation of the Hardmans at this account
                    may be imagined; that their sense of propriety should be called in
                    question by the world of their idolatry, was an affront not to be endured, and
                    it might prove very injurious to Mr. Hardman were it known that he had left his
                    ward in a doubtful position. They declared to Mrs. Sharp, that they were under a
                    deep sense of obligation to her, that they had been grossly deceived, but that
                    they would rectify their unconscious error that very day. To which she responded
                    with an air of virtuous modesty, that she had only done her duty—that she
                    applauded their resolution of speedily interfering in this unpleasant affair;
                    and then took her leave, fortified by their praises for some yet more determined
                    assault on the domestic happiness of a few more of her friends.
                By that night’s post a letter was despatched to Agnes, the joint composition of
                    Mr. and Mrs. Hardman, in which her present position, as it appeared in the eyes
                    of the world, was qualified in terms that must
                    wound her beyond endurance; and which terminated with a peremptory order to her
                    to place herself without delay under the escort of the person they would send to
                    conduct her to London, where she was henceforward to reside in their house as
                    her sister had done.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                IT was winter now. Christmas?tide was scarcely past, and the holly and
                    mistletoe still decorated the walls of the beautiful church where Richard and
                    Agnes had knelt that morning, happy with a strange restless happiness in one
                    another’s society, which they would scarce have ventured to analyze. They agreed
                    that they had never spent a Christmas of such unalloyed gladness. Mr. Clayton
                    always made it his especial care that this season should be one of true
                    rejoicing to every individual in his parish, and they had readily and generously
                    assisted him in this endeavour. Agnes had carried her gifts and good wishes to
                    every house in the village, and there was warmth and light on the humblest
                    hearth amongst them, when the chimes rung out on the clear midnight air, bearing
                    forth the glad tidings of great joy which the angels brought from heaven at the
                    selfsame hour.
                In their own house Agnes had taken care that all
                    should be cheerfulness and gaiety, and Richard thought with delight of the
                    bright scene that waited him as he rode home through the darkness that evening.
                    He had been called to some distance on business; he was chilled and wearied, and
                    he pictured to himself the well lighted room, with the huge fire blazing on the
                    hearth, and the little Mary springing from the arms of her young aunt to meet
                    him.
                The scene which did in fact await him at the Mount, was a melancholy contrast to
                    this pleasing vision. He went first to the drawing?room, already surprised that
                    no one met him at the door. There was no light there, and the room was in
                    disorder; but most of all, he missed the sweet face of Agnes brightening so
                    gaily at his approach. It was the first time she had ever failed to welcome him,
                    and a sudden foreboding of evil assailed him. He went hurriedly from room to
                    room in search of her. He called her anxiously, but no answer was returned. At
                    last a sound of stifled sobbing met his ear. It came from the sleeping room of
                    his children, and he opened the door at once and went in. Agnes was kneeling
                    beside the cradle of the little Mary, who had fallen asleep, her cheeks yet wet
                    with the tears she had shed in her innocent sympathy for the sorrow of her aunt,
                    though she had been unable to comprehend the 
                    cause of it. Agnes had buried her face in the pillow, and was weeping as though
                    her very heart would break. She started at the sound of Richard’s voice, as he
                    took her hands in his and besought her to tell him what had grieved her. Her
                    distress was so violent that she could not speak for a few minutes; then she
                    could only utter a few incoherent words. She pointed to the child, so beautiful
                    and smiling in its quiet slumber.
                “How can I ever bear to leave her!” she exclaimed; “and still more, how could I
                    leave you, dear Richard, and this happy home—all, all I love in the world! How
                    can I go? I cannot, I cannot! I should die! I know that I should!” She spoke
                    with that frantic impatience of suffering which we should all be disposed to
                    feel, had we no pure and holy motive given us for a calm endurance. Richard was
                    bewildered with astonishment.
                “What can you mean, Agnes?” he said; “Where would you go? Who is it that would
                    dare to take you from me?” She was sobbing so much that she could not answer,
                    but she pointed to the letter which lay on the ground beside her. He took it up
                    and read it through. Agnes looked up at him when he had finished it, and she was
                    perfectly appalled by the storm of passion which convulsed his features. He  actually shook with anger; he crushed the
                    letter in his hand till not a word was legible; then, trampling it under foot,
                    he burst into the most tremendous invectives against those who had written it.
                    Agnes trembled with terror at his violence. She almost forgot her grief in her
                    anxiety. She rose up, and clinging to his arm, implored of him to be more
                    composed.
                “Dear Richard,” she said, “it can do no good to use these terrible words against
                    them; let us think rather what we are to do. I cannot go, I feel that I cannot;
                    it would kill me!”
                “You shall not,” said Richard, turning to her almost fiercely. “I tell you, you
                    shall not leave me; no power on earth will induce me to part from you.”
                “But how? how?” said Agnes. “I cannot stay when such terms have been used towards
                    me.” She covered her face with her hands as she spoke: her movement seemed to
                    increase the fury of Richard’s indignation, but a stern resolution made him now
                    more calm; he drew away her hands, and bid her look up boldly.
                “Agnes,” he said, “I must take this night to consider how the matter had best be
                    managed, but I charge you in the mean time to remain convinced of this—you shall
                    not leave me; we shall not be separated, come what may; I will never consent to
                    part with you.” His tone of  decision, and his
                    look of settled determination, gave Agnes an involuntary faith in his words,
                    though she could not at all perceive how they were to be verified; but her
                    womanly feeling of helplessness compelled her to rely with unquestioning trust
                    on his promise, that he would save her from the trial she could not and would
                    not bear.
                “I will leave it all to you, then,” she said, “for I am bewildered,—I cannot tell
                    what is to be done. I only know I cannot leave you and those dear
                    children:—Who would care for them as I have done?”
                “Who indeed? and for their sakes, Agnes, we must not scruple at any measure which
                    shall ensure to them your tender love and watchfulness. Fear nothing, then; go
                    and sleep in peace; to?morrow we will make some arrangement by which we can defy
                    the world to separate us.”
                And Agnes did rest calmly that night with Mary nestling in her arms. She felt as
                    though she must keep guard over this precious child, even through the darkness,
                    lest they stole her away; but she trusted with the most perfect security to
                    Richard’s assurances, nothing doubting that he could perform what he had
                    promised.
                For Richard Clayton, however, there was no rest that night; hour after hour he
                    paced to  and fro in anxious reflection as to
                    his future conduct. He was a shrewd and a clever man, and from the first moment
                    when he read the Hardmans’ letter, his acute mind had grasped the details of the
                    case in their full extent, and he had perceived that there remained but one
                    alternative for himself and his sister?in?law. It was perfectly impossible that
                    Agnes Maynard should continue to reside in his house in a position which had
                    called forth such remarks; he would have been the first to despise her had she
                    done so; and yet with the same impatience of sorrow which she had manifested,
                    and which is the characteristic of all undisciplined minds, he felt that he
                    could not, he would not, lose her. Even for his children’s sake she must remain.
                    How could he endure to see them dying for want of the assiduous care which she
                    alone could give them? Mary, who seemed to have no power to live, save in an
                    atmosphere of love; and the fragile infant, his son, the pride of his heart, on
                    whom so many hopes were built, only now beginning to exhibit symptoms of
                    increasing strength and health, which all would vanish, as he knew full well, if
                    a cold heart and careless hand alone were to be concerned in his welfare.
                    Moreover Richard Clayton, although of a generous temper, was essentially
                    selfish—peculiarities of disposition which are by no means incompatible. He could not bear to think of his house in
                    disorder, cheerless, and lonely, with all the petty cares of the “menage,” which
                    are so essentially a woman’s province, devolving on himself. No; Agnes
                        must remain with him; but there was one only position in which
                    it was possible for her to do so—she must become his wife!
                He would never have desired to look upon Agnes in any other light than as his
                    sister, had the unlawfulness of a union, such as that which he now projected,
                    been sufficiently felt and understood in this country to have enabled her to
                    remain with impunity in charge of his establishment.
                This, however, is not the case,—to the destruction of much domestic happiness,
                    and of many of the holiest and best feelings of our nature. It is certain that
                    the unjustifiable license which has been given to these marriages by the
                    diversity of opinion on this point (so long decided by primitive and holy
                    authority), has driven many to form the connexion from which their better
                    feelings would otherwise have revolted.
                Richard Clayton was determined to retain the society of his sister?in?law, and by
                    this arrangement alone could he do so. Therefore, following the inflexible law
                    of his own inclination, he resolved to accomplish it. He had no  pure and lofty principle in his own soul to restrain
                    him, and for external obstacles he cared little, for he knew that such marriages
                        had taken place. But he was not aware of the fact, that they
                    are very generally reprobated by society.
                Had Richard known that the world he loved so truly, severe in the enforcement of
                    its own code of conventional laws, has affixed a stigma to the name of him who
                    takes for his wife the woman who has been called his sister, he would perhaps
                    have been prevented by his worship of public opinion from taking that step which
                    his professed Christianity in vain prohibited. He was ignorant, however, of the
                    general feeling which is fortunately so strong on this point, and he anticipated
                    no opposition excepting from his father. Mr. Clayton, he was certain, would view
                    such a deed with the sternest disapprobation.
                But Richard had long ceased attempting even to follow in the straight and narrow
                    path which his father, uncompromising in his high standard of right and wrong,
                    had traced out before him. He could not have taken one step in such a course,
                    unassisted by that self?denial, without which it is worse than mockery to
                    profess the Holy Christian Faith, but which was a blessing yet unknown to him.
                    He, therefore, constantly  declared that it was
                    quite impossible for him to please his father, and made this conviction a
                    license to himself, recklessly to brave his displeasure at all times. One
                    measure only must be taken with regard to Mr. Clayton,—the marriage must be
                    carefully concealed from him until it was too late to prohibit it. From Agnes
                    herself Richard expected no opposition; the idea would be startling to her at
                    first, for he felt certain she bad never entertained a thought as to the
                    possibility of such an arrangement; but he knew that he possessed great
                    influence over her—the influence which a man of strong will must at all times
                    possess over a weak and timid woman, unless there be in her that
                    strength which is best shown forth in weakness. But most of all he relied on the
                    all?powerful argument of his children’s welfare, and her own bitter grief at the
                    mere thought of leaving her happy home.
                Richard Clayton had plausibly reasoned himself into the full belief that he was
                    acting for the best when he went next morning to offer Agnes Maynard the
                    position of wife in the house where she had dwelt as sister; and yet there was a
                    feeling of conscious guilt at his heart when she came to meet him with her frank
                    warm greeting, and addressed him by the name of brother, which, for the first
                    time, grated so unpleasantly  on his ears. The
                    sight of his children, however, reassured him—they seemed to plead his cause
                    already. The infant lay on Agnes’ knees, now showing signs of intelligence, and
                    smiling at the sound of her sweet well?known voice; whilst Mary clung to her
                    hand, which she kissed repeatedly. Richard looked on the group for a moment, and
                    then spoke in an earnest and serious tone which his anxiety rendered impressive.
                    He told her calmly and boldly the result of his deliberations. They had mutually
                    agreed that, happen what might, they would remain together. In one manner only
                    was this possible—she must consent to marry him. The violent start, the rush of
                    warm blood to her very forehead, the wild bewildered glance of her eyes upon his
                    face—for all this Richard was fully prepared; but he trembled for the success of
                    his plan, when he saw that she shrunk from his side where she had placed herself
                    so confidingly, and that her breast seemed heaving with some strong emotion. It
                    was many minutes before she could speak; and when at last her words came,
                    seemingly from her very heart, with a heavy sigh, they were but these:—“Oh,
                    Elizabeth, Elizabeth!” It was the voice of her conscience which spoke in that
                    brief exclamation, too much warped and deadened by indifference and false
                    sentiment to arouse her at  once with the
                    remembrance of the immaculate holiness of the faith to which she was pledged; it
                    seemed, with a sudden instinct, to raise up the dead before her as a barrier
                    between herself and the man who sought to make her his wife.
                Yet this was but a vague and weak obstacle wherewith to oppose the concentrated
                    strength of her affection for all those dear ones round her. Had there ever been
                    in her soul one pure and firm determination to follow in the painful steps of
                    Him, who for her sake had not where to lay His head, how willingly would she
                    have abandoned home and friends, and all earth’s dearest joys, rather than have
                    deviated one hair’s breadth from the line of severest holiness and rectitude!
                    But she had never known any such solemn and blessed delivering up of self at the
                    foot of the Cross; she had made herself at all times so much the slave of her
                    own feelings, that it could not be expected that they should fail to obtain the
                    mastery at this the crisis of her fate.
                It is needless to repeat all the arguments by which Richard induced her to give
                    him a favourable answer. They were such as have been mentioned already, and for
                    a mind constituted like that of Agnes Maynard certainly most powerful. Her
                    French education had  tended sadly to falsify
                    her sense of right and wrong; and many things seemed to her pardonable, and even
                    justifiable, that would have shocked a mind never subjected to the poisonous
                    influence that had not been without effect on hers. It was this that enabled her
                    to adopt so readily the shallow sophistry of Richard, who answered her, when she
                    attempted feebly to urge the peculiar connexion which already existed between
                    them, by reminding her that he had known her before his engagement with her
                    sister, she would not have scrupled to have married him then, and why should she
                    do so now? Their connexion was but in name. Would she, for the sake of a name—a
                    shadow, sacrifice his happiness and her own—the life of those dear children? He
                    took the little hands of his innocent Mary and folded them in his own that she
                    might plead for him, and Agnes yielded. Richard Clayton effected his purpose—his
                    sister?in?law agreed to become his wife.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                WHEN the matter was fairly decided, Agnes readily consented to the wish
                    of her future husband, that she would leave all the minor details entirely to
                    him, and not even question him as to his arrangements till they could be put
                    into execution; he was to take all measures requisite with Mr. Hardman and Mr.
                    Clayton; on her he enjoined only the most profound secresy.
                During the interval which followed, Agnes seemed desirous to drive the whole
                    affair from her thoughts altogether. She appeared to be animated with a forced
                    and unnatural gaiety; laughed and talked far more than usual; and would not
                    allow the children to quit her for a moment. Richard occupied himself so
                    incessantly with the necessary and somewhat difficult preparations, that he
                    excluded all other thoughts; but the truth was, that neither of them was so calm
                    inwardly as they sought to appear to one another. Without communicating their
                    feelings to each other, they simul? taneously
                    avoided the church, for they could not endure to pass the grave of Elizabeth.
                No answer was sent to Mr. Hardman’s letter, and it was speedily followed by
                    another full of the most bitter indignation against Agnes. He concluded by
                    saying, that if she did not appear at his house in London within a given time,
                    he would himself come in search of her to B—.
                “We shall pass him on the road,” said Richard scornfully, as he handed the letter
                    to Agnes; “we must be married in London.”
                “Not here?” asked Agnes, in a tremulous voice. “Here!” replied Richard, angrily;
                    “what are you thinking of?—how is it possible? do you suppose my father, or Mr.
                    Lambert, would ever consent?” Agnes felt a cold shiver pass through her frame,
                    she scarce knew why, but she made no answer.
                Richard had found that it was more easy to decide upon such a step than to put it
                    in execution; there were several difficulties to be overcome. He had to
                    investigate into the state of the law respecting marriages of this nature; and
                    he found, although not at that period declared null and void, as they have since
                    been by the passing of the Act to that effect in 1835, they were even then
                        voidable, and capable of being set aside altogether. This could
                    only be done, however, if an action was 
                    brought against them during the life?time of both parties, and Richard’s fears
                    were quieted at once when he discovered that it was so, as he did not conceive
                    it possible that any one could ever find it his interest to attempt such a
                    measure.
                Another obstacle seemed to him more serious, which was the possibility that no
                    clergyman would consent to perform the ceremony. A little reflection, however,
                    soon overcame this difficulty. It was very easy to go to London, where the
                    parish priest of some populous district, in which the names of Richard Clayton
                    and Agnes Maynard were quite unknown, would never think of asking if any
                    peculiar connexion subsisted between them.
                Richard wrote to a lady, a cousin of his own, who resided in London, whose theory
                    it was, that all duties which interfered with inclination were overmuch
                    righteousness; and having communicated to her the state of the case, begged of
                    her to receive Agnes into her house during the three weeks which must be given
                    to the publishing of the banns. He received an answer complying with his request
                    and promising secresy. He then told his father that he was going to take Agnes
                    to London for a few weeks to visit a friend, and the next day they left the
                    Mount together.
                It was a cold gloomy morning on which  they
                    commenced their journey. Agnes was deadly pale: she shivered violently, and
                    averted her head as they passed the churchyard. Richard asked, with considerable
                    irritation, what was the reason of the tears that filled her eyes? and she
                    answered, that she grieved to leave the children—it was the first time she had
                    quitted them. “Well, now you will be with them always after this; so pray let me
                    see you gay and happy, Agnes. You could not have seemed more dismal, if I had
                    been taking you to Mr. Hardman’s.” This allusion had the effect he desired: her
                    face brightened immediately. She began to laugh merrily at the idea that her
                    guardian was probably leaving London that day in search of her; and Richard had
                    no further reason to complain of her sadness, although her gaiety was somewhat
                    forced.
                During the three weeks which followed their arrival in London, Richard took care,
                    with the willing assistance of his cousin, that Agnes should be continually
                    occupied with some amusement, which left her no time for thought. She was
                    thankful, indeed, to be spared all reflection; for, in spite of herself, there
                    was a vague and painful feeling which she could not define, that haunted her at
                    all times when Richard alluded to their marriage. Even the  night before it took place,—the night that surely, in
                    all similar cases, should be devoted to most earnest prayer for grace to perform
                    the solemn vows about to be taken,—was spent by Agnes Maynard at the theatre;
                    and when she awoke next morning, tired and depressed, she could scarce believe
                    that this was indeed her wedding?day. Her wedding?day! How differently had she
                    pictured it to herself in her bright visions years ago! How often had she
                    fancied herself going forth an honoured bride, amid warm congratulations and
                    friendly wishes, to become a happy wife in face of all the world! If ever a day
                    in her whole life was to be bright and joyous, she had thought it should be
                    this, when, by a most holy ordinance, she was to receive the promise of
                    unchanging affection from one who was to be her protector and guide even to her
                    life’s end; and to herself was to be given the blessed task of smoothing for him
                    the rugged path of life, and devoting herself to him as tender friend and
                    faithful wife. And now the day was come; but how could she feel glad or thankful
                    for it, when she was going forth stealthily—as if about to do some evil deed—to
                    unite herself to one whom she well knew many would say ought never to have been
                    her husband! Instead of rejoicings and festivities to celebrate her marriage,
                    concealment and decep? tion were necessary,
                    before it could be effected at all. The numerous friends sympathising in her
                    happiness were to be replaced by two witnesses whose services were remunerated;
                    and this hour, so momentous and agitating for her, must be met alone and
                    unsupported.
                There was a heavy weight at the heart of Agnes Maynard, as she looked out and saw
                    the one single carriage that stood at the door, to convey herself and her future
                    husband to the church. Heaven did not smile upon her; for a dull, heavy rain was
                    pouring from the thick black clouds; and she remembered, with the
                    painfully?superstitious feeling which at times assails us all, the old proverb,
                    that a weeping sky forebodes a weeping bride.
                Richard’s cousin accompanied them; but, as she was a lady profoundly devoted to
                    her own comfort, it was not without considerable difficulty that he could induce
                    her to leave the house in such weather; and she did not scruple to manifest her
                    discontent during the whole of their cheerless drive, shivering and complaining
                    of the cold, without a thought for poor Agnes, who sat crouching in the corner,
                    pale as death. When they reached the church, the lady ensconced herself in a
                    pew, and, desiring them to call her when they were ready to return, left them to
                    proceed alone towards the altar. Agnes 
                    trembled so violently, that she could scarcely walk; and Richard rebuked her
                    somewhat harshly, for being, as he said, absurdly nervous. They had been on too
                    intimate terms during their former intercourse to admit of his treating her with
                    that peculiar homage which is generally offered to a young bride at such an
                    hour; and the angry words that at another time would have affected her but
                    little, seemed cruel to Agnes, as she ascended the altar?steps. They stood side
                    by side: the clergyman hurried over a duty which the cold and comfortless aspect
                    of all around rendered by no means pleasant. They took those solemn vows whereby
                    two human beings are constituted guardians of one another’s happiness, and each
                    is provided with a friend whom neither time nor change, sickness nor sorrow,
                    shall ever alienate; and at that moment, when surely no other thought should
                    have been in their hearts, save the imploring of a blessing on one another’s
                    heads,—the blessing which henceforward they would seek to embody in every action
                    of their lives,—why was it that before the eyes of Richard Clayton and Agnes
                    Maynard there seemed to pass the form of Elizabeth, turning away from them the
                    wan pale face, as she turned it at the last hour when they would have given her
                    their farewell kiss?
                The ceremony was over—the cold, unfelt blessing
                    was uttered by the lips of the stranger, who had never seen them before, and
                    cared never to see them again—and it was not without an involuntary shudder that
                    they heard themselves pronounced man and wife in the very same words which when
                    spoken for Richard and Elizabeth had constituted them brother and sister!
                They took leave of their cousin at the door of the church, and proceeded to a
                    village on the sea?shore, where they remained for some little time before they
                    returned to the Mount to take up their residence once more in the home where
                    they had dwelt together under the plea of a relationship of so very different a
                    nature.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                RICHARD CLAYTON had written to announce his marriage to his father and
                    also to his household; and although it was with considerable trepidation that he
                    awaited a meeting with the former, it never occurred to him to anticipate any
                    manifestation of feeling on the part of those who formed his establishment. He
                    never bestowed a thought on persons in that inferior station, and certainly did
                    not imagine them to be capable of forming an opinion on such a matter as that
                    now in question. But it is a peculiarity of the lower classes which must have
                    been remarked by many, that they display a singular delicacy of feeling in their
                    reverence for the dead. They seem to consider it a holy duty to be most
                    scrupulous in all things pertaining to the honour of those helpless ones
                    departed. And though Richard’s servants could not understand how far Agnes had
                    sinned against all conventional laws by remaining in the house, not of her
                        brother?in?law (for to that no right?minded person should have
                    objected), but  of a man whom she thought
                        it possible to marry, they could yet feel the instinctive revolting
                    of conscience against a union between those two, for death had dissolved the tie
                    between Richard and Elizabeth in one sense only—it had not dissolved the
                        relationship which that tie had produced—Agnes was still sister to
                    her who mouldered in the dust—Richard was still one flesh with her—the
                    fraternity between them remained unbroken as between children of the same
                    parents; the humble servants felt these things, though they could not have
                    expressed them, and their natural indignation and repugnance at the step which
                    their master had taken were fostered to the uttermost by the assiduous efforts
                    of Mrs. Sharp.
                This lady, under pretence of visiting the little Mary, had come to the Mount
                    every day since the departure of Richard and Agnes, in order to glean what
                    information she could respecting their mysterious journey, which she could not
                    help connecting with her own visit to Mr. and Mrs. Hardman, and the letter which
                    she knew they had written in consequence. She was herself under the full belief
                    that Agnes had returned to her guardian’s protection; and when she heard of
                    their marriage, she was, to do her justice, sincerely and deeply shocked. In
                    fact, no person, even worldly minded and unrefined  as Mrs. Sharp was, could fail to be otherwise on
                    first hearing of a union of that description, unless their mind had received a
                    bias to a contrary opinion from the sophistical arguments of those who fear not
                    to show a practical contempt of God’s laws and ordinances; and it seemed to her
                    a very horrible thing that Richard should hold in such light esteem the sacred
                    tie which had united him to Elizabeth, that he thus openly set at nought the
                    indissoluble bonds with which it had bound him as brother to her sister. Soon,
                    however, when the first feelings of astonishment and indignation had subsided,
                    it was with no small delight that Mrs. Sharp found she had now a fair and most
                    legitimate ground for inveighing against Agnes in the strongest terms; and she
                    so worked on the minds of Richard’s servants, already sufficiently excited on
                    the subject, that they received the newly?married couple on their arrival with
                    the most cold and sullen looks; some of them, full of that superstitious dread
                    of a judgment on those who do such deeds (which is not altogether a
                    superstition), did not even delay an hour informing their master that they would
                    not remain in his service. This was a chilling reception for the unhonoured
                    bride; but a sharper pang awaited her. Mary had been left entirely to the care
                    of the servants, and to the tender mercies of Mrs.  Sharp, and they had not failed to fill her young mind
                    with many painful ideas respecting her father and aunt, which, with all the
                    strength and power of early impressions, were destined to influence her feelings
                    towards them during the remainder of her life. No attempt is made at the age of
                    this innocent little being to hide what passes in the mind, and they received
                    their first bitter lesson as to the manner in which both God and man were to
                    view this deed, from the pure lips of the child they loved so well.
                Richard was furiously angry, Agnes miserable, and their first evening at home was
                    a very sad one.
                The next morning, Richard wrote a note to Mr. Clayton, requesting to know when he
                    could see him. It was not without a pang that they felt such a measure to be
                    necessary. The answer was delayed some hours; it came at last, merely a verbal
                    message, naming an hour on the following day, when Mr. Clayton would receive
                    them. They looked forward with the most painful anxiety to the interview. The
                    profound affection which both felt almost equally for him, was mingled with a
                    respect amounting to awe; for it does not require a mind of a high order to feel
                    the influence of superior holiness.
                At the appointed hour they walked together to the vicarage. They had to cross the
                        church? yard, which was separated from the
                    garden only by an invisible fence; there was a grave laid there, which they
                    passed with hurried steps and averted head; the church stood so near the house,
                    that it seemed placed almost within the grounds, and the east window was close
                    to that of the drawing?room.
                It was impossible at the vicarage of B— to be indifferent to the proximity of
                    that holy and beautiful house, with its quiet grass?grown tombs, telling of the
                    body sown in dishonour and weakness, and its cross, giving a hope of that which
                    is raised in glory and power. It was a blessed thing when some earthly sorrow
                    was at work, and many a hidden pang smote through the soul, to be able at once
                    to lift the eyes to that fair church and think of the sure rest that remaineth
                    for the people of God: but these two, as they sat waiting in the drawing?room of
                    the vicarage, turned away their eyes from the sight.
                It was some time before Mr. Clayton appeared. Agnes had buried her face in her
                    hands. Richard walked moodily to and fro. He entered at last. Their hearts sunk
                    within them at sight of him who for their sakes had spent the last three days in
                    fasting and prayer. He was not stern, but grave and calm; his face had the
                    traces of bitter suffering, but it wore  also
                    an expression of firm determination, which they knew resulted from the triumph
                    of duty over natural affection.
                They all seemed simultaneously to feel that the customary expressions of welcome
                    and greeting would be a bitter mockery, and for a few minutes no one spoke. The
                    tears which Agnes had shed abundantly over the estrangement of the little Mary
                    were dried up now by the burning blush that crimsoned her face when she found
                    herself standing before that grey?haired old man, who had so struggled after a
                    rigid and unshrinking holiness, that his life and thoughts were pure as those of
                    an innocent child. Richard seemed endeavouring to conceal his fierce uneasiness,
                    his restless angry suffering. Mr. Clayton looked from the one to the other, and
                    became much agitated; he turned to the window to hide his emotion; the sight
                    probably of the church, at whose altar he ministered as priest, restored to him
                    his courage and his strength. He came and stood before them severe and unmoved.
                “It is best we should understand each other,” he said, addressing his son.
                    “Richard, you have taken a step which you were perfectly aware could only meet
                    with the most severe and unqualified disapprobation from me; but you will
                    doubtless say that you have long since cast off the trammels of paternal authority—that you are no longer of an age when it
                    is necessary for you to be influenced by my opinions, or to consult my
                    wishes—that we stand together as man with man, the one as likely to be right in
                    his ideas as the other, each holding his own views in independence, acting by
                    his own standard of right and wrong. Be this as it may, certain it is that you
                    stand on your own responsibility so far as regards the ordering of your life in
                    the sight of God. I have not the power, because I am your earthly father, of
                    compelling you to serve your Father which is in heaven. As your parent, then, I
                    profess no authority to condemn the deed which you have done; but on far higher
                    ground I do most solemnly condemn it, even as a priest of the Most High! Let me
                    set aside, then, all other relationship save that of a clergyman and his
                    parishioner; as such, I must tell you plainly, that the union you have
                    contracted is contrary to the will of God, to the authority of the Church, and
                    to the law of the land; it is unhallowed, it must be unblest. Your purpose in
                    coming here to?day is to request that I, a minister of Christ, will sanction the
                    marriage of a man with a woman who is virtually his sister. You are aware that
                    my first and highest duty is to my flock; I am set before them not as a teacher
                    only, but as an example, in humblest imitation
                    of Him whose servant I am, and who was Teacher and Example to the world. You
                    know that I have always most strongly prohibited amongst them such marriages as
                    that which you have contracted. I have turned away persons so connected from the
                    very steps of the altar where they came to be united. I have spoken against them
                    from the pulpit. I have admonished my people on the subject in their own houses.
                    I have openly refused to sanction parties joined in such unlawful unions, even
                    though already married when they came into my parish. And now, Richard, I ask it
                    of yourself,—do you think it possible for me, to whom is committed authority in
                    the Church of God, without derogating fearfully from my holy calling, to
                    countenance the man who has made such a marriage, although that man is my son?”
                “You need not have said all this, to prove to me what you mean to do,” exclaimed
                    Richard, taking refuge from the painful feelings that oppressed him, in a burst
                    of anger; “I have guessed it from the first. You mean that you will cast us
                    off,—at least that you will not receive us, or come to visit us.”
                “I do mean it,” said Mr. Clayton, calmly, though sadly; “since by no other means
                    can I prove to my flock how profoundly I disapprove of your act, now, alas! so
                    irrevocable.”
                
                “What an existence!“ said Richard, rising and pacing the room in violent
                    agitation; ”father and son living within a few hundred yards of each other on
                    such terms as these! You will bear it calmly, I doubt not; but to me it will be insupportable.
                        ”
                        
                    
                “Richard,” said Mr. Clayton, his voice trembling with emotion, “I did not expect
                    that you would do me justice in believing with what bitter anguish to myself I
                    have taken this resolution respecting you; but I have at least an opportunity of
                    showing you that, however rigidly I must adhere to my most painful duty, I have
                    not been without consideration for your feelings. I am quite aware how galling
                    it would be to you to have your residence henceforward so near to mine. I know,
                    also, that it would be very injurious to your prospects in life, were you to
                    quit this place, on many accounts. I have, therefore, determined on leaving B—
                    myself, at the same time openly informing my flock of the reason which induces
                    me to do so. A clergyman with whom I am acquainted, in Kent, has long been
                    desirous of holding this living. I have effected an exchange with him: in a week
                    he comes to this house, and I leave it for ever.”
                “Impossible—it cannot be!” exclaimed Richard and Agnes both at once. “Oh no!”
                        con? tinued the latter, horror?stricken at
                    finding that they were to be the means of driving the old man from his sweet and
                    peaceful home;—“ you must not go,—you cannot leave a place you have loved so
                    well.”
                “I love him more than all upon this earth,” said Mr. Clayton,
                    pointing to his son; “and yet I leave him for conscience sake. Therefore the
                    love of this home shall not detain me, though you said truly that it has been
                    very dear to me.”—He looked towards the church as he spoke, with quivering lips,
                    and then continued, after a moment’s silence,—“ I may still believe and hope
                    that the unnumbered prayers I have uttered within these sacred walls for him
                    have not all been said in vain. Thank Heaven, I need not scruple to come to you,
                    were you in sickness or in sorrow: suffering casts down all barriers for the
                    servant of Him who in all our afflictions was afflicted. Meantime, do not think
                    to change my resolution in any way; there is but one path opened for me in this,
                    as in all other earthly trials—the path of duty—and that alone will I follow.”
                Agnes turned away, weeping bitterly. Richard flung himself into a chair, and hid
                    his face on his arm. There was a painful silence for a few minutes, till Mr.
                    Clayton spoke again.
                “I have yet a painful task to perform,” he 
                    said; “I have to request a favour of you both, which you can only grant with a
                    great sacrifice to yourselves, but which I might, perhaps, claim as a right.”
                “We will refuse you nothing,” said Richard, in a voice hoarse from agitation;
                    “you may ask what you will of us.”
                “Oh yes,” exclaimed Agnes, “give us the means of making some sacrifice for you
                    who have made such an one for us!”
                They were rewarded for these words by the look of tenderness which Mr. Clayton
                    cast upon them both; but he went on:—
                “Mary Clayton is my god?child,” he said; “I am responsible for her spiritual
                    welfare, and, as her grandfather, deeply interested also in her temporal
                    concerns. Agnes, it grieves me to utter so painful a truth, but I am compelled
                    to tell you that I must now consider you as wholly unfit to have the charge of
                    this child, and that it would be highly injurious to her interests, both earthly
                    and eternal, were she to remain with you. Her prospects in this world would be
                    seriously affected by it. It is perfectly clear to me that you have never either
                    of you viewed the matter in this light,—that you are altogether unaware how
                    severely your conduct will be denounced in society. Would that you had known it!
                    it might have deterred you from the step you
                    have taken;—but at least this innocent child must not suffer. You, Agnes, have
                    lived for two years in the house of the man whom you have now thought fit to
                    marry; you could only do so,—you only obtained my sanction for so doing, on the
                    ground that he was your brother. Had you continued to consider him
                    as such, not the faintest breath of slander could have reached your name, even
                    though such a letter as that of Mr. Hardman compelled you to leave your home.
                    But you have not done so. Since you have now married him, it is impossible that
                    you can ever have looked upon him as your brother,—at least so must the world
                    conclude. If you cast aside the relationship, they must do so also,—nay, Heaven
                    forbid it should now be supposed to exist!” he added, with a slight shudder, as
                    his eye fell on Agnes’ wedding?ring. “I leave you, therefore, to draw your own
                    conclusion as to the opinion that will be formed of your conduct, in residing
                    for so long a period alone with the person to whom you are now united; and from
                    that you may also clearly perceive what a fatal influence it might have on
                    Mary’s whole existence, that she should be educated by you.”
                “Do you really mean,” interrupted Richard, “that our marriage will be so strongly
                    disapproved of by society in general,—by any, in  fact, excepting, perhaps, a few clergymen like
                    yourself?”
                “I fear you will not have to ask me that question a month or two hence,” replied
                    Mr. Clayton. “I feel certain you will have but too many palpable proofs of the
                    truth of my words. However fearfully corrupt may be the internal machinery of
                    society, they yet have outwardly a code of laws, against which they allow none
                    to rebel with impunity.”
                It was evident that this idea was as new as it was bitter to Richard. He saw at
                    once, that if his marriage was a sin against the world’s rule of propriety, he
                    might expect to be visited with no light punishment. He literally groaned as he
                    thought of what he had done, and of what was to come. The union he had
                    contracted, suddenly appeared before him in the light of an irretrievable
                    mistake. Agnes saw what was passing in his mind; and no words can describe how
                    her heart died within her.
                “And now,” said Mr. Clayton, “I have shown you why, in a worldly point of view,
                    it is necessary that Mary should not remain with you. I have myself far higher
                    motives for requiring of you that she should be entrusted to my own care. I dare
                    not, Agnes, consider you fit, at least at present, to guide an immortal soul in
                    that most difficult and painful course  of
                    bitter self?denial which alone can bring us to the feet of the Crucified. In the
                    most important occasion of your life, you have preferred your own will to the
                    will of God. You have thrown off the yoke of the Saviour, who bade you serve Him
                    in suffering. You have trampled under foot the cross which He presented before
                    you, in the heavy trial laid upon you, to quit all most dear on earth, rather
                    than remain with them by means of an unhallowed alliance. You will say you did
                    not know that the course you took was so wrong;—how wrong it was, I
                    believe, in truth, you did not dream; but that you had more than misgivings on
                    the subject, is sufficiently proved by the fact that you concealed it from me.
                    Had you felt but one conscientious earnest desire to do what was right, at the
                    expense of any amount of pain to yourself; you would have consulted Mr. Lambert,
                    or myself, and you know that we would have prohibited your doing as you have
                    done. You will say you did it for the sake of Richard’s children, but I ask by
                    what right you did evil that good might come? How did you dare to doubt, that He
                    who carries the lambs in his bosom would have cared for these little ones? But I
                    spare you; only I must repeat and enforce my request, that you submit to a
                    separation from Mary, and that  you entrust
                    her entirely to my care. I demand this sacrifice of you. My sister, Mrs.
                    Harewood, has consented to come and reside with me in order to take charge of
                    her; you need have no fear for the dear child’s welfare.” He paused waiting for
                    a reply. Richard rose instantly.
                “Agnes, you must not dream of hesitating one instant; he shall have the child. I
                    would rather never see her again, than that my innocent daughter should suffer
                    by any imprudence of yours—or mine,” he added more gently, as he saw her start
                    with the pang his words had caused. “It is better clearly that Mary should go to
                    her grandfather,” continued Richard, bitterly; “we have had a specimen these
                    last two days as to the manner in which the mind of a child may be worked upon;
                    I have no doubt that in a very little time we should find the sacrifice far less
                    severe than it seems to us at present; her health is besides well established
                    now—it was for my little son that I was chiefly desirous to secure your care;
                    there is, therefore, no reason why I should scruple to give my free and full
                    consent, and I wish that the matter should be settled at once.” And it was so
                    decided.
                Agnes offered no opposition, she was utterly bewildered and overwhelmed with all
                    that had passed, she did not even remind him of what rose  so painfully to her own mind at the moment, that by
                    giving up Mary, however advisable such a measure might be, they were rendering
                    altogether null the one potent argument which had principally induced them to
                    marry, namely, the absolute necessity of the children being left to her care!
                    She said nothing of this, although it proved to her how weak and sophistical had
                    been the reasoning with which they had quieted their consciences, for she felt
                    crushed to the very earth with the painful thoughts that were crowding on her.
                    The whole affair had been shown to her in a new and terrible light; she had
                    acted thoughtlessly, recklessly; and now all was most different from what she
                    had expected, her heart was full of a bitter dread for the consequences,
                    enduring even to her life’s end, of the deed she had done. She could not collect
                    her ideas, or bring her mind thoroughly to understand her position; she had a
                    sort of feeling as though she had been hardly dealt with; she had always
                    anticipated a happy and an honoured life as a kind of right; gay and beautiful
                    as she had ever been, she had looked upon admiration and affection as her due;
                    and now, she scarce knew how, she found herself in a situation where it would
                    seem that not only trial, but disgrace was to be her portion.
                Agnes was too much absorbed with a miser? able
                    foreboding of future suffering to herself, to find any difficulty in submitting
                    to her husband’s decision that Mary should be taken from her; and when the
                    matter was thus finally arranged, Richard Clayton and his wife left the Vicarage
                    to enter it no more.
                Mr. Clayton dismissed them with one parting injunction, addressed chiefly to
                    Agnes. He implored them if sorrow or suffering came upon them, more especially
                    if penitence came—as he prayed it might—to apply at once to Mr. Lambert, and to
                    open their griefs to him; doubtless the Curate would not countenance them now,
                    but in their distress he would be a valuable and faithful friend. They saw that
                    the old man murmured a blessing as they passed him, but Richard was in no humour
                    to feel softened by it: he drew Agnes almost roughly from the room, and they
                    quitted the house that had been as a home to them, with downcast eyes and
                    sorrowful hearts.
                Agnes Clayton had never been accustomed, as we have said before, to control her
                    feelings. She did not remember, that there is a profound selfishness in allowing
                    those around us to be saddened with the aspect of our suffering; there is enough
                    of sorrow in this world without our adding to it by constraining others to feel
                    for us a painful sympathy. We have a  Friend
                    most merciful, to whom we may pour out the bitterness of our soul; but let us
                    ever walk among men with calm face and serene aspect, whatever may be our
                    internal anguish, lest haply we cast a shadow over the sunshine which He hath
                    given them. She had no thought for this; as soon as they had entered their own
                    house, she went and flung herself upon a sofa, and burst into a passion of
                    tears. It could not be an agreeable sight for Richard to see her there; her face
                    disfigured with weeping, her frame convulsed with sobs. He had followed her into
                    the room, in the hope that her cheerful voice and loving eyes might have
                    dispelled the gloom that hung upon him; when he saw how she thought only of
                    indulging her grief he turned abruptly and went out. Agnes loved him well and
                    truly, but she had not for him that noble affection which would have made her
                    rather die of her inward agony than let him suffer by it.
                Richard took a long walk, but solitude was unsupportable to him, and he returned
                    towards evening, trusting to find his house restored to cheerfulness and
                    comfort. Agnes still lay in the same position; her tangled hair falling over her
                    face stained with tears, and for the time devoid of beauty. The room was dark
                    and cold, the whole establishment in confusion. Richard was violent in temper, and he was not a man to submit easily to
                    annoyance or vexation. He walked up to Agnes, and taking her angrily by the arm,
                    he forced her to raise herself up. She trembled when she saw the expression of
                    his countenance, and still more when he spoke, his voice was so stern and harsh.
                “Agnes,” he said, “let me beg of you to tell me once for all, whether you intend
                    to render my life insupportable by this absurd and intolerable conduct? Instead
                    of the gaiety and cheerfulness which made you attractive to me formerly, do you
                    mean henceforward to regale me with scenes such as these, tears and ill humour,
                    discomfort and confusion throughout the house?”
                Agnes felt her face crimson at these words, with a feeling of something very like
                    anger.
                “Have I nothing to make me sorrowful?” she asked, reproachfully.
                “Not half so much as I have, at all events,” replied Richard; “but that is not
                    the question. I wish to tell you most plainly that I will not submit for one
                    hour to have a dismal companion at my side, complaining and groaning. I will
                    give you your choice. You have your room, where you may go and weep and pine as
                    much as you please, but there you must stay. You  shall either appear before me with a look of
                    cheerfulness at all times on your face, or else you shall not come into my
                    presence at all. In the one case, I shall have you merry and bright as you were
                    before; in the other, I may try to forget your existence—so make your choice.”
                Agnes was completely subdued. She fancied that Richard was cruel to her, but
                    still he was her husband, and she loved him. It was a mockery to say that he
                    gave her any choice; she had no alternative; she could not go and shut herself
                    up from him; she must submit to wear ever a smile as gay as her heart was sad.
                    It was with a dreary sense of desolation that she thought how she must drive
                    back all her feelings within her own breast, and never hope for the sympathy
                    which, with her naturally frank disposition, she would so earnestly have sought;
                    but her womanly powers of endurance came to her assistance. She scarce knew with
                    what a strength of determination she at that moment resolved, henceforward, to
                    bear all in silence. She was driven to it, partly by pride, partly by a helpless
                    feeling of submission. She looked up, she dashed the tears from her eyes, and
                    said calmly:—
                “I will endeavour to please you; you need not be afraid; I will look sad no
                    more.” She  said this with a bitter conviction
                    of his unkindness—with a sullen morbid feeling rankling at her heart; and
                    Richard understood, readily enough, what was passing in her mind, but from that
                    hour she obeyed him so implicitly to the letter, that it was impossible for him
                    to find fault with the thoughts which he could only guess to be in her heart;
                    and, as a natural result, a sort of indefinite estrangement rose up between
                    them. So commenced the married life of Elizabeth’s husband and sister.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                MR. CLAYTON left B— the following week, and Mr. Lambert duly
                    communicated to all the parishioners the reasons which had induced him so to do.
                    The event made a most powerful impression on them all. Their Vicar could not
                    have taken any step which could have brought more strongly before them his
                    uncompromising submission to the call of duty whenever it demanded the surrender
                    of his own will, and also his deep disapprobation of that act of his son’s which
                    he was compelled thus openly to reprobate—but he was greatly beloved. His
                    departure was bitterly lamented, and a strong feeling against Richard and Agnes
                    soon pervaded the village. What Mr. Clayton condemned, his people felt must be
                    very wrong, and the marriage was loudly spoken against by all.
                Never had Mr. Sharp enjoyed a season of such exquisite repose as that which
                    followed the departure of the Vicar from B—. This event would alone, at any
                    time, have been sufficient to have engrossed the mind of his energetic wife, and
                    provided her with a fund of matter whereon to 
                    exercise her conversational powers; but the circumstances attending it, the
                    unlawful marriage, and the indignation which was felt against Richard and Agnes,
                    were indeed to her sources of absorbing delight and occupation, such as she had
                    seldom known. With ineffable satisfaction her husband saw her sally forth every
                    morning, without having even remembered to take that peculiar cognizance of his
                    own proceedings for the day, which often inspired him with a wild and frantic
                    desire to embark forthwith for New Zealand, or to fly and endeavour to make a
                    fortune in Kamtschatka. Mr. Sharp might do as he pleased now; he might have
                    written a letter every day to his client without her looking over his shoulder,
                    and he might have drawn up ever so many marriage contracts without her even
                    asking who the parties were. Mrs. Sharp was far too busy to think of him at all;
                    and not only she ceased for the time to watch over his affairs, but she resigned
                    all thought of attending to his comforts. This was, however, one of the
                    conditions of his unwonted peace to which that greatly persecuted gentleman was
                    too happy to agree, and no one interfered with the excited lady in the pursuit
                    of her present delightful occupation.
                What in truth could be more charming than to go from house to house, informing
                    every one  that, after the most reprehensible
                    conduct of Agnes, it would be impossible to visit her, or to acknowledge her
                    acquaintance? Agnes! the haughty and exclusive person, who had refused to call
                    upon her! Mrs. Sharp had such really substantial grounds for all
                    she said, that she was listened to with more attention than she usually met
                    with.
                There was one painful idea, which had long been floating in the minds of those
                    acquainted with the circumstances, which Mrs. Sharp now assisted in ripening
                    into certainty—it was the belief that Elizabeth’s melancholy death had been
                    occasioned by her jealousy of her husband and sister. Such being the case,
                    nothing certainly could seem more revolting than the whole conduct of Agnes and
                    Richard; and even the most charitable of their neighhours could not but think
                    that they were not only devoid of all principle, but heartless and indelicate to
                    the last degree, in thus speedily reaping the fruits of her death in their
                    unblest union, and returning, without remorse or fear, to the very home where
                    she had dwelt whom they had sent to her grave by so cruel a means. Mrs. Sharp
                    loved to expatiate on these points with a warm enthusiasm, but she found that
                    her eloquence was scarcely required to heighten the universal indignation. And
                    then she would  rush out to waylay Mr. Lambert
                    at every corner, and detain him for a whole half hour, while she condoled with
                    him on having so much to do since Mr. Clayton’s departure, or comforted him by
                    assuring him that he might do what he would, but that he never could make up to
                    the people for their good old Vicar. He was far too young, so it was no fault of
                    his; but she had no doubt he would kill himself in trying, for he looked very
                    ill, and she did not think he had long to live; but if he did die, they would at
                    least know at whose door to lay his death. It was Richard Clayton who would be
                    guilty of it, as he had sent away his father, besides all the other mischief he
                    had done.
                At first Richard and Agnes were scarcely aware of the universal condemnation of
                    their union. They had become more cheerful, in the hope that their father had
                    exaggerated the extent to which they would be lowered in the opinion of the
                    world; but they soon found that he had spoken but too truly; his own proceedings
                    with regard to them had rendered it necessary for all persons of any weight in
                    the society of the neighhourhood to adopt a marked line of conduct in the
                    matter; and their decision was soon made. They were by birth and education
                    entitled to delicacy of feeling; and Mr. Clayton had not been for  so many years their pastor without instilling into
                    their minds somewhat of his purity and strictness of principle. They determined
                    that the brother and sister?in?law, now man and wife, were not to be visited or
                    received; and the few influenced the many: it became the fashion to slight them
                    as it had been the fashion to court them, and they were cut off from all
                    society, except of such persons as they did not care to associate with. This
                    trial, which to some minds would have been a light evil, was to them a most
                    serious and grievous distress; it galled the proud spirit of Richard; it wounded
                    the morbid sensibility of Agnes; it deprived them both of the excitement and
                    amusement, without which they felt as though they could not exist. Richard
                    became irritable and fretful; his wife was weighed down by a heavy despondency
                    which she sought to hide under a forced unnatural gaiety.
                After a time Agnes determined to enliven her dreary hours at least by resuming
                    her visits in the village. Her mind had been so much preoccupied for some time
                    past that she had neglected her poorer friends completely; but she had always
                    been beloved and respected amongst them. She felt that now, humble as they were,
                    even their homage and attention would be soothing to her.
                
                On a beautiful mourning in the early spring, she went out into the village,
                    nothing doubting that she would be received as she had always been; for she and
                    her husband had never thought of inquiring into the opinion of their humbler
                    neighbours respecting their conduct. The first person she went to visit, was old
                    Martha Hyans, who, with her husband, were parishioners of long standing in the
                    village of B—. This good old couple exhibited in their lives a practical
                    refutation of the saying, that love cannot exist in a cottage, more especially
                    if it be allied to poverty. The little hut where they dwelt had been decked,
                    fifty years before, for their wedding?day; and the love that bound them, now
                    wrinkled and decrepit as they were, was fresh and pure as in their prime of
                    youth and joy. They had gone through many trials together in that narrow space,
                    but never had an unkind word passed the lips of either. Poor Elizabeth had often
                    felt that she might have learnt a valuable lesson from old Martha’s patient and
                    tried affection; and now, of this good old woman’s many trials, it seemed to her
                    that one of the greatest was Mr. Clayton’s departure. He had baptized her
                    children, and laid more than one of them in their graves. She had verily trusted
                    that he should have closed her eyes also. But he was gone; and  she knew perfectly well that he had good reasons for
                    going. She never doubted that everything he did was right at all times; but in
                    this instance, simple and humble as she was, her own opinion and feelings
                    perfectly coincided with his. Her childlike, unbiassed mind revolted against the
                    union of Richard and his wife’s sister.
                Agnes perceived the change in the old woman’s feelings towards her, the moment
                    she entered the house. Martha was civil; but she manifested not the slightest
                    pleasure on seeing her. She did not ask her advice, or detail her grievances,
                    and positively declined accepting various little comforts which Agnes proposed
                    to send her. The only words she spoke were, to inquire after the children, in a
                    tone dearly full of profound commiseration for the little ones. She shook her
                    head when Agnes volunteered the information that Richard was well, as though she
                    thought he had no right to be so; and then sat sighing and lifting up her eyes
                    in the most eloquent manner. Agnes made one last attempt to induce her to speak,
                    by quoting the Litany, which Martha was in the habit of repeating from beginning
                    to end, for the edification of her visitors; but even this tempting bait had no
                    allurements to?day. She remained unmoved; and Agnes angrily left the house,  with the determination never to enter it
                    again. She could not, however, yet believe it possible that she was exiled from
                    the society of the village, as well as that of the higher classes. She
                    attributed Martha’s conduct merely to her peculiar attachment for Mr. Clayton,
                    and trusted to find matters very different in the other cottages where she was
                    going.
                Her next visit was to Mrs. Savage, the hard?featured, large?handed Mrs. Savage,
                    who was singularly unfortunate in appearance (to the annoyance of all lovers of
                    the picturesque, as her little dwelling was beyond measure charming and
                    romantic), and who appeared for the last twenty years to have been engaged in
                    the care of a huge baby, who never grew, and never became a day older,—a
                    phenomenon which was to be accounted for by the fact that she was constantly
                    supplied with a succession of grandchildren, who, after a certain troublesome
                    age, were removed, to be replaced with another just entering on it.
                In the house of this good woman poor Agnes fared much worse than with Martha.
                    Mrs. Savage did not scruple to tell her openly all she thought and felt, and all
                    that was thought and felt by her neighbours, on the subject of Richard’s second
                    marriage; and Agnes brought the visit speedily to a conclusion, by hurrying  out to hide the indignant tears that rose to
                    her eyes as she listened.
                She walked along the road towards The Mount, her heart swelling within her, and
                    as she passed on she perceived Thomas, the clerk and schoolmaster, the most
                    respectful and estimable of men, coming towards her. Instead of approaching to
                    give her all the details of the progress of her class or of the choir, he passed
                    on the other side with merely a grave salutation, which sufficiently proved to
                    her that henceforward the doors of the school were closed against her.
                She had to pass yet another cottage before reaching home; it was one of the
                    humblest in B—, and was the abode of a poor imbecile creature, known in the
                    village by the name of Jack, who lived in it with his old mother. He was
                    perfectly harmless in his idiotcy, and was allowed to wander about at will, even
                    within the grounds of The Mount. It was in fact his favourite resort, as Agnes
                    took a particular interest in him, and always treated him with the utmost
                    kindness. She used to bring him his food herself, that she might teach him to
                    recognise her; and now when he saw her, he never failed to greet her with his
                    wild laugh of discordant glee. Jack was seated at the door of his house as she
                    approached, and starting  up, he ran to meet
                    her with a shout of delight. She stopped to speak to him, and he stood joyfully
                    before her, clapping his hands, and muttering in his own senseless language his
                    unintelligible expressions of pleasure.
                Poor Jack was little aware of the pang which he caused to Agnes at that moment,
                    for there was in truth a most bitter sting in the thought that his was the first
                    smile of kindness and the first words of welcome which had been bestowed upon
                        her that day, who formerly had been so warmly received by all.
                    No sterner lesson could have been given to her than this one fact, that she had
                    been shunned and scorned as one who had done an unholy deed, by all save this
                    poor idiot, to whom it had pleased Heaven to deny the knowledge of right and
                    wrong!
                The bitter experience of this day was quite enough. Agnes now understood what was
                    in fact the truth, that the poor people of the village had lost all respect for
                    her, and that consequently her influence amongst them was gone for ever. The
                    casualties of birth and education are by no means sufficient to command the
                    esteem of the lower orders. They are keen and penetrating judges as to what is
                    really estimable in the character of their superiors, and thoroughly alive to
                    any inconsistency in their precepts and practice. The villagers of B—  thought that Agnes had greatly erred, and
                    therefore it would have been in vain for her to have talked to them of the
                    errors of their own ways; whilst some of the younger girls possibly found no
                    small excuse for levity in their conduct from the fact, that even the lady at
                    The Mount had thought the Vicar’s notions on the subject of marriage so very
                    strict, that she had distinctly acted against them. Agnes felt all this, and
                    though perhaps in her secret heart she acknowledged its justice, it was yet with
                    a proud indignation that she determined never again to visit a single person in
                    the village.
                The annoyance which all these circumstances caused to Richard and his wife is not
                    to be told. On the fiery temper and undisciplined mind of the former especially,
                    the effect was most grievous. He now found himself deprived of all the amusement
                    which hunting and similar occupations had afforded him, for he was far too proud
                    ever to place himself voluntarily in the society of those who would no longer
                    admit him to their houses. Wounded to the uttermost by the treatment he had met
                    with, he shut himself up entirely in his own house, and gave way to a sullen,
                    discontented state of mind, which was most distressing to all around him. A man
                    without employment is always a miserable individual, and he had no intellectual
                        resources. He betook himself to amusements
                    which were frivolous and useless, if not pernicious; and much of his time, which
                    now hung so heavily on his hands, was spent in exercising a most harassing
                    control over his household. He occupied himself with all the little petty
                    arrangements and minor details on which it was painful to see the strong mind of
                    a man engaged; and it almost seemed as though he sought to compensate himself
                    for the humiliations he met with in the world, by his overbearing treatment of
                    his wife and servants.
                In the midst of all this misery, for it was misery both to Agnes and Richard,
                    though no positive misfortune had as yet befallen them, a gleam of sunshine came
                    to revive their hearts in the birth of a son,—an event which soon banished all
                    their regrets for the absence of Mary, who had long since been removed from her
                    father’s house, to enter it no more for years.
                On the other poor infant, the son of Elizabeth, Agnes had in truth bestowed the
                    utmost care and attention ever since her marriage. It had been chiefly on his
                    account that they had taken this step, which in all other respects had proved so
                    unfortunate; and it seemed to her an imperative duty to render it productive of
                    good results to this child at least. With unremitting tenderness she had
                    therefore watched  over him; all the careful
                    affection which Richard had trusted she would bestow upon his son, and which he
                    had married her partly to ensure, she did, indeed, give to the infant, whose
                    health had greatly improved; and now, as though to show how very vainly (as well
                    as sinfully) we would seek to interfere with the Providence of God, by doing
                    evil that good may come, and what madness it is to follow any other course save
                    that of rigid duty, (leaving the result submissively in His hands,) the little
                    child was suddenly taken from them. There had been no neglect, no illness even
                    to cause them any apprehension; but unexpectedly one night he was seized with
                    convulsions, and died whilst they stood helpless beside him. With a brief
                    struggle his brief life closed. Pure and innocent he went with his baptismal
                    cross yet shining on his brow, to join his brethren who had borne theirs through
                    the burden and heat of the day.
                It was impossible for Richard and Agnes, as they stood looking down upon that
                    infant face—sublime now, because of the holy peace that was stamped upon it—not
                    to perceive how clearly the sin and folly of their deed was pointed out to them
                    in this bereavement. They had acted against the laws of God and man for the sake
                    of these children; the one they had 
                    themselves delivered up to their father’s charge, and the other had now been
                    taken to a Care more tender still. No good could now result from their union to
                    these or to any other; but themselves must reap its bitter fruits. And from that
                    hour Richard and his wife repented them of the deed which they had
                    done, because the world had visited them heavily for it; but they repented not
                    yet of the crime, for the judgment of God was still to come.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                SEVENTEEN years had passed away since the birth of Edward Clayton, the
                    only child of Richard and Agnes, when Mr. Clayton died. His life had been
                    greatly protracted, doubtless, because he laboured well in the vineyard of the
                    Lord; but at length his weary feet were arrested at the gate of the heavenly
                    fold; his aged form was laid down to rest among the green pastures and by the
                    still waters. Mary Clayton knelt beside his coffin, looking for the last time on
                    his serene face; restored now to the look of innocence and of placid rest which
                    only guileless infants and the dead can know; but she shed no tears whilst she
                    laid her cheek upon his cold stiff hand, for she dared not weep for him.
                She had been his chief thought and care; for the last years of his life he had
                    but one wish respecting her, and that was to educate in her a true and devoted
                    servant for his Master. He set before himself, as the type of what he desired
                    her to be, a lily of the field—humble, spotless,  having but slender root in the earth; giving no
                    fragrance to the world around, but lifting up the sweet head ever towards
                    heaven:—and she became such. His tenderness and prayers were not in vain. Deep
                    set within her heart was the desire to keep herself blameless against the coming
                    of our Lord. In disposition she was meek, gentle, and unselfish; but her
                    grandfather saw that she inherited all her mother’s acuteness of feeling and
                    intensity of affection, and from this peculiarity in her character he rightly
                    judged that her trials in life would spring. He sought then to fortify her
                    beforehand for that struggle, which sooner or later comes to us all, of our
                    human wishes and feelings with our sworn allegiance to the cross; for none ever
                    sought in sincerity to follow Him, but at some one period of their existence
                    they are called on to suffer for His sake. Mr. Clayton saw with delight that on
                    Mary his lessons were not thrown away; and he died in peace at last, with the
                    firm conviction, that whatever might be her fate in this world, she would never
                    accept the highest joys it could offer if they involved a dereliction from duty.
                Very different had been the education and very different was now the character of
                    Edward Clayton, Mary’s half?brother, whom she had seen only at rare intervals.
                    He resembled his father in disposition; he was clever, impetuous,  and wilful—proud to the very uttermost; and he had
                    become profoundly selfish. His was precisely one of those characters which,
                    rightly controlled and judiciously guided, might have been moulded to great
                    excellence. Had he been drawn to follow and to seek after the good, he would
                    have struggled on in the right path with all the energy of his ardent mind; but
                    he was left to pursue the bent of his own inclination, and he turned reckless
                    and unthinking to evil.
                It may seem strange that the only child of parents yet living should have been
                    abandoned to the fatal guidance of his own will; but it arose from the fact,
                    that although outwardly they held him in control, they had lost all moral
                    influence over him so soon as he was of an age to gather from the remarks of the
                    servants and the taunts of his schoolfellows in what light esteem they
                    themselves were held by the world in general; from that hour he lost all respect
                    for them, and they became powerless to sway his mind for right or
                    wrong, however much they might regulate his outward actions. There is no
                    observer more keen and acute than a shrewd and clever child. Edward soon
                    understood that his parents were exiled from society solely on account of their
                    own conduct; he saw that they were not treated with the same consideration as
                    the relations of his companions at school; he learnt that his own grandfather had been driven from the
                    village because he would not countenance his son, and that his sister had been
                    taken away because his mother was deemed an unfit guide for her. Mr. Lambert,
                    revered and respected by the whole neighbourhood, never visited his father; he
                    himself was sent to church with a servant only, because his parents were too
                    proud and too ashamed to face, in that holy place, all those who so openly
                    disapproved of their conduct, and therefore seldom went there, thinking too
                    little of the guilt they were incurring by neglecting so inestimable a
                    privilege. Was it not, therefore, inevitable that when Agnes and Richard
                    attempted to enforce upon their son the necessity of religious principle and
                    self?discipline, he could only treat their effort as a mockery? Still deeper,
                    however, lay the cause which rendered it impossible for Edward to feel either
                    respect or esteem for his parents—it 
                        lay
                        ay
                     in the dissension and misery which reigned in his own home, in the
                    mutual recriminations and disagreements which seemed to have taken the place of
                    the affection that had once subsisted between his father and mother.
                Richard Clayton had become embittered to the very last degree by the results of
                    what he now termed his most unfortunate marriage. After the birth of Edward,
                    when he saw how  completely he was cut off
                    from society, he was very anxious to go abroad, and seek acquaintances in some
                    part of the world where his name was not known. But his circumstances rendered
                    it quite out of the question for him to think of leaving B—; he had nothing to
                    depend upon but the allowance which his father still continued to give him; and
                    as The Mount was Mr. Clayton’s property, where he allowed him to reside, free of
                    expense, he could not have lived in the same manner elsewhere. He was,
                    therefore, compelled to remain where every day and hour he was subjected to
                    treatment most galling to his haughty spirit. The sinful pride which restrained
                    himself and Agnes from entering the church door, augmented very much the
                    discomfort of their position: it prevented the possibility of any softening of
                    the severity with which the world had visited his conduct. It was quite
                    impossible for Mr. Lambert to hold any intercourse with persons who showed so
                    pernicious an example to the poor of his parish—who had, in fact, removed
                    themselves from communion with the Church; and his open disapprobation was
                    necessarily imitated by the parishioners, who held him in such high esteem.
                Mr. and Mrs. Clayton were, probably, not altogether aware how great was the sin
                    they committed in allowing an unholy pride to debar  them of the means of grace. Richard had always been
                    careless respecting these things; and now his inward uneasiness and bitterness
                    of spirit, which arose, though he admitted it not, from the smitings of an
                    unquiet conscience, had rendered him sneering, and well?nigh sceptical, on the
                    subject of religion. It is no uncommon case, when a man has wilfully sinned
                    against the light, that he should seek for a refuge in the falsehood which calls
                    it darkness.
                Richard Clayton had taken his first step in the downward course, when he placed
                    his foot within the church where Agnes became his wife; and the descent was
                    becoming daily more abrupt and easy, although he was himself, perhaps, scarce
                    aware of the danger in which he stood, when he began to find relief and
                    satisfaction in scoffing at what he had once at least held sacred. Even Agnes
                    had not learnt, in her fashionable Parisian school, to attach much value to
                    Church principles. Both now resented very strongly the judgment of public
                    opinion, which consigned them, in the midst of a populous neighbourhood, to an
                    exile as complete as though they had been sent to the wilds of Siberia. But this
                    resentment Richard vented on his wife, being unable to give it scope elsewhere.
                A torturing conviction took possession of his mind, that the consequences of his
                    marriage  were to follow him throughout his
                    life, in every possible shape in which misfortune could visit him. He felt
                    certain that it would cause the failure 
                        of
                        ef
                     every scheme and every hope,—that it would pursue him, to his
                    continual vexation and annoyance, and would finally hunt him down, as it were,
                    to a dishonoured and untimely end. This idea, which really became a species of
                    monomania, caused him to acquire an irritable dislike to Agnes, which he made
                    her feel every hour of the day. During Edward’s childhood, it sufficed that his
                    mother had given him some order, for the father to reverse it,—a system which
                    would ruin any child; and as the boy grew up, when Richard perceived that his
                    son openly showed how little respect he felt for the parents whom he heard
                    universally slighted and condemned, his father declared it was but a part of the
                    fatality which had pursued him since his Union with Agnes; and he recklessly
                    abandoned Edward, without an attempt to reclaim him, to the evil course which he
                    began so early.
                Edward found that his own position in the world was seriously injured by that of
                    his father; and whilst he nourished a most unhallowed anger against his parents
                    for what he considered an injury inflicted on him by them, he was too proud to
                    court the acquaintance of those who shunned him; and therefore flung  himself, without restraint, into the only society
                    which was open to him,—that of low and dissipated company.
                It was impossible for the father and mother not to tremble at the course which it
                    seemed likely would be taken by their only son. They had made no attempt to
                    place him in any profession, because Richard had been so completely severed from
                    all connexion with the world that he would have found great difficulty in
                    opening out for him any honourable career. Edward was his grandfather’s heir,
                    and therefore, in a pecuniary point of view, it was not necessary that he should
                    find any means of existence for himself; but both Richard and Agnes were
                    passionately attached to their son, and keenly alive to the incalculable evils
                    which would probably result to him from their unhappy position. This feeling
                    produced, however, a very different effect upon the minds of each. In Richard it
                    only increased to an alarming extent the gloomy morbid despondency in which he
                    indulged, under the belief that all was to go wrong with him henceforward, and
                    which paralyzed him so much, that he made no attempt to rectify the evil fruits
                    of his own action, though he failed not bitterly to reproach Agnes as the cause
                    of it all. Mrs. Clayton meantime felt that her husband was both unjust and
                    cruel,  in accusing her so harshly of the
                    consequences of that which she had done at his own solicitation for the sake of
                    his own children. But there was now in the midst of her trials a
                    dawning of better feeling than she had ever been blessed with in happier days.
                That is a beautiful provision of nature, which causes the purest and tenderest
                    affections of our humanity to be very often the instruments for awakening in our
                    souls a holier love. In the deep anxiety and terror which the mother felt lest
                    her only son should suffer by her former conduct, she was led to turn
                    imploringly to Him who alone could avert the evil she dreaded. But she could not
                    approach the Throne of all Purity without looking also into her own life, and
                    learning how far she had erred and strayed from His ways. Her heart was full of
                    penitence, but she was too much bewildered by the mists and obscurity of a life
                    of negligence and sin, to understand as yet what the Lord would have her to do,
                    and how, if she could not retrieve the past, she might at least sanctify the
                    future by deep submission and repentance. She longed earnestly to apply to Mr.
                    Lambert for counsel and instruction; but she dared not do it—she dared not brave
                    the fierce anger which she knew such a proceeding would  awaken in her husband. In like manner she would now
                    gladly have gone to church, though she did not even yet appreciate either the
                    duty or the privilege of worshipping in His courts; but this was equally
                    impossible—Richard would never have permitted it. Remorse and uncertainty for
                    herself, and profound anxiety for her son, rendered Agnes Clayton a miserable
                    being.
                Such was the condition of the inhabitants of The Mount at the period of Mr.
                    Clayton’s death. But immediately on this event there followed another, which
                    gave Mr. and Mrs. Clayton the first moment of joy, real heartfelt joy, which
                    they had known for years. Intelligence was brought them of the approaching
                    marriage of Mary Clayton with one to whom it was most desirable, under every
                    point of view, that she should be united.
                Mr. Verney was the heir and future representative of a most ancient and noble
                    house. He was the only child of Lord and Lady Verney, who were chiefly
                    remarkable for the pride of birth, which was to them almost a hereditary
                    possession. Forgetting how their name would avail them nothing in the dust,
                    their whole thoughts and hopes and schemes in this life were given to maintain
                    the honour of that which had come to them unstained through a long line of
                        ances? try. In their only son, as was to
                    be expected, all their plans and wishes were centred. Their pride and their
                    ancient title were allied to a poverty which they held to be a most unseemly
                    condition for the members of so noble a family; and it was their favourite
                    project that he should make some wealthy alliance, which should restore them to
                    their former grandeur; at the same time, no desire for riches could have induced
                    them to overlook the necessity that the wife of their son should bear a name, if
                    not as noble, at least as honourable and unsullied as their own. It was their
                    wish that she should be possessed of rank also, and for this reason they were at
                    first highly displeased when they perceived that their son had formed a very
                    serious attachment with Mary Clayton, whose grandfather’s residence was close to
                    their own. Gradually, however, they became somewhat more reconciled to the idea
                    that she was to be their daughter?in?law, not because she was in herself
                    everything they could wish, but because they believed her to be the heiress of
                    all Mr. Clayton’s property: and they were also well aware, that though not of
                    noble birth, he was of a good old family, and of a most honourable reputation.
                    Of the existence of her father, mother?in?law, and brother, they knew nothing
                    whatever; Mary never mentioned them, know? ing
                    how painful the subject was to her grandfather; and he himself never allowed
                    those names to pass his lips which he sent up hourly in prayer to heaven.
                If Mr. Clayton had entertained the slightest idea that Mr. Verney wished to marry
                    his granddaughter, he would at once have stated the whole circumstances of his
                    son’s second marriage and present position to Lord Verney, with which it was in
                    fact impossible he could be acquainted, as the family had resided abroad until
                    lately. But the good old Vicar was far too unworldly and simple?minded to think
                    of such an occurrence at all; he could scarce have believed that his little Mary
                    had left her childhood so far behind her. And his death, somewhat unexpected at
                    the last, occurred before Mr. Verney had taken any steps for arranging the
                    matter beyond his own secret determination.
                When Mr. Clayton died, Lady Verney, at her son’s solicitation, persuaded Mary to
                    leave the house where she was now quite alone (as Mrs. Harewood had died some
                    years previously), and conveyed her to their own home, to remain with them till
                    her future plans were arranged.
                Mary then communicated to them the fact, that her father was living, and that she
                    had decided, of course, on returning to his house.
                This intelligence was rather startling to Lord 
                    and Lady Verney, but as Mary herself had been kept very much in ignorance of the
                    circumstances of her family, they still believed that her grandfather must have
                    left her a large fortune, and at all events, the universal lamentations which
                    his death called forth from high and low, sufficiently proved that his virtues
                    had rendered an alliance with her in truth, an honour. They therefore acquiesced
                    in their son’s wishes, when he announced to them that Mary had given her consent
                    to the marriage, provided theirs could be obtained. And they could not but admit
                    that by doing so they insured him every prospect of happiness, for the quiet and
                    gentle Mary Clayton was not one to feel a light attachment for her future
                    husband. They saw that her affection for him was deeply rooted and intense, of a
                    nature to endure even to her life’s end, alike unchanging whether it were
                    destined to work her happiness or misery.
                Lady Verney could not but agree with Mary, that she ought now at once to repair
                    to her father’s house, there to pass the time which must intervene till the
                    period fixed for her marriage. But as they were all anxious that they should not
                    be completely separated for so many months, the Verneys determined to come
                    themselves to spend the interval at a place of  public resort in the vicinity of B—. It so chanced that one of the most
                    aristocratic and exclusive of the families in the neighbourhood of that village
                    were old acquaintances of theirs, which was of course an additional inducement
                    to them to visit the place. But it more than once occurred to Lady Verney as a
                    strange circumstance, that her noble friends had never mentioned the father of
                    her future daughter?in?law among their list of acquaintances, for she never
                    doubted but that he was held in the same consideration as Mr. Clayton had been
                    in their own county. She did not, however, dwell much on the fact; and when Mary
                    left them to proceed to The Mount, she promised that they would all join her at
                    B— in a very short time. Mr. Verney himself followed her almost immediately,
                    that he might be introduced to the family of his future wife; their ready
                    consent having been obtained, of course, before the marriage was finally
                    settled.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XI.
                IT may be imagined with what delight Richard welcomed his child and her
                    future husband to the home which had so long been cheerless and unblest. He
                    almost fancied, as he looked on his fair and innocent daughter, that she was to
                    be the means of redeeming him from the fatality which pursued him, from the sort
                    of curse which he asserted had settled upon him and his family since the day
                    when he made his sister?in?law his wife. Not only did he believe that Mary would
                    herself have a most happy fate, but by her marriage with a man of rank and
                    station, he trusted she would restore to him the honour and consideration he had
                    lost, and she might even regain for him his former footing in society. He forgot
                    in what awful words it had been said, that the sins of the fathers should be
                    visited on the children.
                Mary Clayton found much in her father’s house to startle and distress her. Of her
                    father and step?mother’s conduct and state of mind she would not allow herself
                    to form an opinion. At her age and in their relative posi? tions she would have held it the height of
                    presumption to have done so; but the condition of her brother Edward filled her
                    with anxiety. She saw that he had already gone very far astray; his parents had
                    not now the slightest authority over him, and he treated them both with
                    disrespect and unkindness; he took care to let them see how much he thought they
                    had injured him; and yet Mary could not help perceiving clearly, that his faults
                    and follies were only the result of his neglected education, and of the
                    unfortunate circumstances in which he was placed. She believed that he might
                    even yet be led to know the unspeakable happiness of abjuring all unholy things,
                    and doing His will in submission and in love; and she determined to try at least
                    what her own gentle influence could effect.
                She soon won his warmest affection; for few could know Mary Clayton without
                    loving her. Her pure and elevated character, and the daily shining forth in all
                    her actions of the holy faith which Edward had never before seen thus
                    practically illustrated in the life of an individual, failed not to inspire him
                    with a degree of respect and almost reverence for his sister, which had a strong
                    effect upon his mind. Already he had begun to attend to her counsels; he seemed
                    disposed to admit, at least, the Glory and the Beauty of the Truths which she
                    set be? fore him; and Richard Clayton dwelt
                    more and more on the flattering hope, that his daughter was as a good angel sent
                    to restore peace and honour and happiness to his house.
                At this juncture Lord and Lady Verney arrived at B—. They were to spend the first
                    few weeks of their stay in this place at the house of the noble family who had
                    been the most rigid and uncompromising in their just exclusion of Richard and
                    his wife from all respectable society. The marriage of Mary and Mr. Verney had
                    not been announced till the arrival of his father and mother, and they were
                    themselves the first to mention it to their friends.
                Their horror and indignation may be imagined at the revelation which followed
                    from their astonished acquaintance. They were told at once who and what was the
                    man to whose daughter their son and heir was to be united. They learnt that he
                    was one who had contracted a union which, by the most holy authority, has been
                    pronounced a sin worthy to be branded with a fearful name; a union which the
                    Church of Christ in all ages has openly denounced and solemnly prohibited; so
                    that none professing themselves members of the same, dare countenance him who
                    has not feared to disregard that stern prohibition; a union which, if ever in a
                    Christian country it came to be regarded with 
                    other feelings than those of the profoundest abhorrence, would serve as a
                    precedent to the license that might then be taken for the commission of the most
                    awful crimes. This unnatural and most unholy union Richard Clayton had
                    contracted, in defiance of his father’s righteous indignation as a Priest,
                    steward of the mysteries of God, and as a man serving an All?pure Master—in
                    defiance of a distinct law Divine and human.
                Lord and Lady Verney further learnt that Richard, and the wife who had
                    co?operated with him in this sinful act, had been by just and universal judgment
                    expelled from society in all the bitterness of disgrace. The history of their
                    life from that period to the present day was then detailed;—the birth of the
                    son, whose social position was so questionable, that the very companions of his
                    games taunted him with many a galling name;—the reckless and dissipated course
                    he was now pursuing, whereby it seemed likely that he would add to the dishonour
                    which had in fact made him what he was;—the self?excommunication of Mr. and Mrs.
                    Clayton, sufficiently showing that they dared not for very shame pass the sacred
                    threshold of the house of God;—and, finally, the condition to which they had for
                    some years been reduced, so disgraceful and humiliating,  shunned by high and low, and above all, avoided by
                    those, like Mr. Lambert, whose holiness of life and faithful obedience to the
                    given laws, rendered their disapprobation of any individual a sure sign of his
                    unworthiness.
                Amidst the contending feelings of excessive anger and vexation, which filled the
                    minds of Lord and Lady Verney when they had heard all these facts, there were
                    two ideas which predominated over the rest. The first was, a sensation of
                    profound thankfulness, that it was yet time to prevent their only son from
                    contracting the disgraceful alliance, to which no power on earth would ever
                    induce them to consent; and the next, a feeling of the very deepest indignation
                    against Mary and her relations, for having concealed these dishonouring
                    circumstances from them, and so having artfully stolen, as it were, their
                    consent from them.
                Their anger at what they held to be an unworthy deception had certainly been
                    justly incurred by Richard, who ought in strictest honour to have acquainted
                    them with the whole truth the moment he heard of the proposed alliance; and who
                    had not done so merely because he was too weak and selfish to risk the failure
                    of the plan which gave him so much pleasure. A man who once indulges in laxity
                    of principle, as Richard had done when he married his sister? in?law, will have no scruple in carrying out the same
                    system in all other matters.
                But poor Mary was most innocent of the contemptible and wicked conduct of which
                    they had accused her. No one had ever ventured to enlarge to her upon her
                    father’s sins, or their consequences; she knew far too little of the world to be
                    aware of their peculiar and painful position in society. She was perfectly
                    aware, as a Christian, what a great and grievous sin Richard and Agnes had
                    committed in their marriage; but, as a daughter, she considered it unwarrantable
                    in herself to allow her mind to dwell one moment on their failings; and she had
                    never opened her lips on the subject to any human being, or allowed a whisper
                    connected with it to meet her ear. But as for concealment, Mary was too
                    guileless to suppose that it could exist; she had never doubted but that Lord
                    and Lady Verney were thoroughly acquainted with all circumstances connected with
                    herself and her family.
                Meantime, they determined at once to take vigorous measures for terminating an
                    affair which they considered already but too dishonouring to themselves. That
                    their son’s name should ever have been even coupled with that of Richard
                    Clayton’s daughter was a disgrace most galling to their pride. They sent for  Mr. Verney, they acquainted him with all the
                    unhappy circumstances of the case, and commanded him from that moment to give up
                    all thoughts of ever making Mary Clayton his wife. Never, under any
                    circumstances, would they consent to such a marriage; sooner would they see him
                    laid in his grave with an unstained name—sooner would they disown him
                    altogether, and alienate from him the family estates, so that he should have but
                    an empty title to dishonour. Nothing is too violent for injured pride, when
                    pride has become a passion; and Lord and Lady Verney spoke violently, unmoved by
                    their son’s despair. But they took a yet stronger measure for putting a complete
                    stop to an affair now most hateful to them.
                They wrote two letters, Lord Verney to Richard, his wife to Mary; the tenor of
                    both was the same. In unsparing terms they qualified the dishonourable position
                    of Mr. and Mrs. Clayton; solemnly and with a cruel haughtiness they declared
                    that nothing should ever induce them to allow their son to have the slightest
                    connexion with such a family. With the most cutting bitterness they intimated
                    that if Richard chose to take legal measures for forcing Mr. Verney to keep his
                    engagement, they were willing to sacrifice their whole fortune to save him from
                    the disgrace of the proposed marriage;  and
                    they concluded by openly expressing their utter contempt of the miserable
                    deception which they declared had been practised upon them by Mary and her
                    father.
                Richard Clayton was alone when this cruel letter reached him, whereby he saw that
                    the retribution of his sin, which he termed a curse, so far from being removed
                    by his daughter’s hand, was now about to take effect upon herself. By this
                    anticipated marriage he had looked for happiness to Mary, and restored honour to
                    himself, and straightway his unforgotten deed, his ineffaceable act, rose up
                    before him, and turned that bright prospect into gloom and bitterness; it
                    changed the hope of his daughter’s happiness to the certainty of her misery; it
                    converted the vision of his own renewed prosperity into the palpable evidence of
                    the actual dishonour that sullied his name with a stain never to be blotted out.
                    At once his conviction of the fatality which he believed had pursued him ever
                    since his marriage, (bringing upon him the results of that fatal step in the
                    shape of unceasing misfortune,) returned to his mind with redoubled vigour. It
                    had but gained new strength from its temporary banishment by that delusive hope,
                    and it came to him now in the guise of despair. He saw clearly that the effects
                    of his crime were coming at last to  their
                    full fruition; they were spreading on to sufferers most innocent of the guilt.
                    “The father had eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth were set on edge.”
                Hitherto the punishment of his deed had been administered by the world, because
                    of his dereliction from the merely human laws of morality; but now, for the
                    first time, he perceived and understood his sin in its true nature and actual
                    criminality, for the judgment of God had commenced. Truly Lord Verney’s letter
                    was an awful blow to Richard Clayton. 
                When Agnes, alarmed at his long absence, entered his room, she found him lying
                    back in his armchair, speechless and well nigh senseless; breathing only in
                    short suffocating gasps, his face livid, his whole frame convulsed, his
                    appearance was fearful. It was clear that he had been stricken with some
                    physical attack of a dreadful nature. The screams of his terrified wife brought
                    the servants flocking in. A physician was instantly sent for; he soon arrived,
                    and seemed quite appalled at the state in which he found Mr. Clayton. He used
                    the strongest remedies, but for some hours he would give little hope. At length
                    his patient breathed more freely, his countenance resumed its natural hue, and
                    without having spoken, or appeared aware of his position, he sunk into a  deep lethargic sleep. The physician then
                    pronounced him out of danger, and informed Agnes that her husband had been
                    seized with an attack evidently brought on by some overpowering mental
                    excitement, and which had well nigh proved fatal. He earnestly urged upon her
                    the necessity of his being kept free henceforward from all agitation or
                    uneasiness. It would be next to impossible that he should rise from another such
                    seizure.
                Agnes literally shuddered at these words. She knew it would be madness even to
                    hope that Richard could henceforward be preserved, either from mental anxiety,
                    or from bitter corroding grief. She had taken Lord Verney’s letter from the
                    stiffened hand of her unhappy husband, and she knew its contents. She had
                    already seen that which Lady Verney had written to her step?daughter; and she
                    had met the piteous despairing gaze of Mary Clayton’s sweet blue eyes, when she
                    received from it the blow whereby she was smitten to the very dust.
                Agnes Clayton betook herself to her knees, crushed and bewildered with anguish,
                    but she scarce knew what to pray for; it seemed to her a hopeless task to seek
                    to avert from Richard and herself the misfortunes that were springing so thickly
                    from the seed they had sown in their reckless sin and folly years ago. Truly it was bearing such fruit as they had
                    never dreamt of; and there fell a terrible weight upon her heart, when she
                    thought of that innocent one whose whole existence was too probably blighted by
                    her father’s fault.
                It was some days before Richard was sufficiently recovered to inquire how it
                    fared with his daughter since she had learnt the utter destruction of her whole
                    earthly happiness. The misery which Mary Clayton was enduring would have been
                    altogether insupportable to her but for one thought of holy hope.
                    The affection she felt for him she had believed was to be her husband, was of a
                    nature to be felt but once in a lifetime, and never to be forgotten or
                    replaced—full of an unchanging clinging tenderness, which must turn to bitterest
                    suffering if rejected. There is no trial purely of this earth which can bring
                    greater agony to a human heart, than the conviction that its true and devoted
                    affection has been for ever given in vain. It seemed to her, when she was thus
                    suddenly flung down from her bright hope and joy into such exceeding
                    wretchedness, as though the eyes that were to look on him no more might well
                    refuse to meet again the light of day; and the sinking heart revolt from bearing
                    the heavy load of that dark cheerless future, which was all that now remained to
                    her on earth Her sorrow had every aggravation 
                    which man could give it; for not only was she rejected and cast off by him to
                    whom she had trusted for her life’s happiness, but she was treated with the most
                    unmerited and cutting contempt by his family.
                Mary would have sunk altogether under this overwhelming burden of sudden trial,
                    had it not been, as we have said, for one thought. It was the recollection of
                    the Love of Him who alone is holy, who only is the Lord, for her that was even
                    as a worm in His sight; a love that was manifest in His unutterable agony, that
                    hereafter might be manifest in her unutterable bliss; that even now was shown
                    forth in the light affliction, enduring but for a moment, wherewith He chastened
                    her, in order that at the last it might bear fruit in a great and exceeding
                    weight of glory. She felt that though by His will the soul may be cast forth
                    into the deep waters of human misery, whose bitterness no earthly power can
                    assuage, still this one hope shall uphold it in the fearful struggle, as with
                    the hand of an angel, and teach it through its very suffering (tempered by
                    submission and faith) that neither in this world nor in the world to come can
                    the redeemed of Christ know aught of despair.
                Richard Clayton rose from his dangerous illness a humbled and remorseful man. It
                    may be doubted whether his was a repentance not  to be repented of; but, at least, he now thoroughly understood how glaring
                    was the sin from which so much suffering was springing, not to those only who
                    had erred, but to those also who were altogether guiltless of it. He no longer
                    felt any power to struggle with the retribution which had so clearly commenced;
                    silent and hopeless, he seemed constrained to sit by and watch the working of
                    all the misery and ruin which his selfishness had wrought.
                The first meeting between the father and daughter was a terrible one. Richard
                    gave but one glance to that pale sad face, with its look of patient
                    wretchedness, and to the dim eyes from which the sunshine of hope and joy was
                    for ever fled, quenched in bitterest tears, and then he almost crouched down
                    before her as though he would have implored her forgiveness.
                Mary understood from that moment that a great duty and task were now set before
                    her, in the soothing and comforting of the father, who had so profoundly though
                    unwillingly injured her. She must not only be resigned, but cheerful; that he
                    might never know how sorely stricken and overwhelmed she was by the sorrow he
                    had brought upon her. She nerved herself at once to this holy effort of filial
                    love, but the struggle was severe, and she felt it would undermine both health
                    and life.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XII.
                MEANWHILE Mr. Verney was by no means disposed to submit without a
                    struggle to the stern commands of his proud father. His affection for the quiet
                    gentle Mary Clayton had taken deep root in his heart, with a strength of which
                    he was not aware till she was actually taken from him. For the time it absorbed
                    all other considerations, and extinguished whatever pride he might have
                    inherited from his parents. They had accustomed him from childhood to the
                    unrestrained indulgence of every wish, and now when, for the first time, they
                    thwarted him, he resolved to cast off their authority altogether. If they would
                    not give their consent to his union with Mr. Clayton’s daughter, he would marry
                    her without it.
                After about three weeks spent in vain expostulations with Lord and Lady Verney,
                    Mr. Verney went to The Mount, to announce his resolution to Mary, and to obtain
                    her consent to a private marriage. He was perfectly aware of the depth of the
                    attachment with which he had  inspired her,
                    and of all the worldly advantages of an alliance with him; and his astonishment
                    was therefore unbounded when Mary positively refused to marry him without the
                    full consent of his father and mother.
                Mr. Verney would not believe it possible that she could continue firm in her
                    determination, for her extreme agitation showed what the sacrifice cost her, and
                    he used every argument to induce her to relent. He assured her that as soon as
                    the marriage was over, and opposition of no further avail, Lord and Lady Verney
                    would gladly receive her; and he called upon Richard to use all his influence
                    with her. It was, perhaps, the bitterest pang which Mary Clayton had yet
                    experienced in this sore trial, when her father, complying with Mr. Verney’s
                    request, urged her to do that which was actually wrong. Gently and even humbly,
                    (for was she not his daughter?) she implored of him to desist from further
                    entreaties, and again quietly repeated her refusal to Mr. Verney. He saw that
                    she was too resolute in the strait and narrow path of duty, to be allured from
                    it, though he tempted her with a whole life of happiness; and in his bitter
                    anger and disappointment, he upbraided her with many a cruel reproach. He
                    declared that she had never really felt any true affection for him, that she was
                    cold and heart? less, that it cost her nothing
                    to consign him to misery. These were terrible words to her who would so
                    thankfully have devoted her whole existence to make him happy—but no answering
                    word of bitterness came from her colourless lips. She bade him farewell meekly,
                    as though she had really injured him; and when he was gone, she returned to all
                    her home duties with a strong effort to appear contented and at peace, at least
                    in her father’s eyes.
                During Richard Clayton’s illness, Mr. Lambert, now Vicar of B—, had, unasked,
                    come to visit him, and from that period he continued ministering to the
                    spiritual necessities of the various members of the family, with faithfulness
                    and zeal. Agnes had surrendered herself as an humble penitent entirely to his
                    guidance. Richard himself seemed now well disposed to follow her example; and to
                    Mary, his counsels were of inestimable benefit. He advised her as to her conduct
                    towards her father and stepmother, for her position was by no means an easy one
                    in their house, and he now confirmed and strengthened her in her resolution to
                    do that which was right, however much suffering it might entail upon herself.
                    Very soon, however, her miserable father began to fear that she would prove,
                    with her life itself, the falsity of Mr. Verney’s assertion, that he was the
                    only  sufferer in this trial, for her health
                    and strength began gradually to sink under her constant mental exertion.
                Mr. Verney, though he professed to leave The Mount angry and hopeless, had in
                    truth only felt his esteem and affection for Mary increased by her holy
                    resignation and obedience to the Will of Heaven. He was more than ever
                    determined not to lose her, and he spent his days in devising some means of
                    overcoming the difficulties in his way. Lord and Lady Verney had returned to
                    their own home, but he himself persisted in remaining at B—, though he
                    consented, at their earnest request, to stay at the house of their friends, who
                    received private instructions to watch his proceedings. They were continually
                    enlarging on the disgrace which he would have incurred by his marriage with Mary
                    Clayton; and one day in particular they expatiated much on the miserable
                    position of her brother Edward; who, although he would be allowed quietly to
                    succeed to his father’s property, might have his legitimacy called in question
                    any day.
                These casual remarks suddenly gave Mr. Verney a new and hopeful idea. It struck
                    him that if Mary could be put in possession of the whole of the large fortune
                    which belonged to the Clayton family, by the setting aside of her brother’s claim, his proud but poverty?stricken
                    parents might possibly be induced to overlook Richard’s disgraced name, and
                    receive her as their daughter even yet. It seemed clear to him, that if Edward’s
                    legal right were disproved, Mary would succeed to an amount of wealth which
                    might well cover the dishonour of her family, and enable him at once to obtain
                    the consent of his parents; but it was a question which a lawyer alone could
                    answer, and Mr. Verney repaired without loss of time to Mr. Sharp, who had now a
                    considerable reputation in the neighbourhood of B—.
                He was too much absorbed in his resolution to remember how cruel and selfish he
                    was towards Edward and his unhappy parents, in contemplating such a measure. He
                    quieted his conscience with the conviction, that Mary would make a much better
                    use of the money than her dissipated brother, and never thought of the shame and
                    misery he was bringing upon Agnes, or of her son’s existence thus early ruined
                    and blighted.
                Mr. Verney put the question to Mr. Sharp, and received at once a decisive answer.
                    The passing of the act in 1835, respecting marriages within the prohibited
                    degrees of affinity, has made the law in the present day different to what it
                    was at the period to which  we refer. At that
                    time, as the lawyer informed Mr. Verney, the legitimacy of the offspring of a
                    man and his sister?in?law could be set aside if an action were brought against
                    them during the lifetime of both parents. Thus, in the case of Edward Clayton,
                    the thing was perfectly possible, and his sister might unquestionably succeed to
                    the property; but, of course, the necessary measures could only be taken by Mr.
                    Verney when he should be her husband. This was, however, quite satisfactory to
                    him; as he thought it by no means impossible that his father and mother might
                    consent to his marriage, if he could hold out so sure a prospect of his wife’s
                    becoming a wealthy heiress.
                He therefore determined to proceed at once to his own home, in order to acquaint
                    his parents with his plans; but he could not resist the temptation of first
                    paying a visit at The Mount, that Mary might learn the new hopes which cheered
                    him. He informed both her and Richard, that he had found a means whereby he
                    hoped to overcome all the obstacles to their union; and with all the ardour of
                    his peculiarly sanguine temperament, he assured her, that he doubted not his
                    parents would soon come themselves to claim her as their daughter. Mr. Verney
                    was scrupulously careful to conceal from Mary the cruel and wicked scheme he had
                         devised. He knew enough of her character
                    and principles to feel certain that she would never consent to be his wife on
                    such terms, and he resolved that she should only know the truth, when as her
                    husband he could claim her obedience to his wishes.
                Mary never asked, however, what was the plan of which he spoke. She was
                    bewildered with joy; for she implicitly believed his assurance, that they should
                    yet be happy, and the sudden revulsion of feeling was almost too much for her
                    enfeebled frame.
                After he left her Mr. Verney wrote to Mr. Sharp, to inform him that his marriage
                    would be concluded very shortly, and that he held him engaged to commence
                    immediately afterwards the legal proceedings against Edward Clayton.
                This letter was entrusted by Mr. Sharp to his son, who was in the habit of making
                    copies of such documents for his father’s use. It so chanced that this young man
                    had once a violent quarrel with Edward when he was little more than a boy. He
                    had taunted him, as many others were in the habit of doing, with the
                    circumstances of his birth, and the insult had been answered by a blow. This
                    indignity was never forgotten by the lawyer’s son, who was a mean and pitiful
                    character; and even if he had  been disposed
                    to forgive it, his mother was at hand to foster his anger and encourage his
                    desire for revenge. Mrs. Sharp saw, in the insult her son had received from
                    Edward, only an aggravation of that offered to herself by Agnes, many years
                    previously; for the lapse of time had but served to strengthen her enmity
                    against the whole family, which was now brought to its height by her son’s
                    complaints. Of late she had been bitterly displeased at the bright prospects
                    which had seemed to dawn for them in the proposed marriage of Mary Clayton, and
                    it was now with a spiteful pleasure that she learnt, from Mr. Verney’s letter,
                    the disgrace and misery which were preparing for them. Neither she nor her son,
                    however, could resist forestalling the evils which threatened the Claytons, when
                    so favourable an opportunity for revenge presented itself. Together they
                    arranged a plan for Edward’s public humiliation, which Mr. Sharp’s son knew he
                    could put in execution without loss of time.
                That same evening he took Mr. Verney’s letter with him when he went to join a
                    dinner party of young men, where he knew he should meet Edward. There he openly
                    repeated the insult which years before had provoked the return he resented; and
                    when Edward, stung almost to fury at his words, would have called him to account
                    for them, he flung Mr. Verney’s  letter across
                    the table to him, and told him he might learn there how he would soon have to
                    fight the whole world for attributing to him a disgrace which was to be publicly
                    and legally proved. The lawyer’s son was perfectly aware that he was betraying
                    his employer’s confidence by this proceeding, but he had the less scruple in
                    doing it for the gratification of his own malice, because he knew that it was
                    perfectly impossible for Edward or his family to avert the threatened evil, if
                    Mary’s husband chose to institute proceedings against him.
                It was late in the evening, and the family at The Mount were assembled together
                    in the drawing?room. Richard and Agnes were both silently watching Mary, whose
                    sweet face, though still pale from recent suffering, was now once again
                    brightened by the light of hope, like sunshine beaming on a placid lake. There
                    was no balm to the wounded conscience of Agnes Clayton like to that of a smile
                    on the face of Elizabeth’s daughter; but Richard could not yet believe there was
                    any happiness in store for them; his health was dreadfully shaken by his late
                    attack, and he was now the victim to a settled despondency. Still the sound of
                    Mary’s cheerful voice was as music to his ears to?night, and he felt a greater
                    sensation of peace than he had known for many weeks.
                Suddenly, as they sat there quietly, there  was
                    a sound of rushing footsteps in the hall without; exclamations of astonishment
                    from some of the servants, and the door of the room was burst open by a furious
                    hand. They all looked round trembling, and the conviction of some new misfortune
                    darted like lightning into the minds of each member of this unhappy family. They
                    were not mistaken.
                Edward Clayton rushed into the room, seemingly half frantic; he had never curbed
                    his anger, even for trifling causes, and now it was ungovernable. His face was
                    actually livid with rage, his teeth set, the veins starting on his forehead. In
                    his clenched hand he held a letter, which he flung down before his father, and
                    in a few words, that sounded to the miserable man like the sentence of a
                    terrible judgment, he told him how it contained the assurance that he, his
                    innocent son, should for his parents’ sin be publicly branded with disgrace,
                    deprived of the property he had always considered his own, and sent out into the
                    world to struggle in poverty with a blighting stain upon his name. Then (the
                    sense of his misery, and of the injustice done to him increasing as he spoke,)
                    Edward looked for a moment on both his parents with a glance they never forgot,
                    and burst into a storm of invective against them, upbraiding them in terms  too dreadful to be recorded here, for having
                    given him an existence, which by their fault was already blighted and destroyed.
                To Mary, also, he turned, and thanked her with taunting bitterness for the
                    lessons of Christianity which she had given him; her religion was bearing noble
                    fruit truly, when it permitted her to rob her brother by such a cruel means, and
                    to seek for his ruin and dishonour, that she might herself become the happy wife
                    of her proud lover. He heeded not her wild frantic protestation, that she knew
                    nothing of such a scheme; but, gathering all the passion that was bursting from
                    his lips, as it were into one sentence, he frantically declared, that he would
                    not remain another moment in the place, where he was soon to be stripped of his
                    lawful inheritance, and made an object of public scorn. He would never look
                    again on those who had so injured him; he would go to plunge into the only mode
                    of life, which now was open to him in the haunts of vice and misery; he would
                    find an existence in gaming, or cheating; and when his parents heard of him in
                    disgrace, in crime, in infamy, let them remember that they themselves had driven
                    him to it!
                With these words he dashed aside the clinging hands of his mother, who had fallen
                        almost at his feet, and rushed from the
                    room. They heard his frantic steps in the hall, then outside, passing the
                    window; his flying figure appeared for a moment among the trees; it vanished
                    swiftly, and he was gone—their only son—self?exiled from his home; driven forth
                    from it by the shadow of their crime, which haunted him like a mysterious
                    avenger.
                For a few moments all three were so paralyzed with the suddenness of this event,
                    that they were incapable of speaking or moving. Mary was the first to awaken
                    from the sort of stupor into which they were plunged: she started up with an
                    expression of so much anguish, that it attracted the attention even of the
                    parents, in whose ears the terrible words of their son were yet ringing.
                “He must not go, thinking I could be so base, so wicked!” she exclaimed; “I
                    cannot bear it—I must find him, or I shall never know peace again!” And careless
                    of the rain, which now was pouring down in torrents, or of the chill and gloom
                    of the night, she darted from the house, and followed wildly on the path which
                    Edward had taken.
                More than an hour elapsed before Richard could find her again. He sought for her
                    in vain through the grounds, and out on the road which Edward had already
                    quitted long since  on his way to London. It
                    was a wild tempestuous night, and the father felt an indescribable terror as he
                    thought of his child, so fragile and tender, exposed to the fury of the storm.
                    He saw that she had gone out bewildered and almost unconscious of what she did,
                    her brain reeling under the terrible remorse which her brother’s misery had
                    caused her, though she was so innocent of it. And when at length he discerned
                    her standing on the brink of the river, which rolled with a deep strong current
                    below the house, a dreadful fear took possession of him that she was about to
                    seek oblivion of her bitter sorrow within its whelming waters.
                She was standing fixed and rigid on the steep bank, gazing on the stream with
                    eyes wide and dilated, unconscious apparently of the drenching rain. Richard
                    flew towards her—he seized her in his arms, and called her by every endearing
                    name, but she did not seem to hear him; and he saw at once, by the vacant stare
                    of her glazed eyes, and the expression of her open mouth, that reason had for
                    the time deserted her. He could not wonder that it was so, for to a person of
                    her peculiarly sensitive nature, Edward’s bitter accusation against herself, and
                    his look and manner when he well?nigh cursed his parents, was in truth a trial
                    sufficient, seriously to affect her mind. He carried her back,  passive and unconscious, to the house. Throughout the
                    whole of that long dreadful night he watched beside her, with Agnes kneeling by
                    his side, and when morning broke, just as he expected, she was in the first
                    stage of a violent brain fever.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIII.
                MR. VERNEY might have spared all the misery which his unworthy scheme
                    had caused to the Clayton family, for it entirely failed of the effect he had
                    hoped it would have produced on his father and mother. Desirable as wealth would
                    now have been to them, pride was their first idol, and they were true in their
                    allegiance to it.
                No advantages which were to be found in the alliance, would have induced them to
                    allow the daughter of Richard Clayton to be the wife of their son and heir;
                    still less, by means of a project against which their honourable feelings
                    revolted, and which would but have entailed a more effectual disgrace on the
                    despised family.
                Bitterly disappointed, and hopeless at last, Mr. Verney returned to B— in time to
                    hear that Mary Clayton lay insensible and dangerously ill. It was known at the
                    village and at The Mount that Edward was pursuing a reckless course of
                    dissipation in London. His extravagance was carried on with money borrowed on
                    false pretences. But his father and  mother
                    seemed to take little heed of the details of the progressive ruin of their only
                    son. Their whole thoughts were now absorbed in the most overwhelming anxiety for
                    the daughter of Elizabeth, who lay upon her bed of sickness and pain, uttering
                    such plaintive words in her delirium as pierced their very hearts. Richard was
                    convinced she would die. His diseased imagination now set no limit to the
                    misfortunes which were to spring from his marriage. His own health was
                    completely shaken, and his mind filled with the darkest thoughts. He neither ate
                    nor slept, but haunted Mary’s room night and day like a spectre. He felt exactly
                    as though he had killed her—killed the gentle, loving child that never had
                    injured a human being. He could not endure the sight of Agnes: he never looked
                    upon her now but he heard the words of Elizabeth ringing on his ear, as though
                    she were repeating them even then in her grave:—“Oh, Richard, she is your
                    sister, your sister!”
                One night, by a most unusual occurrence, Mary was left for a few minutes alone,
                    although her fever was then at its height. Richard and Agnes had quitted her
                    while the nurse arranged the room, and the woman had carelessly gone down
                    stairs, intending to return immediately, and thinking that Mary was asleep.
                
                The peculiar form which her delirium had taken was naturally enough the continual
                    repetition in her own fancy of the scene which had caused her illness. She was
                    incessantly imagining she saw Edward rushing in with his livid distorted face;
                    she heard his terrible words; she saw him leave them, maddened with the injuries
                    they had done him; and she fled out to follow him through the storm and the
                    gloom. Many times she had actually risen to pursue the phantom of her raving,
                    and they had held her down. To?night the vision returned, and there was no one
                    to prevent her following the wild impulse. She rose from her bed, and, in the
                    strength of fever, fled from the room and the house with noiseless steps.
                There was but one person who saw that white ghost?like figure passing rapidly
                    among the trees. This was old Jack, the idiot, who had come to The Mount for his
                    dinner as usual. Poor Jack was no wiser than he had been years before, when he
                    alone had been found to welcome Agnes Clayton as the wife of her brother?in?law;
                    but as his mother was now bedridden from age, she had provided him with a
                    guardian, without whom she would not have allowed him to leave her sight. This
                    was his dog Charlie, who invariably accompanied him wherever he went.
                Charlie was certainly not a beauty, espe?
                    cially when he had been indulging in a duel with a neighbouring cat, of which
                    delectable amusement he was extremely fond, although he never failed to retire
                    from the combat with one eye unfit for use, and the whole of his intelligent
                    countenance seamed and scored in a most disfiguring manner. His coat also, which
                    ought to have been of a pure white, was much soiled and blackened by his
                    unfortunate predilection for rolling in the dust, and squeezing himself through
                    all sorts of unpracticable holes, instead of taking the legitimate entrances;
                    but in temper and disposition Charlie was of inestimable worth, and his faithful
                    attachment to poor Jack was beautiful in the extreme. The old woman, in fact,
                    had literally given the latter in charge to this sage animal, who was infinitely
                    more rational and intelligent than her poor son, and both Jack and Charlie
                    thoroughly understood their respective positions. The man yielded obedience with
                    the utmost submission to the authority which the dog wielded in a very dignified
                    manner; and many a time Charlie had, on the dark winter’s nights, brought his
                    charge safe home when he would have been lost in the snow without his
                    protection.
                They were seated together under a tree on this calm mild evening, when poor Mary
                    tottered past them, moaning and calling out her brother’s  name. Jack looked after her with the wild senseless
                    laugh to which he was continually giving vent unconsciously; but Charlie seemed
                    to consider that this was a matter in which they ought to interfere, and, with
                    that strange instinct that often seems almost prophetic in dogs, he took Jack’s
                    coat between his teeth, and insisted on his following in Mary’s steps.
                She went staggering on, taking exactly the path she had gone on that fatal night;
                    but when she reached the precipitous bank of the river, her unsteady feet failed
                    her, and she fell headlong into the water. With one single bound Charlie plunged
                    in after her, and he secured a firm hold of her dress as soon as she rose to the
                    surface; then panting, snorting, and struggling, he swam with her to the bank,
                    found footing for himself, and intimated to Jack, by his impatient pulling at
                    the weight so far beyond his own strength, that he was to lift the sinking body
                    from the water. The poor fool understood, and obeyed. He was of great bodily
                    strength, and he drew poor Mary out of the river, with perfect ease, and laid
                    her on the bank, where he stood over her, laughing out in his discordant glee.
                Charlie, however, was not yet satisfied; he once more seized hold of Jack, and
                    drew him towards the house, where, by his vehement barking, and Jack’s
                    incoherent exclamations, the servants  became
                    convinced that something had occurred. They followed the sagacious dog and his
                    companion to the spot where Mary was lying, now quite senseless, though still
                    living.
                They took her home, and carried her straight into the first room they came to,
                    where Richard Clayton was sitting alone. He heard the shuffling feet, and
                    started up; he saw the men enter with their burden. With the first glimpse he
                    obtained of that seemingly lifeless form, with the wet hair streaming over her
                    death?like face, the terrible idea took possession of him at once that she had
                    destroyed herself. He had fancied that this was her intention when he had found
                    her, on that night, standing by the river side, because he knew the depth of her
                    mental anguish, and he did not know the strength of a Christian’s
                    submission and resignation; and now he never doubted but that she had seized the
                    first moment when she was left unguarded, to rid herself, by this violent means,
                    of a life that was insupportable.
                Careless and worldly as Richard Clayton had been, he never could have thought,
                    with any thing but horror, of the awful sin of suicide—that crime which never
                    can be repented of! And to find that this beloved daughter, for whom he had so
                    securely anticipated an eternity of happiness, although for his sake  this mortal life had grown so bitter to her—to find
                    that she, in her agony, had forgotten alike her faith and her obedience, and had
                    rushed madly to the destruction both of soul and body, was more than the father,
                    broken spirited and feeble, could endure.
                He would have advanced to meet his hapless child, but his steps were suddenly
                    arrested; it was as though an iron hand had fastened on his heart; its action
                    was impeded; his breath was choked; his face assumed a dark leaden hue; he well
                    knew whose was the grasp that was checking the pulses of his life,
                    and he lifted up his darkening eyes imploringly. The terrible expression of his
                    countenance long after haunted all those who saw it; for, in that one awful
                    moment, there passed before his spirit all the occurrences of his past life.
                    Clear, distinct, rapid as the lightning’s flash, he could discern the unbroken
                    links of the whole chain of events which had risen out of that one hour when he
                    had knelt at the altar with the sister of his wife—now but a part of the
                    irrevocable past. Their joy and their sorrow alike were gone, and he must go
                    forth to see what fruits they would bear to his soul in eternity. His whole
                    existence now was shrivelling up into a vapour, a dream that was flitting away
                    from him. One thing only stood  real and
                    palpable before him: the judgment to come for the deeds done in the body. He
                    made one wild effort to place himself upon his knees, but strength and life
                    failed him at the same moment, and he fell heavily and unresisting on the floor.
                When Mary Clayton gradually returned to consciousness, the first sight that met
                    her eyes was the corpse of her father, round which those who had carried her
                    from the river were standing in hopeless dismay.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIV.
                A YEAR and more had elapsed since the awfully sudden death of Richard
                    Clayton; and of all the actors in this tragedy, which had sprung from one single
                    fault, Agnes and Mary alone remained. The youth and good constitution of
                    Elizabeth’s daughter had enabled her to rally from her fever. Her life was
                    spared, but not her intellect; the succession of violent shocks she had
                    received, had completely overthrown her reason, and she rose from her illness a
                    confirmed and helpless idiot.
                Shortly after the death of his father, the health of Edward began to give way
                    completely under the life of dissipation and excess he was leading. At last they
                    heard that he was sinking prematurely into the grave. Agnes could not leave her
                    step?daughter; and Mr. Lambert himself went to London, to ascertain the real
                    state of matters. He found Edward, deserted now by his gay companions, in an
                    advanced stage of a hopeless decline. He was still, however, able to bear
                    removal; and Mr. Lambert brought him back to The Mount,  where he consigned him to his poor mother’s care, for
                    the brief space that yet remained of his short and unhappy life. For six months
                    he lingered with the seal of death set surely on his forehead, and his young
                    existence ebbing visibly away. Mr. Lambert attended him assiduously; and when,
                    at length, the sun of his life set in its untimely night, he laid him in the
                    grave by the side of Elizabeth and Richard, feeling that another victim was
                    added to the number of those who had suffered by that man’s unholy deed. Whilst
                    he taught the penitent mother that it was not for them to speculate on his
                    future fate, they must only resign him in unquestioning obedience to the mercy
                    of his God.
                It was in truth a sore chastisement to Agnes Clayton, thus to lose her only
                    son,—to see that she had but given him life—that through her means that life
                    might be unhallowed and unhappy, condemned to an untimely sad decay. But she
                    bowed to the decree with the meekest submission; for it seemed to her that
                    nothing could be more distinct than the hand of the retributive Justice, in all
                    the trials which had visited their house. She and her husband had sinned against
                    a law, because they believed that law to be unnecessary and overstrained;—they
                    believed that their departure from it would be  productive of good results; and it had been ordained that their deed should
                    work precisely the opposite effects from what they expected, in order that they
                    might see clearly that he who would gain his life shall lose it—that he who
                    would gain aught by means contrary to the will of God, shall not only
                    unquestionably lose it, but find that the thing he sought has turned to poison.
                    He who would presume to take his destiny out of the hands of the Almighty, to
                    mould it at his pleasure, shall never fail to find that he has worked his own
                    ruin. There is but one safe course in this twilight world—“to hear and to obey.”
                    Light is given to all who follow Him, that they should not walk in darkness; but
                    the Blessed Light irradiates only the steps which we must take this
                    day: it shows us nothing of the morrow. Steadily we must follow it, faithfully
                    submit to the given laws, calmly leave the result in His safe?keeping.
                These were the lessons which Agnes Clayton learned from the bitter misfortunes
                    which had tracked their path since the hour of her unlawful marriage. More
                    terrible to her even than the death of her son, was the visitation which had
                    fallen on Mary Clayton, her sister’s child. It was, indeed, an awful punishment
                    that was inflicted on Agnes, when she was condemned to see before her, day by
                    day, for the remainder  of her life, that
                    melancholy spectacle—a being so young, so beautiful, with her earthly existence
                    thus fatally destroyed, the fine mind ruined and lost, the intellect laid
                    prostrate, nothing left but vacant, helpless idiotcy. Agnes saw distinctly what
                    was the duty set before her now, and she determined resolutely to perform it,
                    (by His help,) if so be she might yet be forgiven for the great transgression of
                    which she so bitterly repented.
                Her task and duty henceforward were to devote herself exclusively to Mary, the
                    innocent sufferer by a parent’s sin; and it was a touching sight to see how,
                    from the hour of her son’s death, Agnes gave up her life to the solace and
                    comfort of the helpless being now so utterly dependent on her. Sad at heart as
                    she was, haunted by the never?fading remembrance of those beloved and gone, she
                    yet strove unwearied to amuse her niece, and preserve her from the bodily pain
                    which was the only suffering she now could know; and many times a day she was
                    constrained to kneel down before this living monument of her past sins, and
                    implore of Mary to pardon her, though she knew she could not understand her
                    words; for she was ever stricken with a terrible remorse when she looked into
                    that sad young face, with its unmeaning expression, and wild vacant stare.
                
                It was a comfort to her that poor Mary was happy. She had become as a little
                    child again, as helpless and ignorant, but as free from care. She would sit for
                    hours on the grass, playing with flowers, as in the days when her dead mother
                    watched beside her. One of her chief pleasures was to go to church, although she
                    could not now understand anything which took place within that holy house. Some
                    dim association, connected with the past, seemed to fill her with a vague
                    longing to go there whenever she heard the bell; and Agnes never refused her, as
                    she was always still and quiet during the service. But it was a bitter trial to
                    the widowed, childless woman, to sit beside her there, and see how, instead of
                    the fervent devotion that formerly characterised poor Mary, she now sat smiling
                    childishly, as she held up her thin white hand, to catch the bright colours of
                    the stained glass, when the sunbeam was passing through them. At such moments,
                    Agnes always saw, as in a vision, the scene that had taken place in the cold
                    dark church in London, when she had taken the unlawful vows that never should
                    have been uttered by one who called herself a Christian.
                Many wondered that Mrs. Clayton could thus expose herself to the public gaze,
                    with her whom they could not but term her victim by  her side. But Agnes was now a penitent, not in name
                    only; and she was ready—nay, anxious—to humble herself in the sight both of God
                    and man. As for Mary, she could not but think that she was perhaps more fit to
                    be within that church than many who came there; for she was well disposed to
                    believe—in her case at least—that beautiful Eastern superstition which holds
                    that those who labour under any mental infirmity are the favoured of heaven;
                    that many things are shown to them of which we dream not; and that they hold
                    converse with the holy angels, as we think the little infants also do.
                There was another haunt, however, which Mary loved especially to frequent; and
                    this fancy caused Agnes many a sharp remorseful pang, though she did not shrink
                    from enduring them, for she was willing to submit to all the bitterness of the
                    punishment laid upon her. It was to the churchyard that she had to follow her
                    charge, day after day. Some faint recollection of the time before her illness,
                    when she used to come and sit by her mother’s grave, seemed to compel Mary to go
                    there constantly; but she came not, as formerly, to think of those who are
                    departed in the true faith of His holy Name, and pray that herself might have
                    the perfect consummation and bliss in His eternal  glory, but to pluck the flowers from the grass with
                    unconscious hand, and sing gay, wild songs, ill?suited to the scene; and Agnes
                    sat beside her, looking on the graves of all those she had loved,—on the family
                    gathered at her feet, of which Mary was the sole living representative, and
                    humbled herself to the very dust before the stern lessons learned in that place.
                    Elizabeth’s children, for whom she and her husband had sinned, were beside her
                    there,—the one nestling calmly in the dust by the side of the true mother to
                    whom he had been so soon restored, the other living a life which was most
                    heavily afflicted by the very means wherewith they sought to make it blessed;
                    and Agnes acknowledged those truths which she had refused to believe before, and
                    had now learnt, at a fearful cost, that—“There is no wisdom, nor understanding,
                    nor counsel, AGAINST THE LORD;” “That he that
                    turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be an
                    abomination;” “That out of evil no good can ever come.”
            
            R. CLAY, PRINTER, BREAD STREET HILL.
        
    
