
     ----CITATION----
        Caird, Mona (1854-1932). The Daughters of Danaus. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 1010 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (22-September-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7047
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE DAUGHTERS OF DANAUS
                
                BY MONA CAIRD.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    BLISS, SANDS, AND FOSTER 
                
                1894
            
        
        
            
            THE DAUGHTERS OF DANAUS
            
                Part I.
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    IT was only just light enough to discern the five human forms in the
                        dimness of the garret; the rays of the moon having to find their way through
                        the deep window-embrasures of the keep. Less illumination would have
                        sufficed to disclose the ancient character of the garret, with its low
                        ceiling, and the graduated mouldings of the cornice, giving the effect of a
                        shallow dome. The house stood obviously very high, for one could see from
                        the windows for miles over a bleak country, coldly lit by the rays of the
                        moon, which was almost at the full. Into the half light stole presently the
                        sound of some lively instrument: a reel tune played, as it were, beneath
                        one's breath, but with all the revel and rollicking emphasis of that
                        intoxicating primitive music. And then in correspondingly low relief, but
                        with no less emphasis, the occupants of this singular ball-room began to
                        dance. One might have fancied them some midnight company of the dead, risen
                        from their graves for this secret revelry, so strange was the appearance of
                        the moving figures, with the moonlight catching, as they passed, the faces
                        or the hands. They danced excellently well, as to the manner born, tripping
                        in and out among the shadows, with occasional stamping, in time to the
                        music, and now and again that wild Celtic shout or cry that sets the nerves
                        athrill. In spite of the whole scene's being enacted in a low key, it
                            seemed only to gain in intensity from
                        that circumstance, and in fantastic effect.
                    Among the dancers was one who danced with peculiar spirit and brilliancy, and
                        her little cry had a ring and a wildness that never failed to set the others
                        going with new inspiration.
                    She was a slight, dark-haired girl, with a pale, rather mysterious face, and
                        large eyes. Not a word was spoken, and the reel went on for nearly ten
                        minutes. At length the girl with the dark hair gave a final shout, and broke
                        away from the circle.
                    With her desertion the dance flagged, and presently came to an end. The first
                        breaking of the silence gave a slight shock, in spite of the subdued tones
                        of the speaker.
                    “It is no use trying to dance a reel without Hadria,” said a tall youth,
                        evidently her brother, if one might judge from his almost southern colouring
                        and melancholy eyes. In build and feature he resembled the elder sister,
                        Algitha, who had all the characteristics of a fine northern race.
                    “Old Maggie said the other day, that Hadria's dancing of the reel was no
                        ‘right canny,’” Algitha observed, in the same low tone that all the
                        occupants of the garret instinctively adopted.
                    “Ah!” cried Fred, “old Maggie has always looked upon Hadria as half bewitched
                        since that night when she found her here ‘a wee bit bairn,’ as she says, at
                        this very window, in her nightshirt, standing on tiptoe to see the
                        moonlight.”
                    “It frightened the poor old thing out of her wits, of course,” said Algitha,
                        who was leaning with crossed arms, in a corner of the deep-set window. The
                        fine outlines of face and form were shewn in the strange light, as in a
                        boldly-executed sketch, without detail. Pride and determination were the
                        dominant qualities so indicated. Her sister stood opposite, the moonshine
                        making the smooth pallor of her face more striking, and emphasizing its
                        mysterious quality.
                    The whole group of young faces, crowded together by the window, and lit up by the unsympathetic light,
                        had something characteristic and unusual in its aspect, that might have
                        excited curiosity.
                    “Tell us the story of the garret, Hadria,” said Austin, the youngest brother,
                        a handsome boy of twelve, with curling brown hair and blue eyes.
                    “Hadria has told it hundreds of times, and you know it as well as she
                        does.”
                    “But I want to hear it again—about the attack upon the keep, and the shouting
                        of the men, while the lady was up here starving to death.”
                    But Algitha shook her head.
                    “We don't come up here to tell stories, we must get to business.”
                    “Will you have the candle, or can you see?” asked Fred, the second brother, a
                        couple of years younger than Hadria, whom he addressed. His features were
                        irregular; his short nose and twinkling grey eyes suggesting a joyous and
                        whimsical temperament.
                    “I think I had better have the candle; my notes are very illegible.”
                    Fred drew forth a candle-end from his pocket, stuck it into a quaint-looking
                        stand of antique steel, much eaten with rust, and set the candle-end
                        alight.
                    Algitha went into the next room and brought in a couple of chairs. Fred
                        followed her example till there were enough for the party. They all took
                        their places, and Hadria, who had been provided with a seat facing them, and
                        with a rickety wooden table that trembled responsively to her slightest
                        movement, laid down her notes and surveyed her audience. The faces stood out
                        strangely, in the lights and shadows of the garret.
                    “Ladies and gentlemen,” she began; “on the last occasion on which the
                        Preposterous Society held its meeting, we had the pleasure of listening to
                        an able lecture on ‘Character’ by our respected member Demogorgon” (the
                        speaker bowed to Ernest, and the audience
                        applauded). “My address to-night on ‘Fate’ is designed to contribute further
                        ideas to this fascinating subject, and to pursue the enquiry more
                        curiously.”
                    The audience murmured approval.
                    “We were left at loggerheads, at the end of the last debate. I doubted
                        Demogorgon's conclusion, while admiring his eloquence. To-night, I will put
                        before you the view exactly contrary to his. I do not assert that I hold
                        this contrary view, but I state it as well as I am able, because I think
                        that it has not been given due consideration.”
                    “This will be warm,” Fred was heard to murmur with a chuckle, to an adjacent
                        sister. The speaker looked at her notes.
                    “I will read,” she said, “a passage from Emerson, which states very
                        strikingly the doctrine that I am going to oppose.”
                    Hadria her paper aslant towards the candle-end, which threw a murky yellow
                        light upon the background of the garret, contrasting oddly with the thin,
                        clear moonbeams.
                    “‘But the soul contains the event that shall befall it, for the event is only
                        the actualization of its thoughts; and what we pray to ourselves for is
                        always granted. The event is the print of your form. It fits you like your
                        skin. What each does is proper to him. Events are the children of his mind
                        and body.’”
                    Algitha leant forward. The members of the Preposterous Society settled into
                        attitudes of attention.
                    Hadria said that this was a question that could not fail to be of peculiar
                        interest to them all, who had their lives before them, to make or mar. It
                        was an extremely difficult question, for it admitted of no experiment. One
                        could never go back in life and try another plan. One could never make sure,
                        by such a test, how much circumstance and how much innate ideas had to do
                        with one's disposition. Emerson insisted that man makes his circumstance,
                        and history seemed to support that theory. How untoward had been, in
                        appearance, the surroundings of those who had made all the great movements
                        and done all the great deeds of the world. Let one consider the poverty, persecution, the incessant discouragement,
                        and often the tragic end of our greatest benefactors. Christ was but one of
                        the host of the crucified. In spite of the theory which the lecturer had
                        undertaken to champion, she believed that it was generally those people who
                        had difficult lives who did the beneficent deeds, and generally those people
                        who were encouraged and comfortable who went to sleep, or actively dragged
                        down what the thinkers and actors had piled up. In great things and in
                        small, such was the order of life.
                    “Hear, hear,” cried Ernest, “my particular thunder!”
                    “Wait a minute,” said the lecturer. “I am going to annihilate you with your
                        particular thunder.” She paused for a moment, and her eyes rested on the
                        strange white landscape beyond the little group of faces upturned towards
                        her.
                    “Roughly, we may say that people are divided into two orders: first, the
                        organizers, the able, those who build, who create cohesion, symmetry,
                        reason, economy; and, secondly, the destroyers, those who come wandering
                        idly by, and unfasten, undo, relax, disintegrate all that has been effected
                        by the force and vigilance of their betters. This distinction is carried
                        into even the most trivial things of life. Yet without that organization and
                        coherence, the existence of the destroyers themselves would become a chaos
                        and a misery.”
                    The oak table over which Hadria bent forward towards her audience, appeared
                        to be applauding this sentiment vigorously. It rocked to and fro on the
                        uneven floor with great clamour.
                    “Thus,” the speaker went on, “these relaxed and derivative people are living
                        on the strength of the strong. He who is strong must carry with him, as a
                        perpetual burden, a mass of such pensioners, who are scared and shocked at
                        his rude individuality; and if he should trip or stumble, if he should lose
                        his way in the untrodden paths, in seeking new truth and a broader
                        foundation for the lives of men, then a chorus of censure goes up from
                        millions of little throats.”
                    
                    “Hear, hear!” cried Algitha and Fred, and the table rocked
                        enthusiastically.
                    “But when the good things are gained for which the upholders have striven and
                        perhaps given their lives, then there are no more greedy absorbers of the
                        bounty than these same innumerable little throats.”
                    The table led the chorus of assent.
                    “And now,” said the lecturer slowly, ”consider this in relation to the point
                        at issue. Emerson asserts that circumstance can always be conquered. But is
                        not circumstance, to a large extent, created by these destroyers, as I have
                        called them? Has not the strongest soul to count with these, who weave the
                        web of adverse conditions, whose dead weight has to be carried, whose work
                        of destruction has to be incessantly repaired? Who can dare to say ‘I am
                        master of my fate,’ when he does not know how large may be the share of the
                        general burden that will fall to him to drag through life, how great may be
                        the number of these parasites who are living on the moral capital of their
                        generation? Surely circumstance consists largely in the inertia, the
                        impenetrability of the destroyers.”
                    Ernest shewed signs of restiveness. He shuffled on his chair, made muttered
                        exclamations.
                    “Presently,” said the lecturer reassuringly.
                    “Or put it in another way,” she went on. “A man may make a thing—circumstance
                        included—but he is not a sort of moral spider; he can't spin it out of his
                        own inside. He wants something to make it of. The formative
                        force comes from within, but he must have material, just as much as a
                        sculptor must have his marble before he can shape his statue. There is a
                        subtle relation between character and conditions, and it is this
                            relation that determines Fate. Fate is as the statue of the
                        sculptor.”
                    “That's where Hadria mainly differs from you,” said Fred, “you make the thing
                        absolute; Hadria makes it a matter of relation.”
                    “Exactly,” assented the lecturer, catching the remark. “Difficulties need not be really obstructive to
                        the best development of a character or a power, nor a smooth path always
                        favourable. Obstacles may be of a kind to stimulate one person and to
                        annihilate another. It is not a question of relative strength
                        between character and circumstance, as people are so fond of asserting. That
                        is mere gibberish. It means nothing. The two things cannot be compared, for
                        they are not of the same nature. They can't be reduced to a common
                        denominator.”
                    Austin appreciated this illustration, being head of his class for
                        arithmetic.
                    “We shall never be able to take a reasonable view of this question till we
                        get rid of that ridiculous phrase, ‘If the soul is strong enough, it
                            can overcome circumstance.’ In a room filled with carbonic acid
                        instead of ordinary air, a giant would succumb as quickly as a dwarf, and
                        his strength would avail him nothing. Indeed, if there is a difference, it
                        is in favour of the dwarf.”
                    Ernest frowned. This was all high treason against his favourite author. He
                        had given his sister a copy of Emerson's works last Christmas, in the hope
                        that her views might be enlightened, and this was the
                        disgraceful use she made of it!
                    “Finally,” said Hadria, smiling defiantly at her brother, “let us put the
                        question shortly thus: Given (say) great artistic power, given also a
                        conscience and a strong will, is there any combination of circumstances
                        which might prevent the artistic power (assuming it to be of the highest
                        order and strength) from developing and displaying itself, so as to meet
                        with general recognition?”
                    “No,” asserted Ernest, and there was a hesitating chorus on his side.
                    “There seem to me to be a thousand chances against it,” Hadria continued.
                        “Artistic power, to begin with, is a sort of weakness in relation to the
                        everyday world, and so, in some respects, is a nice conscience. I think
                        Emerson is shockingly unjust. His beaming optimism is a worship of
                            success disguised under lofty terms.
                        There is nothing to prove that thousands have not been swamped by
                        maladjustment of character to circumstance, and I would even go so far as to
                        suggest that perhaps the very greatest of all are those whom the world has
                        never known, because the present conditions are inharmonious with the very
                        noblest and the very highest qualities.”
                    No sooner was the last word uttered than the garret became the scene of the
                        stormiest debate that had ever been recorded in the annals of the
                        Preposterous Society, an institution that had lately celebrated its fifth
                        anniversary. Hadria, fired by opposition, declared that the success of great
                        people was due not simply to their greatness, but to some smaller and
                        commoner quality which brought them in touch with the majority, and so gave
                        their greatness a chance.
                    At this, there was such a howl of indignation that Algitha remonstrated.
                    “We shall be heard, if you don't take care,” she warned.
                    “My dear Algitha, there are a dozen empty rooms between us and the inhabited
                        part of the house, not to mention the fact that we are a storey above
                        everyone except the ghosts, so I think you may compose yourself.”
                    However, the excited voices were hushed a little as the discussion continued.
                        One of the chief charms of the institution, in the eyes of the members of
                        the Society, was its secrecy. The family, though united by ties of warm
                        affection to their parents, did not look for encouragement from them in this
                        direction. Mr. Fullerton was too exclusively scientific in his bent of
                        thought, to sympathize with the kind of speculation in which his children
                        delighted, while their mother looked with mingled pride and alarm at these
                        outbreaks of individuality on the part of her daughters, for whom she craved
                        the honours of the social world. In this out-of-the-way district, society
                        smiled upon conformity, and glared vindictively at the faintest sign of
                        spontaneous thinking. Cleverness of execution, as in music, tennis, drawing,
                        was forgiven, even commended; but
                        originality, though of the mildest sort, created the same agonizing
                        disturbance in the select circle, as the sight of a crucifix is wont to
                        produce upon the father of Evil. Yet by some freak of fortune, the whole
                        family at Dunaghee had shewn obstinate symptoms of individuality from their
                        childhood, and, what was more distressing, the worst cases occurred in the
                        girls.
                    In the debate just recorded, that took place on Algitha's twenty-second
                        birthday, Ernest had been Hadria's principal opponent, but the others had
                        also taken the field against her.
                    “You have the easier cause to champion,” she said, when there was a momentary
                        lull, “for all your evidences can be pointed to and counted whereas mine,
                        poor things—pale hypotheses, nameless peradventures—lie in forgotten
                        church-yards—unthought of, unthanked, untrumpeted, and all their tragedy is
                        lost in the everlasting silence.”
                    “You will never make people believe in what might have been,”
                        said Algitha.
                    “I don't expect to.” Hadria was standing by the window looking out over the
                        glimmering fields and the shrouded white hills. “Life is as white and as
                        unsympathetic as this,” she said dreamily. “We just dance our reel in our
                        garret, and then it is all over; and whether we do the steps as our fancy
                        would have them, or a little otherwise, because of the uneven floor, or
                        tired feet, or for lack of chance to learn the steps—heavens and earth, what
                        does it matter?”
                    “Hadria!” exclaimed an astonished chorus.
                    The sentiment was so entirely unlike any that the ardent President of the
                        Society had ever been known to express before, that brothers and sisters
                        crowded up to enquire into the cause of the unusual mood.
                    “Oh, it is only the moonlight that has got into my head,” she said, flinging
                        back the cloudy black hair from her brow.
                    Algitha's firm, clear voice vibrated through the room.
                    “But I think it matters very much whether one's task is done well or ill,”
                        she said, “and nobody has taught me to wish
                        to make solid use of my life so much as you have, Hadria. What possesses you
                        to-night?”
                    “I tell you, the moonlight.”
                    “And something else.”
                    “Well, it struck me, as I stood there with my head full of what we have been
                        discussing, that the conditions of a girl's life of our own class are
                        pleasant enough, but they are stifling, absolutely stifling;
                        and not all the Emersons in the world will convince me to the contrary.
                        Emerson never was a girl!”
                    There was a laugh.
                    “No; but he was a great man,” said Ernest.
                    “Then he must have had something of the girl in him!” cried Hadria.
                    “I didn't mean that, but perhaps it is true.”
                    “If he had been a girl, he would have known that conditions do
                        count hideously in one's life. I think that there are more ‘destroyers’ to
                        be carried about and pampered in this department of existence than in any
                        other (material conditions being equal).”
                    “Do you mean that a girl would have more difficulty in bringing her power to
                        maturity and getting it recognized than a man would have?” asked Fred.
                    “Yes; the odds are too heavy.”
                    “A second-rate talent perhaps,” Ernest admitted, “but not a really big
                        one.”
                    “I should exactly reverse that statement,” said Hadria. “The greater the
                        power and the finer its quality, the greater the inharmony between the
                        nature and the conditions; therefore the more powerful the leverage against
                        it. A small comfortable talent might hold its own, where a larger one would
                        succumb. That is where I think you make your big mistake, in forgetting that
                        the greatness of the power may serve to make the greatness of the
                        obstacles.”
                    “So much the better for me then,” said Algitha, with a touch of satire; “for
                        I have no idea of being beaten.” She folded her arms in a serene attitude of
                        determination.
                    
                    “Surely it only wants a little force of will to enable you to occupy your
                        life in the manner you think best,” said Ernest.
                    “That is often impossible for a girl, because prejudice and custom are
                        against her.”
                    “But she ought to despise prejudice and custom,” cried the brother,
                        nobly.
                    “So she often would; but then she has to tear through so many living ties
                        that restrain her freedom.”
                    Algitha drew herself up. “If one is unjustly restrained,” she said, “it is
                        perfectly right to brave the infliction of the sort of pain that people feel
                        only because they unfairly object to one's liberty of action.”
                    “But what a frightful piece of circumstance that is to
                        encounter,” cried Hadria, “to have to buy the mere right to one's liberty by
                        cutting through prejudices that are twined in with the very heart-strings of
                        those one loves! Ah! that particular obstacle has held many a
                        woman helpless and suffering, like some wretched insect pinned alive to a
                        board throughout a miserable lifetime! What would Emerson say to these
                        cases? That ‘Nature magically suits the man to his fortunes by making these
                        the fruit of his character’? Pooh! I think Nature more often makes a man's
                        fortunes a veritable shirt of Nessus which burns and clings, and finally
                        kills him with anguish!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    ONCE more the old stronghold of Dunaghee, inured for centuries to
                        the changes of the elements, received the day's greeting. The hues of dawn
                        tinged the broad hill pastures, or “airds,” as they were called, round about
                        the Tower of the Winds. No one was abroad yet in the silent lands, except
                        perhaps a shepherd, tending his flock. The little farmstead of Craw Gill,
                        that lay at a distance of about a couple of miles down the valley, on the
                        side of a ravine, was apparently dead asleep. Cruachmore, the nearest upland
                        farm, could scarcely be seen from the stronghold. The old tower had been
                        added to, perhaps two hundred years ago; a rectangular block projecting from
                        the corner of the original building, and then a second erection at right
                        angles to the first, so as to form three sides of an irregular courtyard.
                        This arrangement afforded some shelter from the winds which seldom ceased to
                        blow in these high regions. The spot had borne the same reputation for
                        centuries, as the name of the old tower implied.
                    The Tower of the Winds stood desolately, in the midst of a wide-eyed
                        agricultural country, and was approached only by a sort of farm track that
                        ran up hill and down dale, in a most erratic course, to the distant main
                        road.
                    The country was not mountainous, though it lay in a northern district of
                        Scotland; it was bleak and solitary, with vast bare fields of grass or corn;
                        and below in the valley, a river that rushed sweeping over its rough bed,
                        silent where it ran deep, but chattering busily in the shallows. Here was
                        verdure to one's heart's content; the whole country being a singular mixture of bleakness on the heights, and
                        woodland richness in the valleys; bitterly cold in the winter months, when
                        the light deserted the uplands ridiculously early in the afternoon, leaving
                        long mysterious hours that held the great silent stretches of field and
                        hillside in shadow: a circumstance, which had, perhaps, not been without its
                        influence in the forming of Hadria's character. She, more than the others,
                        seemed to have absorbed the spirit of the northern twilights. It was her
                        custom to wander alone over the broad spaces of the hills, watching the sun
                        set behind them, the homeward flight of the birds, the approach of darkness
                        and the rising of the stars. Every instinct that was born in her with her
                        Celtic blood—which lurked still in the family to the confounding of its
                        fortunes—was fostered by the mystery and wildness of her surroundings.
                    Dawn and sunset had peculiar attractions for her.
                    Although the Preposterous Society had not separated until unusually late on
                        the previous night, the President was up and abroad on this exquisite
                        morning, summoned by some “message of range and of sweep—” to the flushing
                        stretches of pasture and the windy hillside.
                    In spite of the view that Hadria had expounded in her capacity of lecturer,
                        she had an inner sense that somehow, after all, the will can
                        perform astonishing feats in Fate's despite. Her intellect, rather than her
                        heart, had opposed the philosophy of Emerson. Her sentiment recoiled from
                        admitting the possibility of such tragedy as her expressed belief implied.
                        This morning, the wonder and the grandeur of the dawn supplied arguments to
                        faith. If the best in human nature were always to be hunted down and
                        extinguished, if the efforts to rise in the scale of being, to bring gifts
                        instead of merely absorbing benefits, were only by a rare combination of
                        chances to escape the doom of annihilation, where was one to turn to for
                        hope, or for a motive for effort? How could one reconcile the marvellous
                        beauty of the universe, the miracles of colour, form, and, above all, of
                        music, with such a chaotic moral condition,
                        and such unlovely laws in favour of dulness, cowardice, callousness,
                        cruelty? One aspired to be an upholder and not a destroyer, but if it were a
                        useless pain and a bootless venture—?
                    Hadria tried to find some proof of the happier philosophy that would satisfy
                        her intellect, but it refused to be comforted. Yet as she wandered in the
                        rosy light over the awakening fields, her heart sang within her. The world
                        was exquisite, life was a rapture!
                    She could take existence in her hands and form and fashion it at her will,
                        obviously, easily; her strength yearned for the task.
                    Yet all the time, the importunate intellect kept insisting that feeling was
                        deceptive, that health and youth and the freshness of the morning spoke in
                        her, and not reason or experience. Feeling was left untouched nevertheless.
                        It was impossible to stifle the voices that prophesied golden things. Life
                        was all before her she was full of vigour and longing and good will; the
                        world stretched forth as a fair territory, with magical pathways leading up
                        to dizzy mountain tops. With visions such as these, the members of the
                        Preposterous Society had fired their imaginations, and gained impetus for
                        their various efforts and their various ambitions.
                    Hadria had been among the most hopeful of the party, and had pointed to the
                        loftier visions, and the more impersonal aims. Circumstance must give way,
                        compromise was wrong; we had but a short time in this world, and mere
                        details and prejudices must not be allowed to interfere with one's right to
                        live to the utmost of one's scope. But it was easier to state a law than to
                        obey it; easier to inspire others with faith than to hold fast to it
                        oneself.
                    The time for taking matters in one's own hands had scarcely come. A girl was
                        so helpless, so tied by custom. One could engage, so far, only in guerilla
                        warfare with the enemy, who lurked everywhere in ambush, ready to harass the
                        wayfarers with incessant petty attack. But life must have something more to offer than this—life
                        with its myriad interests, dramas, mysteries, arts, poetries, delights!
                    By the river, where it had worn for itself a narrow ravine, with steep rocky
                        sides or “clints,” as they were called, several short tunnels or passages
                        had been cut in places where the rock projected as far as the bank of the
                        river, which was followed in its windings by a narrow footway, leading to
                        the farmstead of Craw Gill.
                    In one part, a series of such tunnels, with intervals of open pathway,
                        occurred in picturesque fashion, causing a singular effect of light and
                        shade.
                    As Hadria stood admiring the glow of the now fully-risen sun, upon the wall
                        of rock that rose beyond the opening of the tunnel which she had just passed
                        through, she heard footsteps advancing along the riverside path, and guessed
                        that Algitha and Ernest had come to fetch her, or to join in any absurd
                        project that she might have in view. Although Algitha was two-and-twenty,
                        and Hadria only a year younger, they were still guilty at times of wild
                        escapades, with the connivance of their brothers. Walks or rides at sunrise
                        were ordinary occurrences in the family, and in summer, bathing in the river
                        was a favourite amusement.
                    “I thought I recognised your footsteps,” said Hadria, as the two figures
                        appeared at the mouth of the tunnel, the low rays of the sun lighting them
                        up, for a moment, as they turned the sharp bend of the narrow path, before
                        entering the shadow.
                    A quantity of brown dead leaves were strewn upon the floor of the
                        rock-passage, blown in by the wind from the pathway at each end, or perhaps
                        through the opening in the middle of the tunnel that looked out upon the
                        rushing river.
                    A willow-tree had found footing in the crevice of the rock just outside, and
                        its branches, thinly decked with pale yellow leaves, dipped into the water
                        just in front of the opening. When the wind blew off the river it would
                        sweep the leaves of the willow into the tunnel.
                    “Let's make a bonfire,” suggested Ernest.
                    
                    They collected the withered harvest of the winds upon the cavern floor, in a
                        big brown heap, and then Ernest struck a match and set light to it. Algitha,
                        in a large black cloak, stood over it with a hazel stick—like a
                        wand—stirring and heaping on the fuel, as the mass began to smoulder and to
                        send forth a thick white smoke that gradually filled the cavern, curling up
                        into the rocky roof and swirling round and out by the square-cut mouth, to
                        be caught there by the slight wind and illumined by the sun, which poured
                        down upon the soft coils of the smoke, in so strange a fashion, as to call
                        forth a cry of wonder from the onlookers. Standing in the interval of open
                        pathway between the two rock-passages, and looking back at the fire-lit
                        cavern, with its black shadows and flickering flame-colours, Hadria was
                        bewildered by what appeared to her a veritable magic vision, beautiful
                        beyond anything that she had ever met in dream. She stood still to watch,
                        with a real momentary doubt as to whether she were awake.
                    The figures, stooping over the burning heap, moved occasionally across the
                        darkness, looking like a witch and her familiar spirit, who were conjuring,
                        by uncanny arts, a vision of life, on the strange, white, clean-cut patch of
                        smoke that was defined by the sunlit entrance to the tunnel. The witch
                        stirred, and her familiar added fuel, while behind them the smoke, rising
                        and curdling, formed the mysterious background of light: opaque, and yet in
                        a state of incessant movement, as of some white raging fire, thinner and
                        more deadly than any ordinary earthly element, that seemed to sicken and
                        flicker in the blast of a furnace, and then rushed upwards, and coiled and
                        rolled across the tunnel's mouth. Presently, as a puff of wind swept away
                        part of the smoke, a miraculous tinge of rosy colour appeared, changing, as
                        one caught it, into gold, and presently to a milky blue, then liquid green,
                        and a thousand intermediate tints corresponding to the altering density of
                        the smoke—and then! Hadria caught her breath—the blue and the red and the
                        gold melted and moved and formed, under the incantation, into a
                            marvellous vision of distant lands,
                        purple mountains, fair white cities, and wide kingdoms, so many, so great,
                        that the imaginltion staggered at the vastness revealed, and offered, as it
                        seemed, to him who could grasp and perceive it. Among those blue deeps and
                        faint innumerable mountaintops, caught through a soft mist that continually
                        moved and lifted, thinned and thickened, with changing tints, all the
                        secrets, all the hopes, all the powers and splendours, of life lay hidden;
                        and the beauty of the vision was as the essence of poetry and of music—of
                        all that is lovely in the world of art, and in the world of the emotions.
                        The question that had been debated so hotly and so often, as to the relation
                        of the good and the beautiful, art and ethics, seemed to be answered by this
                        bewildering revelation of sunlit smoke, playing across the face of a
                        purple-tinted rock, and a few feet of grass-edged pathway.
                    “Come and see what visions you have conjured up, O witch!” cried Hadria.
                    Algitha gave a startled exclamation, as the smoke thinned and revealed that
                        bewildering glimpse of distant lands, half seen, as through the atmosphere
                        of a dream. An exquisite city, with slender towers and temples, flashed, for
                        a moment, through the mist curtain.
                    “If life is like that,” she said at length, drawing a long breath, “nothing
                        on this earth ought to persuade us to forgo it; no one has the right to hold
                        one back from its possession.”
                    “No one,” said Hadria; “but everyone will try!”
                    “Let them try,” returned Algitha defiantly.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    ERNEST and his two sisters walked homeward along the banks of the
                        river, and thence up by a winding path to the top of the cliffs. It was mild
                        weather, and they decided to pause in the little temple of classic design,
                        which some ancient owner of the Drumgarran estate, touched with a desire for
                        the exquisiteness of Greek outline, had built on a promontory of the rocks,
                        among rounded masses of wild foliage; a spot that commanded one of the most
                        beautiful reaches of the river. The scene had something of classic
                        perfection and serenity.
                    “I admit,” said Ernest in response to some remark of one of his sisters, “I
                        admit that I should not like to stay here during all the best years of my
                        life, without prospect of widening my experience; only as a matter of fact,
                        the world is somewhat different from anything that you imagine, and by no
                        means would you find it all beer and skittles. Your smoke and sun-vision is
                        not to be trusted.”
                    “But think of the pride and joy of being able to speak in that tone of
                        experience!” exclaimed Hadria mockingly.
                    “One has to pay for experience,” said Ernest, shaking his head and ignoring
                        her taunt.
                    “I think one has to pay more heavily for inexperience,” she
                        said.
                    “Not if one never comes in contact with the world. Girls are protected from
                        the realities of life so long as they remain at home, and that is worth
                        something after all.”
                    Algitha snorted. “I don't know what you are pleased to call realities, my
                        dear Ernest, but I can assure you there are plenty of unpleasant facts, in
                        this protected life of ours.”
                    
                    “Nobody can expect to escape unpleasant facts,” said Ernest.
                    “Then for heaven's sake, let us purchase with them something worth having!”
                        Hadria cried.
                    “Hear, hear!” assented Algitha.
                    “Unpleasant facts being a foregone conclusion,” Hadria added, “the point to
                        aim at obviously is interesting facts—and plenty of them.”
                    Ernest flicked a pebble off the parapet of the balustrade of the little
                        temple, and watched it fall, with a silent splash, into the river.
                    “I never met girls before, who wanted to come out of their cotton-wool,” he
                        observed. “I thought girls loved cotton-wool. They always seem to.”
                    “Girls seem an astonishing number of things that they are not,”
                        said Hadria, “especially to men. A poor benighted man might as well try to
                        get on to confidential terms with the Sphinx, as to learn the real thoughts
                        and wishes of a girl.”
                    “You two are exceptional, you see,” said Ernest.
                    “Oh, everybody's exceptional, if you only knew it!” exclaimed
                        his sister. “Girls,” she went on to assert, “are stuffed with certain
                        stereotyped sentiments from their infancy, and when that painful process is
                        completed, intelligent philosophers come and smile upon the victims, and
                        point to them as proofs of the intentions of Nature regarding our sex,
                        admirable examples of the unvarying instincts of the feminine creature. In
                        fact,” Hadria added with a laugh, “it's as if the trainer of that troop of
                        performing poodles that we saw, the other day, at Ballochcoil, were to
                        assure the spectators that the amiable animals were inspired, from birth, by
                        a heaven-implanted yearning to jump through hoops, and walk about on their
                        hind legs—”
                    “But there are such things as natural instincts,” said
                        Ernest.
                    “There are such things as acquired tricks,” returned Hadria.
                    
                    A loud shout, accompanied by the barking of several dogs, announced the
                        approach of the two younger boys. Boys and dogs had been taking their
                        morning bath in the river.
                    “You have broken in upon a most interesting discourse,” said Ernest. “Hadria
                        was really coming out.”
                    This led to a general uproar.
                    When peace was restored, the conversation went on in desultory fashion.
                        Ernest and Hadria fell apart into a more serious talk. These two had always
                        been “chums,” from the time when they used to play at building houses of
                        bricks on the nursery floor. There was deep and true affection between
                        them.
                    The day broke into splendour, and the warm rays, rounding the edge of the
                        eastward rock, poured straight into the little temple. Below and around on
                        the cliff-sides, the rich foliage of holly and dwarf oak, ivy, and rowan
                        with its burning berries, was transformed into a mass of warm colour and
                        shining surfaces.
                    “What always bewilders me,” Hadria said, bending over the balustrade among
                        the ivy, “is the enormous gulf between what might be and what
                            is in human life. Look at the world—life's most sumptuous
                        stage—and look at life! The one, splendid, exquisite, varied, generous, rich
                        beyond description; the other, poor, thin, dull, monotonous, niggard,
                        distressful—is that necessary?”
                    “But all lives are not like that,” objected Fred.
                    “I speak only from my own narrow experience,” said Hadria.
                    “Oh, she is thinking, as usual, of that unfortunate Mrs. Gordon!” cried
                        Earnest.
                    “Of her, and the rest of the average, typical sort of people that I know,”
                        Hadria admitted. “I wish to heaven I had a wider knowledge to speak
                        from.”
                    “If one is to believe what one hears and reads,” said Algitha, “a life must
                        be full of sorrow indeed.”
                    “But putting aside the big sorrows,” said her sister, “the ordinary every day existence that would be called
                        prosperous, seems to me to be dull and stupid to a tragic extent.”
                    “The Gordons of Drumgarran once more! I confess I can't see anything
                        particularly tragic there,” observed Fred, whose memory recalled troops of
                        stalwart young persons in flannels, engaged for hours, in sending a ball
                        from one side of a net to the other.
                    “It is more than tragic; it is disgusting!” cried Hadria with a shiver.
                        Algitha drew herself together. She turned to her eldest brother.
                    “Look here, Ernest; you said just now that girls were shielded from the
                        realities of life. Yet Mrs. Gordon was handed over by her protectors, when
                        she was little more than a school-girl, without knowledge, without any sort
                        of resource or power of facing destiny, to—well, to the hateful realities of
                        the life that she has led now for over twenty years. There is nothing to win
                        general sympathy in this case, for Mr. Gordon is good and kind; but oh,
                        think of the existence that a ‘protected,’ carefully brought-up girl may be
                        launched into; before she knows what she is pledged to, or what her ideas of
                        life may be! If that is what you call protection, for heaven's
                        sake let us remain defenceless.”
                    Fred and Ernest accused their elder sister of having been converted by
                        Hadria. Algitha, honest and courageous in big things and in small, at once
                        acknowledged the source of her ideas. Not so long ago, Algitha had differed
                        from the daughters of the neighbouring houses, rather in force of character
                        than in sentiment.
                    She had followed the usual aims with unusual success, giving unalloyed
                        satisfaction to her proud mother. Algitha had taken it as a matter of course
                        that she would some day marry, and have a house of her own to reign in. A
                        home, not a husband, was the important matter, and Algitha had trusted to
                        her attractions to make a good marriage; that is, to obtain extensive
                        regions for her activities. She craved a roomy stage for her drama, and
                        obviously there was only one method of
                        obtaining it, and even that method was but dubious. But Hadria had
                        undermined this matter of fact, take-things-as-you-find-them view, and set
                        her sister's pride on the track. That master-passion once aroused in the new
                        direction, Algitha was ready to defend her dignity as a woman, and as a
                        human being, to the death. Hadria felt as a magician might feel, who has
                        conjured up spirits henceforth beyond his control; for obviously, her
                        sister's whole life would be altered by this change of sentiment, and, alas,
                        her mother's hopes must be disappointed. The laird of Clarenoc—a fine
                        property, of which Algitha might have been mistress—had received polite
                        discouragement, much to his surprise and that of the neighbourhood. Even
                        Ernest, who was by no means worldly, questioned the wisdom of his sister's
                        decision; for the laird of Clarenoc was a good fellow, and after all, let
                        them talk as they liked, what was to become of a girl unless she married?
                        This morning's conversation therefore touched closely on burning topics.
                    “Mrs. Gordon's people meant it for the best, I suppose,” Ernest observed,
                        “when they married her to a good man with a fine property.”
                    “That is just the ghastly part of it!” cried Hadria; “from ferocious enemies
                        a girl might defend herself, but what is she to do against the united
                        efforts of devoted friends?”
                    “I don't suppose Mrs. Gordon is aware that she is so ill-used!”
                    “Another gruesome circumstance!” cried Hadria, with a half laugh; “for that
                        only proves that her life has dulled her self-respect, and destroyed her
                        pride.”
                    “But, my dear, every woman is in the same predicament, if predicament it
                        be!”
                    “What a consolation!” Hadria exclaimed, “all the foxes have lost
                        their tails!”
                    “It may be illogical, but people generally are immensely comforted by that
                        circumstance.”
                    The conversation waxed warmer and more personal. Fred took a conservative view of the question. He
                        thought that there were instincts implanted by Nature, which inspired Mrs.
                        Gordon with a yearning for exactly the sort of existence that fate had
                        assigned to her. Algitha, who had been the recipient of that lady's tragic
                        confidences, broke into a shout of laughter.
                    “Well, Harold Wilkins says—”
                    This name was also greeted with a yell of derision.
                    “I don't see why you girls always scoff so at Harold Wilkins,” said Fred,
                        slightly aggrieved, “he is generally thought a lot of by girls. All Mrs.
                        Gordon's sisters adore him.”
                    “He needs no further worshippers,” said Hadria.
                    Fred was asked to repeat the words of Harold Wilkins, but to soften them down
                        if too severe.
                    “He laughs at your pet ideas,” said Fred ruthlessly.
                    “Break it gently, Fred, gently.”
                    “He thinks that a true woman esteems it her highest privilege to—well, to be
                        like Mrs. Gordon.”
                    “Wise and learned youth!” cried Hadria, resting her chin on her hand, and
                        peering up into the blue sky, above the temple.
                    “Fool!” exclaimed Algitha.
                    “He says,” continued Fred, determined not to spare those who were so
                        overbearing in their scorn, “he says that girls who have ideas like yours
                        will never get any fellow to marry them.”
                    Laughter loud and long greeted this announcement.
                    “Laughter,” observed Fred, when he could make himself heard, “is among the
                        simplest forms of argument. Does this merry outburst imply that you don't
                        care a button whether you are able to get some one to marry you or not?”
                    “It does,” said Algitha.
                    “Well, so I said to Wilkins, as a matter of fact, with my nose in the air, on
                        your behalf, and Wilkins replied, ‘Oh, it's all very well while girls are
                        young and good-looking to be so high and
                        mighty, but some day, when they are left out in the cold, and all their
                        friends married, they may sing a different tune.’ Feeling there was
                        something in this remark,” Fred continued, “I raised my nose two inches
                        higher, and adopted the argument that I also resort to in extremis. I laughed. ‘Well, my dear fellow,’
                        Wilkins observed calmly, ‘I mean no offence, but what on earth is a girl to
                        do with herself if she doesn't marry?’”
                    “What did you reply?” asked Ernest with curiosity.
                    “Oh, I said that was an unimportant detail, and changed the subject.”
                    Algitha was still scornful, but Hadria looked meditative.
                    “Harold Wilkins has a practical mind,” she observed. “After all, he is right,
                        when you come to consider it.”
                    “Hadria!” remonstrated her sister, in dismay.
                    “We may as well be candid,” said Hadria. “There is uncommonly
                        little that a girl can do (or rather that people will let her do) unless she
                        marries, and that is why she so often does marry as a mere matter of
                        business. But I wish Harold Wilkins would remember that fact, instead of
                        insisting that it is our inherent and particular nature that urges us, one
                        and all, to the career of Mrs. Gordon.”
                    Algitha was obviously growing more and more ruffled. Fred tried in vain to
                        soothe her feelings. He joked, but she refused to see the point. She would
                        not admit that Harold Wilkins had facts on his side.
                    “If one simply made up one's mind to walk through all the hampering
                        circumstances, who or what could stop one?” she asked.
                    “Algitha has evidently got some desperate plan in her head for making
                        mincemeat of circumstances,” cried Fred, little guessing that he had stated
                        the exact truth.
                    “Do you remember that Mrs. Gordon herself waged a losing battle in early
                        days, incredible as it may appear?” asked Hadria.
                    Algitha nodded slowly, her eyes fixed on the ground.
                    
                    “She did not originally set out with the idea of being a sort of amiable cow.
                        She once aspired to be quite human; she really did, poor thing!”
                    “Then why didn't she do it?” asked Algitha contemptuously.
                    “Instead of doing a thing, she had to be perpetually struggling
                        for the chance to do it, which she never achieved, and so she was submerged.
                        That seems to be the fatality in a woman's life.”
                    “Well, there is one thing I am very sure of,” announced Algitha, leaning
                        majestically against a column of the temple, and looking like a beautiful
                        Greek maiden, in her simple gown, “I do not intend to be a cow. I do not
                        mean to fight a losing battle. I will not wait at home meekly, till some
                        fool holds out his sceptre to me.”
                    All eyes turned to her, in astonishment.
                    “But what are you going to do?” asked a chorus of voices. Hadria's was not
                        among them, for she knew what was coming. The debate of last night, and this
                        morning's discussion, had evidently brought to a climax a project that
                        Algitha had long had in her mind, but had hesitated to carry out, on account
                        of the distress that it would cause to her mother. Algitha's eyes glittered,
                        and her colour rose.
                    “I am not going to be hawked about the county till I am disposed of. It does
                        not console me in the least, that all the foxes are without
                        tails,” she went on, taking short cuts to her meaning, in her excitement. “I
                        am going to London with Mrs. Trevelyan, to help her in her work.”
                    “By Jove!” exclaimed Fred. Ernest whistled. Austin stared, with
                        open mouth.
                    Having recovered from the first shock of surprise, the family plied their
                        sister with questions. She said that she had long been thinking of accepting
                        the post offered her by Mrs. Trevelyan last year, and now she was resolved.
                        The work was really wise, useful work among the poor, which Algitha felt she
                        could do well. At home, there was nothing that she did that the housekeeper
                        could not do better. She felt herself
                        fretting and growing irritable, for mere want of some active employment.
                        This was utterly absurd, in an overworked world. Hadria had her music and
                        her study, at any rate, but Algitha had nothing that seemed worth doing; she
                        did not care to paint indifferently on china; she was a mere encumbrance—a
                        destroyer as Hadria put it—while there was so much, so very much, that
                        waited to be done. The younger sister made no comment.
                    “Next time I meet Harold Wilkins,” said Fred, drawing a long breath, “I will
                        tell him that if a girl does not marry, she can devote herself to the
                        poor.”
                    “Or that she can remain to be the family consolation, eh, Hadria? By Jove,
                        what a row there will be!”
                    The notion of Hadria in the capacity of the family consolation, created a
                        shout of laughter. It had always been her function to upset foregone
                        conclusions, overturn orthodox views, and generally disturb the conformity
                        of the family attitude. Now the sedate and established qualities would be
                        expected of her. Hadria must be the stay and hope of the house!
                    Fred continued to chuckle, at intervals, over the idea.
                    “It does seem to indicate rather a broken-down family!” said
                        Ernest.
                    “I wish one of you boys would undertake the position instead of laughing at
                            me,” exclaimed Hadria in mock resentment. “I wish
                            you would go to eternal tennis-parties, and pay calls, and
                        bills, and write notes, and do little useless necessary things, more or less
                        all day. I wish you had before you the choice between that
                        existence and the career of Mrs. Gordon, with the sole chance of escape from
                        either fate, in ruthlessly trampling upon the bleeding hearts of two beloved
                        parents!”
                    “Thank you kindly,” said Fred, “but we infinitely prefer to laugh at
                        you.”
                    “Man's eternal reply to woman, admirably paraphrased!” commented Hadria.
                    
                    Everyone was anxious to know when Algitha intended to go to London. Nobody
                        doubted for a moment that she would hold to her purpose; as Fred said, she
                        was so “beastly obstinate.”
                    Algitha had not fixed any time. It would depend on her mother. She wished to
                        make things as little painful as possible. That it was her duty to spare her
                        pain altogether by remaining at home, Algitha refused to admit. She and
                        Hadria had thought out the question from all sides. The work she was going
                        to do was useful, but she did not justify herself on that ground. She
                        claimed the right to her life and her liberty, apart from what she intended
                        to do with either. She owed it to her own conscience alone to make good use
                        of her liberty. “I don't want to pose as a philanthropist,” she added,
                        “though I honestly do desire to be of service. I want to spread my wings.
                        And why should I not? Nobody turns pale when Ernest wants to spread
                            his. How do I know what life is like, or how best to use
                        it, if I remain satisfied with my present ignorance? How can I even
                        appreciate what I possess, if I have nothing to compare it with? Of course,
                        the truly nice and womanly thing to do, is to remain at home, waiting to be
                        married. I have elected to be unwomanly.”
                    “I wonder how all this will turn out,” said Ernest, “whether you won't regret
                        it some day when it is too late.”
                    “Don't people always regret what they do—some day?” asked
                        Hadria.
                    “Perhaps so, especially if they do it sooner than other people.”
                    “When are you going to make the announcement at head quarters?” asked
                        Fred.
                    There was a pause. The colour had left Algitha's cheeks. She answered at
                        length with an effort—
                    “I shall speak to mother to-day.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    MRS. FULLERTON had gone to the study, to consult with her husband on
                        some matter of domestic importance. It was a long, low-pitched room,
                        situated in the part of the house that stood at right angles to the central
                        block, with long, narrow windows looking on to a rough orchard. A few old
                        portraits, very yellow and somewhat grotesque, hung on the walls; a wood
                        fire burnt on the hob-grate, and beside it stood a vast arm chair,
                        considerably worn, with depressions shewing where its owner had been leaning
                        his head, day after day, when he smoked his pipe, or took his after-dinner
                        nap. The bookshelves were stocked with scientific works, and some volumes on
                        philosophy of a materialistic character. With the exception of Robert Burns,
                        not one poet was represented.
                    The owner of the house sat before a big writing-table, which was covered with
                        papers. His face was that of a hard thinker; the head was fine in form, the
                        forehead broad and high; the features regular, almost severe. The severity
                        was softened by a genial expression. Mrs. Fullerton, though also obviously
                        above the average of humanity, shewed signs of incomplete development. The
                        shape of the head and brow promised many faculties that the expression of
                        the face did not encourage one to expect. She was finely built; and carried
                        herself with dignity. When her daughters accompanied her on a round of calls
                        in the neighbourhood, they expressed a certain quality in her appearance, in
                        rough and ready terms: “Other married women always look such fools beside
                        mother!”
                    And they did.
                    
                    Mrs. Fullerton wore her fine black hair brushed neatly over her forehead; her
                        eyes were large, and keen in expression. The mouth shewed determination. It
                        was easy to see that this lady had unbounded belief in her husband's wisdom,
                        except in social matters, for which he cared nothing. On that point she had
                        to keep her ambitions to herself. In questions of philosophy, she had
                        imbibed his tenets unmodified, and though she went regularly every Sunday to
                        the close little Scottish church at Ballochcoil, she had no more respect
                        than her husband had, for the doctrines that were preached there.
                    “No doubt it is all superstition and nonsense,” she used to say, “but in this
                        country, one can't afford to fly in the face of prejudice. It would
                        seriously tell against the girls.”
                    “Well, have your own way,” Mr. Fullerton would reply, “but I can't see the
                        use of always bothering about what people will think. What more do the girls
                        want than a good home and plenty of lawn-tennis? They'll get husbands fast
                        enough, without your asphyxiating yourself every Sunday in their
                        interests.”
                    In her youth, Mrs. Fullerton had shewn signs of qualities which had since
                        been submerged. Her husband had influenced her development profoundly, to
                        the apparent stifling of every native tendency. A few volumes of poetry, and
                        other works of imagination, bore testimony to the lost sides of her
                        nature.
                    Mr. Fullerton thought imagination “all nonsense,” and his wife had no doubt
                        he was right, though there was something to be said for one or two of the
                        poets. The buried impulses had broken out, like a half-smothered flame, in
                        her children, especially in her younger daughter. Singularly enough, the
                        mother regarded these qualities, partly inherited from herself, as erratic
                        and annoying. The memory of her own youth taught her no sympathy.
                    It was a benumbed sort of life that she led, in her picturesque old home,
                        whose charm she perceived but dimly with the remnants of her lost
                        aptitudes.
                    
                    “Picturesque!” Mr. Fullerton used to cry with a snort; “why not say
                        ‘unhealthy’ and be done with it?”
                    From these native elements of character, modified in so singular a fashion in
                        the mother's life, the children of this pair had drawn certain of their
                        peculiarities. The inborn strength and authenticity of the parents had
                        transmuted itself, in the younger generation, to a spirit of free enquiry,
                        and an audacity of thought which boded ill for Mrs. Fullerton's ambitions.
                        The talent in her daughters, from which she had hoped so much, seemed likely
                        to prove a most dangerous obstacle to their success. Why was it that clever
                        people were never sensible?
                    The gong sounded for luncheon. Austin put his head in at the door of the
                        study, to ask if his father would shew him a drop of ditch-water through the
                        microscope, in the afternoon.
                    “If you will provide the ditch-water, I will provide the microscope,”
                        promised Mr. Fullerton genially.
                    Luncheon, usually a merry meal at Dunaghee, passed off silently. There was a
                        sense of oppression in the air. Algitha and her sister made spasmodic
                        remarks, and there were long pauses. The conversation was chiefly sustained
                        by the parents and the ever-talkative Fred.
                    The latter had some anecdotes to tell of the ravages made by wasps.
                    “If Buchanan would only adopt my plan of destroying them,” said Mr.
                        Fullerton, “we should soon get rid of the pest.”
                    “It's some chemical, isn't it?” asked Mrs. Fullerton.
                    “Oh, no; that's no use at all! Wasps positively enjoy chemicals. What you do
                        is this—.” And then followed a long and minute explanation of his plan,
                        which had the merit of extreme originality.
                    Mr. Fullerton had his own particular way of doing everything, a piece of
                        presumption which was naturally resented, with proper spirit, by his
                        neighbours. He found it an expensive luxury. In the management of the
                        estate, he had outraged the feelings of every landlord and land-agent
                            within a radius of many miles, but he
                        gained the affection of his tenants, and this he seemed to value more than
                        the approval of his fellow-proprietors. In theory, he stuck out for his
                        privileges; in practice, he was the friend and brother of the poorest on the
                        estate. In his mode of farming he was as eccentric as in his method of
                        management. He had taken Croachmore into his own hands, and this devoted
                        farm had become the subject of a series of drastic scientific experiments,
                        to the great grief and indignation of his bailiff.
                    Mrs. Fullerton believed implicitly in the value of these experiments, and so
                        long as her husband tried science only on the farm she had no misgivings;
                        but, alas, he had lately taken shares in some company, that was to
                        revolutionize agriculture through an ingenious contrivance for collecting
                        nitrogen from the atmosphere. Mr. Fullerton was confident that the new
                        method was to be a gigantic success. But on this point, his wife uneasily
                        shook her head. She had even tried to persuade Mr. Fullerton to rid himself
                        of his liability. It was so great, she argued, and why should one be made
                        anxious? But her husband assured her that she didn't understand anything
                        about it; women ought not to meddle in business matters; it was a stupendous
                        discovery, sure to make the fortunes of the original shareholders.
                    “When once the prejudice against a new thing has been got over,” said the man
                        of science, “you will see—the thing will go like wild-fire.”
                    Many years afterwards, these words were remembered by Mrs. Fullerton, and she
                        bitterly regretted that she had not urged the matter more strenuously.
                    “Well, Algitha,” said her father, wondering at her silence, “how are the
                        roses getting on? And I hope you have not forgotten the sweet-brier that you
                        promised to grow for me.”
                    “Oh, no, father, the sweet-brier has been ordered,” returned Algitha, without
                        her usual brightness of manner.
                    “Have you a headache?” enquired Mrs. Fullerton. “I hope you have not all been
                        sitting up talking in Hadria's room, as you
                        are too fond of doing. You have the whole day in which to express your
                        ideas, and I think you might let the remainder wait over till morning.”
                    “We were rather late last night,” Algitha confessed.
                    “Pressure of ideas overpowering,” added Fred.
                    “When I was young, ideas would never have been tolerated in
                        young people for a moment,” said Mrs. Fullerton, “it would have been
                        considered a mark of ill-breeding. You may think yourselves lucky to be born
                        at this end of the century, instead of the other.”
                    “Indeed we do!” exclaimed Ernest. “It's getting jolly interesting!
                    “In some respects, no doubt we have advanced,” observed his mother, “but I
                        confess I don't understand all your modern notions. Everybody seems to be
                        getting discontented. The poor want to be rich, and the rich want to be
                        millionaires; men want to do their master's work, and women want to do
                        men's; everything is topsy-turvy!”
                    “The question is: What constitutes being right side up?” said Ernest. “One
                        can't exactly say what is topsy-turvy till one knows that.”
                    “When I was young we thought we did know,” said Mrs. Fullerton,
                        “but no doubt we are old-fashioned.”
                    When luncheon was over, Mr. Fullerton went to the garden with his family,
                        according to a time-honoured custom. His love of flowers sometimes made
                        Hadria wonder whether her father also had been born with certain instincts,
                        which the accidents of life had stifled or failed to develop. Terrible was
                        the tyranny of circumstance! What had Emerson been dreaming of?
                    Mr. Fullerton, with a rose-bud in his button-hole, went off with the boys for
                        a farming walk. Mrs. Fullerton returned to the house, and the sisters were
                        left pacing together in the sheltered old garden, between two rows of
                        gorgeous autumn flowers.
                    Hadria felt sick with dread of the coming interview.
                    
                    Algitha was buoyed up, for the moment, by a strong conviction that she was in
                        the right.
                    “It can't be fair even for parents to order one's whole life according to
                        their pleasure,” she said. “Other girls submit, I know—”
                    “And so the world is full of abortive, ambiguous beings, fit for nothing. The
                        average woman always seem to me to be muffled—or morbid.”
                    “That's what I should become if I pottered about here much
                        longer,” said Algitha—“morbid; and if there is one thing on the face of the
                        earth that I loathe, it is morbidness.”
                    Both sisters were instinctively trying to buttress up Algitha's courage, by
                        strengthening her position with additional arguments.
                    “Is it fair,” Hadria asked, “to summon children into the world, and then run
                        up bills against them for future payment? Why should one not see the
                        bearings of the matter?”
                    “In theory one can see them clearly enough; but it is poor comfort when it
                        comes to practice.”
                    “Oh, seeing the bearings of things is always poor comfort!”
                        exclaimed the younger sister, with sudden vehemence. “Upon my word, I think
                        it is better, after all, to absorb indiscriminately whatever idiotcy may
                        happen to be around one, and go with the crowd.”
                    “Nonsense!” cried Algitha, who had no sympathy with these passionate
                        discouragements that alternated, in Hadria, with equally passionate
                        exaltations.
                    “When you have gone, I will ask Mrs. Gordon to teach me the spirit of
                        acquiescence, and one of those distracting games—bésique or halma, or some
                        of the other infernal pastimes that heaven decrees for recalcitrant spirits
                        in need of crushing discipline.”
                    “I think I see you!” Algitha exclaimed with a dispirited laugh.
                    “It will be a trial,” Hadria admitted; “but it is said that suffering strengthens the character. You may look
                        forward before long, to claiming as sister a creature of iron purpose.”
                    “I wonder, I wonder,” cried Algitha, bending her fine head; “we owe
                        everything to her.”
                    “I know we do. It's of no use disguising the unpleasant side of the matter. A
                        mother disappointed in her children must be a desperately unhappy woman. She
                        has nothing left; for has she not resigned everything for them? But is
                        sacrifice for ever to follow on sacrifice? Is life to go rolling after life,
                        like the cheeses that the idiot in the fable sent running downhill, the one
                        to fetch the other back?”
                    “Yes, for ever,” said Algitha, “until a few dare to break through the
                        tradition, and then everyone will wonder at its folly. If only I could talk
                        the matter over, in a friendly spirit, with mother, but she won't let me.
                        Ahl! if it were not that one is born with feelings and energies and
                        ambitions of one's own, parents might treat one as a showman treats his
                        marionettes, and we should all be charmed to lie prone on our backs, or to
                        dance as may be convenient to our creators. But, as it is, the life of a
                        marionette—how ever affectionate the wire-pullers—does become monotonous
                        after a time.”
                    “As to that,” said the younger sister, with a little raising of the brows, as
                        if half shrinking from what she meant to say, “I think most parents regard
                        their children with such favourable eyes, not so much because they are
                            they as because they are theirs.”
                    The sisters paced the length of the garden without speaking. Then Hadria came
                        to a standstill at the sun-dial, at the crossing of the paths, and began
                        absently to trace the figures of the hours, with the stalk of a rose.
                    “After all,” she said, “parents are presumably not actuated by humanitarian
                        motives in bringing one into this wild world. They don't even profess to
                        have felt an unselfish desire to see one enjoying oneself at their expense
                        (though, as a matter of fact, what enjoyment one has generally
                            is at their expense). People are always enthusiastically
                        congratulated on the arrival of a new
                        child, though it be the fourteenth, and the income two hundred a year! This
                        seems to point to a pronounced taste for new children, regardless of the
                        consequences!”
                    “Oh, of course,” said Algitha, “it's one of the canons! Women, above all, are
                        expected to jubilate at all costs. And I think most of them do, more or less
                        sincerely.”
                    “Very well then,” cried Hadria, “it is universally admitted that children are
                        summoned into the world to gratify parental instincts. Yet the parents throw
                        all the onus of existence, after all, upon the children, and make
                            them pay for it, and apologise for it, and justify it by a
                        thousand sacrifices and an ever-flowing gratitude.”
                    “I am quite ready to give gratitude and sacrifice too,” said Algitha, “but I
                        don't feel that I ought to sacrifice everything to an idea that
                        seems to me wrong. Surely a human being has a right to his own life. If he
                        has not that, what, in heaven's name, has he?”
                    “Anything but that!” cried Hadria.
                    
                    While the momentous interview was going on, Hadria walked restlessly up and
                        down the garden, feverishly waiting. The borders were brilliant with vast
                        sunflowers, white lilies, and blazing “red-hot pokers” tangled together in
                        splendid profusion, a very type of richness and glory of life. Such was the
                        sort of existence that Hadria claimed from Fate. Her eyes turned to the
                        bare, forlorn hills that even the August sunshine could not conjure into
                        sumptuousness, and there she saw the threatened reality.
                    When at last Algitha's fine figure appeared at the further end of the path,
                        Hadria hastened forward and took her sister's arm.
                    “It was worse than I had feared,” Algitha said, with a quiver in her voice.
                        “I know I am right, and yet it seems almost more than I am
                        equal for. When I told mother, she turned deadly white, and I thought, for a
                        moment, that she was going to faint. Let's sit down on this seat.”
                    
                    “Oh, it was horrible, Hadria! Mother must have been cherishing hopes about
                        us, in a way that I don't think she quite knew herself. After that first
                        moment of wretchedness, she flew into a passion of rage—that dreadful,
                        tearing anger that people only feel when something of themselves is being
                        wrenched away from them. She said that her children were all bad and
                        unnatural; that she had spent her whole life in their interests; that if it
                        had not been for her, we should all of us have grown up without education or
                        accomplishments, or looks, or anything else; that she watched over us
                        incessantly when we were little children, denying herself, spending her
                        youth in devotion to us, when she might have gone into the world, and had
                        some brightness and pleasure. If we imagined that she had never felt the
                        dulness of her life, and never longed to go about and see people and things,
                        we were much mistaken. But she had renounced everything she cared for, from
                        her girlhood—she was scarcely older than I when her sacrifices began—and now
                        her children gave no consideration to her; they were ready to scatter
                        themselves hither and thither without a thought of her, or her wishes. They
                        even talked scoffingly of the kind of life that she had led for
                            them—for them, she repeated bitterly.”
                    Hadria's face had clouded.
                    “Truly parents must have a bad time of it!” she exclaimed, “but does it
                        really console them that their children should have a bad time of it
                        too?”
                    Algitha was trembling and very pale.
                    “Mother says I shall ruin my life by this fad. What real good am I going to
                        do? She says it is absurd the way we talk of things we know nothing
                        about.”
                    “But she won't let us know about things; one must talk about
                            something!” cried Hadria with a dispirited laugh.
                    “She says she has experience of life, and we are ignorant of it. I reminded
                        her that our ignorance was not exactly our fault.”
                    “Ah! precisely. Parents thrown their children's ignorance in their teeth, having taken precious good care
                        to prevent their knowing anything. I can't understand parents; they must
                        have been young themselves once. Yet they seem to have forgotten all about
                        it. They keep us hoodwinked and infantile, and then launch us headlong into
                        life, with all its problems to meet, and all momentous decisions made for
                        us, past hope of undoing.” Hadria rose restlessly in her excitement. “Surely
                        no creature was ever dealt with so insanely as the well-brought-up girl!
                        Surely no well-wisher so sincere as the average parent ever ill-treated his
                        charge so preposterously.”
                    Again there was a long silence, filled with painful thought. “One begins to
                        understand a little, why women do things that one despises, and why the
                        proudest of them so often submit to absolute indignity. You remember when
                        Mrs. Arbuthnot and—”
                    “Ah, don't!” cried Algitha, flushing. “Nothing ought to induce a
                        woman to endure that.”
                    “H'm—I suspect the world that we know nothing about, Algitha, has ways and
                        means of applying the pressure such as you and I scarcely dream of.” Hadria
                        spoke with half-closed eyes that seemed to see deep and far. “I have read
                        and heard things that have almost taken my breath away! I feel as if I could
                            kill every man who acquiesces in the present order of
                        things. It is an insult to every woman alive!”
                    In Hadria's room that night, Algitha finally decided to delay her going for
                        another six months, hoping by that time that her mother would have grown
                        used to the idea, and less opposed to it. Mr. Fullerton dismissed it, as
                        obviously absurd. But this high-handed treatment roused all the
                        determination that Algitha had inherited from her father. The six months had
                        to be extended, in order to procure funds. Algitha had a small income of her
                        own, left her by her godmother, Miss Fortescue. She put aside this, for her
                        purpose. Further delay, through Mrs. Trevelyan, brought the season round
                        again to autumn, before Algitha was able to make her final preparations for
                        departure.
                    
                    “Do try and reconcile them to the idea,” she said to her sister, as they
                        stood on the platform of Ballochcoil station, very white and
                        wretched-looking.
                    “It breaks my heart to see father look so fixed and angry, and mother so
                        miserable. I am not going away for ever. Dear me, a day's journey will bring
                        me back, at any time.”
                    “I'll do my best,” said Hadria, “here's your train; what a clumsy instrument
                        of fate it does look!”
                    There was not much time for farewells. In a few minutes the train was
                        steaming out of the station. A solitary figure stood on the platform,
                        watching the monster curving and diminishing along the line, with its white
                        smoke soaring merrily into the air, in great rolling masses, that melted, as
                        if by some incantation, from thick, snow-like whiteness to rapid
                        annihilation.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    AS Hadria drove over the winding upland road back to her home, her
                        thoughts followed her sister into her new existence, and then turned
                        wistfully backwards to the days that had been marked off into the past by
                        Algitha's departure. How bright and eager and hopeful they had all been, how
                        full of enthusiasm and generous ambitions! Even as they talked of battle,
                        they stretched forth their hands for the crown of victory.
                    At the last meeting of the Preposterous Society, Ernest had repeated a poem
                        of his favourite Emerson, called Days, and the poem, which was
                        familiar to Hadria, sounded in her memory, as the pony trotted merrily along
                        the well-known homeward way.
                    
                        Daughters of Time, the hypocritic Days,
                        Muffled and dumb, like barefoot Dervishes,
                        And marching single in an endless file,
                        Bring diadems and faggots in their hands.
                        To each they offer gifts after his will,
                        Bread, kingdoms, stars, and sky that holds them all.
                        I, in my pleached garden, watched the pomp,
                        Forgot my morning wishes, hastily
                        Took a few herbs and apples, and the Day
                        Turned and departed silent. I, too late,
                        Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn.”
                    
                    In spite of Hadria's memorable lecture of a year ago, it was still the
                        orthodox creed of the Society, that Circumstance is the handmaid of the
                        Will; that one can demand of one's days “bread, kingdoms, stars, or sky,”
                        and that the Days will obediently produce the objects desired. If one has
                        but the spirit that can soar high enough to really be resolved upon stars,
                        or the ambition sufficiently vaulting to be determined on kingdoms, then—so ran the dogma—stars and
                        kingdoms would be forthcoming, though obstacles were never so determined. No
                        member except Hadria had ever dreamt of insinuating that one might have a
                        very pronounced taste for stars and kingdoms—nay, a taste so dominant that
                        life would be worthless unless they were achieved—yet might be forced, by
                        the might of events, to forego them. Hadria's own heresy had been of the
                        head rather than of the heart. But to-day, feeling began to share the
                        scepticism of the intellect.
                    What if one's stars and kingdoms lay on the further side of a crime or a
                        cruelty?
                    What then was left but to gather up one's herbs and apples, and bear, as best
                        one might, the scorn of the unjust Days?
                    Hadria cast about in her mind for a method of utilizing to the best advantage
                        possible, the means at her disposal: to force circumstance to yield a
                        harvest to her will. To be the family consolation meant no light task, for
                        Mrs. Fullerton was exacting by nature: she had given much, and she expected
                        much in return. Her logic was somewhat faulty, but that could not be
                        gracefully pointed out to her by her daughter. Having allowed her own
                        abilities to decay, Mrs. Fullerton had developed an extraordinary power of
                        interfering with the employment of the abilities of others. Hadria had
                        rather underrated than exaggerated this difficulty. Her mother would keep
                        her for hours, discussing a trivial point of domestic business, giving
                        elaborate directions about it, only to do it herself in the end. She spent
                        her whole life in trifles of this kind, or over social matters. Everything
                        was done cumbrously, with an incredible amount of toil and consideration,
                        and without any noticeable results. Hadria, fighting against a multitude of
                        harassing little difficulties, struggled to turn the long winter months to
                        some use. But Mrs. Fullerton broke the good serviceable time into jagged
                        fragments.
                    “I really can't see,” said the mother, when the daughter proposed to set
                        apart certain hours for household duties, and to have other portions of the
                        day to herself, “I really can't see why a
                        girl's little occupations should be treated with so much consideration.
                        However, I have no wish for grudging assistance.”
                    Hadria's temper was far indeed from perfect, and painful scenes often
                        occurred. But as a rule, she would afterwards be seized with a fit of
                        remorse, knowing that her mother was suffering bitterly from her keen
                        disappointment about Algitha. The failure of a life-long hope must try the
                        endurance of the bravest. Mrs. Fullerton, seeing that Hadria was more
                        patient, quickly took advantage of the favourable moment, with a rapid
                        instinct that had often done her good service in the management of a niggard
                        destiny. The valuable mood must not be allowed to die fruitless. The elder
                        girl's defection thus became, to the mother, a sort of investment, bearing
                        interest of docility in the younger. Because the heartless Algitha had left
                        home, it seemed to Mrs. Fullerton that the very least that Hadria could do,
                        was to carry out her mother's lightest wish.
                    And so the weeks went by, in dreary, troublous fashion, cut into a hundred
                        little barren segments. The mind had no space, or stretch, or solitude. It
                        was incessantly harassed, and its impetus was perpetually checked. But
                        Hadria hoped on. This could not last for ever. Some day, doubtless, if she
                        sank not in spirit, the stars and the kingdoms would come.
                    Meanwhile, the position of affairs was decidedly ridiculous. She was here as
                        the family consolation, and nobody seemed to be consoled! Her efforts had
                        been sincere and even enthusiastic, but the boys only laughed at her, in
                        this rôle, and nobody was apparently in the least gratified (except those
                        imps of boys!).
                    For a long time, Mrs. Fullerton seemed to be oblivious of her daughter's
                        efforts, but one day, when they had been talking about Algitha, the mother
                        said: “Your father and I now look to you, Hadria. I do think that you are
                        beginning to feel a little what your duty is. If you also were
                        to turn deserter in our old age, I think it would kill us.”
                    
                    Hadria felt a thrill of horror. The network of Fate seemed to be fast closing
                        round her. The temporary was to become fixed. She must act all her days
                        according to the conviction of others, or her parents would die of
                        grief!
                    When she went to the hills that afternoon, she felt as if she must walk on
                        and on into the dreamy distance, away from all these toils and claims, away
                        into the unknown world and never return. But, alas! the night descended and
                        return she must. These wild impulses could never be followed.
                    The day had been peculiarly harassing and cut up; some neighbours had been to
                        afternoon tea and tennis, and the sight of their faces and the sound of
                        their talk had caused, in Hadria, an unutterable depression. The light,
                        conventional phrases rang in her ears still, the expression of the faces
                        haunted her, and into her heart crept a chill that benumbed every wish and
                        hope and faith that she had ever cherished.
                    She sat up late into the night. Since freedom and solitude could not be had
                        by day, the nights were often her sole opportunity. At such times she would
                        work out her musical ideas, which in the dead silence of the house were
                        brought forth plentifully. These, from her point of view, were the fruitful
                        hours of the twenty-four. Thoughts would throng the darkness like swarms of
                        living things.
                    Hadria's mood found expression to-night in a singular and most melancholy
                        composition. She called it Futility.
                    It was unlike anything that she had ever done before, and she felt that it
                        shewed an access of musical power.
                    She dreamt an absurd dream: That she was herself one of those girls with the
                        high pattering accents, playing tennis without ceasing and with apparent
                        cheerfulness; talking just as they had talked, and about just the same
                        things; and all the time, a vast circle of shadowy forms stood watching,
                        beckoning, and exhorting and warning, and turning away, at last, in
                        sorrowful contempt, because she preferred to spend her youth eternally in
                        futilities. And then they all slowly drifted by with sad eyes fixed on her,
                        and she was still left playing, playing.
                        And it seemed as if whole weeks passed in that way, and she grew mortally
                        tired, but some power prevented her from resting. The evil spell held her
                        enthralled. Always cheerful, always polite and agreeable, she continued her
                        task, finding herself growing accustomed to it at last, and duly resigned to
                        the necessity, wearisome though it was. Then all hope that the game would
                        ever cease went away, and she played on, mechanically, but always with that
                        same polite cheerfulness, as of afternoon calls. She would not for the world
                        admit that she was tired. But she was so tired that existence became a
                        torture to her, and her heart seemed about to break with the intolerable
                        strain—when she woke up with a start, and found herself lying in a
                        constrained attitude, half-choked by the bed-clothes.
                    She did not see the comic side of the dream till next morning, when she told
                        it at breakfast for the benefit of the family.
                    As Hadria was an ardent tennis-player, it struck her brethren as a
                        particularly inappropriate form of nightmare.
                    Hadria, at this time, went frequently with her father on his farming walks,
                        as he liked to have one or more of the family with him. She enjoyed these
                        walks, for Mr. Fullerton would talk about philosophy and science, often of
                        the most abstruse and entrancing kind. His children were devoted to him.
                        During these expeditions, they always vied with one another to ferret out
                        the most absurd story to tell him, he being held as conqueror who made their
                        father laugh most heartily. Sometimes they all went in a body, armed with
                        wild stories; and occasionally, across the open fields, a row of
                        eccentric-looking figures might be seen, struggling in the grip of hilarious
                        paroxysms; Mr. Fullerton doubled up in the middle of a turnip-field,
                        perhaps, with his family in contortions round him. The air of the hills
                        seemed to run to their heads, like wine. Roulades of laughter, hearty
                        guffaws, might have been heard for surprising distances, much to the
                        astonishment of the sober labourers bending over their toil.
                    
                    Ernest had to go back to college; Fred and Austin to school. The house seemed
                        very quiet and sad after the boys left, and Hadria missed her sister more
                        and more, as time went on.
                    Algitha wrote most happily.
                    “With all its drawbacks, this existence of hard work (yet not too hard) suits
                        me exactly. It uses up my energies; yet, in spite of the really busy life I
                        lead, I literally have more leisure than I used to have at home, where all
                        through the day, there was some little detail to be attended to, some call
                        to make, some convention to offer incense to, some prejudice to respect.
                        Here, once my day's work is over, it is over, and I have good
                        solid hours of leisure. I feel that I have earned those hours when they
                        come; also that I have earned a right to my keep, as Wilfred Burton, the
                        socialist, puts it somewhat crudely. When I go to bed at night, I can say:
                        ‘Because of me, this day, heavy hearts have been made a little lighter.’ I
                        hear all sorts of opinions, and see all sorts of people. I never was so
                        happy in my life.”
                    It was Hadria's habit still to take solitary rambles over the country. A
                        passionate lover of Nature, she found endless pleasure in its ever-changing
                        aspects. Yet of late, a new feeling had begun to mutter angrily within her:
                        a resentment against these familiar sights and sounds, because they were the
                        boundaries of her horizon. She hated the line of the round breezy hills
                        where the row of fir-trees stood against the sky, because that was the edge
                        of her world, and she wanted to see what was beyond. She must and would see
                        what was beyond, some day. Her hope was always vague; for if she dared to
                        wonder how the curtain of life was to be lifted, she had to face the fact
                        that there was no reasonable prospect of such a lifting. Still, the utter
                        horror of living on always, in this fashion, seemed to prove it
                        impossible.
                    On one dim afternoon, when the sun was descending, Hadria's solitary figure
                        was noticed by a white-haired lady, presumably a tourist, who had stopped to
                        ask a question of some farm labourers, working in a field. She ceased to listen to the information, on the
                        subject of Dunaghee, that was given to her in a broad Scottish dialect. The
                        whole scene, which an instant before had impressed her as one of beauty and
                        peace, suddenly focussed itself round the dark figure, and grew sinister in
                        its aspect. At that moment, nothing would have persuaded the onlooker that
                        the hastening figure was not hastening towards misfortune.
                    A woman of impulse, she set off in purposeless pursuit. Hadria's pace was
                        very rapid; she was trying to outrun thought. It was impossible to live
                        without hope, yet hope, in this forlorn land, was growing faint and
                        tired.
                    Her pursuer was a remarkable-looking woman, no longer young, with her
                        prematurely white hair drawn up from her brow with a proud sweep that suited
                        well her sharply defined features and her air of defiance. She was
                        carelessly dressed after the prevailing fashion, and gave the impression of
                        not having her life successfully in hand, but rather of being driven by it,
                        as by a blustering wind, against her inclination.
                    The impression which had seized her, a moment ago, deepened as she went.
                        Something in the scene and the hastening figure roused a sense of dread.
                        With her, an impression was like a spark to gunpowder. Her imagination
                        blazed up. Life, in its most tragic aspect, seemed before her in the lonely
                        scene, with the lonely figure, moving, as if in pursuit of a lost hope,
                        towards the setting sun.
                    If Hadria had not paused on the brow of the hill, it is unlikely that she
                        would have been overtaken, but that pause decided the matter. The stranger
                        seemed suddenly to hesitate, wondering, apparently, what she had done this
                        eccentric thing for.
                    Hadria, feeling a presence behind her, turned nervously round and gave a
                        slight start.
                    It was so rare to meet anybody on these lonely hills, that the apparition of
                        a striking-looking woman with white hair, dark eyes, and a strange exalted
                        sort of expression, gave a shock of surprise.
                    
                    As the lady had stopped short, Hadria supposed that she had lost her way, and
                        wished to make some enquiries.
                    “Can I direct you, or give you any assistance?” she asked, after a second's
                        pause.
                    “Oh, thank you, you are very kind. I have come over from Ballochcoil to
                        explore the country. I have been trying to find out the history of the old
                        houses of the district. Could you tell me, by the way, anything about that
                        house with the square tower at the end; I have been loitering round it half
                        the afternoon. And I would have given anything to know its history, and what
                        it is like inside.”
                    “Well, I can help you there, for that old house is my home. If you have time
                        to come with me now, I will show you all over it,” said Hadria,
                        impulsively.
                    “That is too tempting an offer. And yet I really don't like to intrude in
                        this way. I am a perfect stranger to you and—your parents I suppose?”
                    “They will be delighted,” Hadria assured her new acquaintance, somewhat
                        imprudently.
                    “Well, I can't resist the temptation,” said the latter, and they walked on
                        together.
                    Hadria related what she knew about the history of the house. Very scanty
                        records had survived. It had obviously been one of the old Scottish
                        strongholds, built in the lawless days when the country was plunged in feuds
                        and chieftains lived on plunder. A few traditions lingered about it: among
                        them that of a chief who had carried off, by force, the daughter of his
                        bitterest enemy, in revenge for some deed of treachery. He had tortured her
                        with insolent courtship, and then starved her to death in a garret in the
                        tower, while her father and his followers assaulted its thick walls in
                        vain.
                    “The tradition is, that on stormy nights one can still hear the sound of the
                        attack, the shouts of the men and the father's imprecations.”
                    “A horrible story!”
                    
                    “When people say the world has not progressed, I always think of that story,
                        and remember that such crimes were common in those days,” Hadria
                        remarked.
                    “I doubt if we are really less ferocious to-day,” the other said; “our
                        ferocity is directed against the weakest, now as then, but there are happily
                        not so many weak, so we get the credit of being juster, without expense. As
                        a matter of fact, our opportunities are less, and so we make a virtue of
                        necessity—with a vengeance!”
                    Hadria looked at her companion with startled interest. “Will you tell me to
                        whom I have the pleasure of speaking?” the lady asked.
                    “My name is Fullerton—Hadria Fullerton.”
                    “Thank you. And here is my card, at least I think it is. Oh, no, that is a
                        friend's card! How very tiresome! I am reduced to pronouncing my own
                        name—Miss Du Prel, Valeria Du Prel; you may know it.”
                    Hadria came to a sudden standstill. She might know it! she might indeed.
                        Valeria Du Prel had long been to her a name to swear by.
                    “Miss Du Prel! Is that—are you—may I ask, are you the writer of those
                        wonderful books?”
                    Miss Du Prel gave a gratified smile. “I am glad they please you.”
                    “Ah! if you could guess how I have longed to know you. I simply can't believe
                        it.”
                    “And so my work has really given you pleasure?”
                    “Pleasure! It has given me hope, it has given me courage, it has given me
                        faith in all that is worth living for. It was an epoch in my life when I
                        first read your Parthena.”
                    Miss Du Prel seemed so genuinely pleased by this enthusiasm that Hadria was
                        surprised.
                    “I have plenty of compliments, but very seldom a word that makes me feel that
                        I have spoken to the heart. I feel as if I had called in the darkness and
                        had no response, or like one who has cried from the house-tops to a city of
                        the dead.”
                    
                    “And I so often thought of writing to you, but did not like to intrude,”
                        cried Hadria.
                    “Ah! if you only had written to me!” Miss Du Prel exclaimed.
                    Hadria gazed incredulously at the familiar scene, as they approached the back
                        of the house, with its round tower and its confusion of picturesque,
                        lichen-covered roofs. An irregular circle of stately trees stood as
                        sentinels round the stronghold.
                    After all, something did happen, once in a while, in this remote corner of
                        the universe, whose name, Hadria used to think, had been erased from the
                        book of Destiny. She was perhaps vaguely disappointed to find that the
                        author of Parthena wore ordinary human serge, and a cape cut
                        after the fashion of any other person's cape. Still, she had no idea what
                        supersensuous material she could reasonably have demanded of her heroine
                        (unless it were the mythic “bombazine” that Ernest used to talk about, in
                        his ignorant efforts to describe female apparel), or what transcendental
                        form of cape would have satisfied her imagination.
                    “You have a lovely home,” said Valeria Du Prel, “you must be very happy
                        here.”
                    “Would you be happy here?”
                    “Well, of course that would depend. I am, I fear, too roving by nature to
                        care to stay long in one place. Still I envy girls their home-life in the
                        country; it is so healthy and free.”
                    Hadria, without answering, led her companion round the flank of the tower,
                        and up to the front door. It was situated in the angle of the wings, a
                        sheltered nook, hospitably careful of the guest, whom the winds of the
                        uplands were disposed to treat but roughly.
                    Hadria and her companion entered a little panelled hall, whence a flight of
                        broad stairs with stout wooden balusters, of quaint design, led to the first
                        floor.
                    The visitor was charmed with the quiet old rooms, especially with Hadria's
                        bedroom in the tower, whose windows were so deep-set that they had to be
                        approached through a little tunnel cut out of the thickness of the wall. The
                            windows looked on to the orchard at the
                        back, and in front over the hills. Miss Du Prel was taken to see the scene
                        of the tragedy, and the meeting-room of the Preposterous Society.
                    “You must see the drawing-room,” said Hadria.
                    She opened a door as she spoke, and ushered her visitor into a large,
                        finely-proportioned room with three tall windows of stately form, divided
                        into oblong panes, against which vagrant sprays of ivy were gently
                        tapping.
                    This room was also panelled with painted wood; its character was quiet and
                        stately and reposeful. Yet one felt that many human lives had been lived in
                        it. It was full of the sentiment of the past, from the old prints and
                        portraits on the walls, to the delicate outlines of the wooden mantel-piece,
                        with its finely wrought urns and garlands.
                    Before this mantel-piece, with the firelight flickering in her face, sat Mrs.
                        Fullerton, working at a large piece of embroidery.
                    For the first time, Hadria hesitated. “Mother,” she said, “this is Miss Du
                        Prel. We met out on the hills this afternoon, and I have brought her home to
                        see the house, which she admires very much.”
                    Mrs. Fullerton had looked up in astonishment, at this incursion into her very
                        sanctuary, of a stranger met at haphazard on the hills. Hadria wheeled up an
                        easy-chair for the visitor.
                    “I fear Miss Du Prel will not find much to see in the old house,” said Mrs.
                        Fullerton, whose manner had grown rigid, partly because she was shy, partly
                        because she was annoyed with Hadria for her impulsive conduct, and largely
                        because she disliked the idea of a literary acquaintance for her daughter,
                        who was quite extraordinary enough as it was.
                    “We have been all over the house,” said Hadria hastily, with an anxious
                        glance at Miss Du Prel, whom she half expected to rise and walk out of the
                        room. It must surely be the first time in her life that her presence had not
                        been received as an honour!”
                    “It is all very old and shabby,” said Mrs. Fullerton. “I hope you will take some tea; if you have walked
                        far to-day, you must be cold and in need of something to eat.”
                    “Oh no, no, thank you,” returned the visitor; “I ought to be getting back to
                        Ballochcoil to-night.”
                    “To Ballochcoil!” exclaimed mother and daughter in simultaneous dismay. “But
                        it is nearly seven miles off, and the sun is down. You can't get back
                        to-night on foot.”
                    “Dear me, can I not? I suppose I forgot all about getting back, in the
                        interest of the scenery.”
                    “What an extraordinary person!” thought Mrs. Fullerton.
                    Miss Du Prel glanced helplessly at Hadria; rising then and looking out of the
                        window at the dusk, which had come on so rapidly. “Dear me, how dark it has
                        grown! Still I think I can walk it, or perhaps I can get a fly at some inn
                        on the way.”
                    “Can we offer you a carriage?” asked Mrs. Fullerton.
                    “Oh no, thank you; that is quite unnecessary. I have already intruded far too
                        long; I shall wend my way back, or what might perhaps be better, I could get
                        a lodging at the farmhouse down the road. I am told that they put travellers
                        up sometimes.”
                    Miss Du Prel hurried off, evidently chilled by Mrs. Fullerton's freezing
                        courtesy. Hadria, disregarding her mother's glance of admonition,
                        accompanied the visitor to the farm of Craw Gill, having first given
                        directions to old Maggie to put together a few things that Miss Du Prel
                        would require for the night. Hadria's popularity at the farm, secured her
                        new friend a welcome. Mrs. McEwen was a fine example of the best type of
                        Scottish character; warm of heart, honest of purpose, and full of a certain
                        unconscious poetry, and a dignity that lingers still in districts where the
                        railway whistle is not too often heard. Miss Du Prel seemed to nestle up to
                        the good woman, as a child to its mother after some scaring adventure. Mrs.
                        McEwen was recommending a hot water-bottle and gruel in case of a chill,
                        when Hadria wended her way homeward to brave her mother's wrath.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    “I CANNOT make you realize that you are an ignorant girl who knows
                        nothing of the world, and that it is necessary you should accept my
                        experience, and condescend to be guided by my wishes. You put me in a most
                        unpleasant position this afternoon, forcing me to receive a person whom I
                        have never been introduced to, or heard of—”
                    “Valeria Du Prel has been heard of throughout the English-speaking world,”
                        said Hadria rhetorically.
                    “So much the worse,” retorted Mrs. Fullerton. “No nicely brought up woman is
                        ever heard of outside her own circle.”
                    Hadria recalled a similar sentiment among the ancient Greeks, and thought how
                        hard an old idea dies.
                    “She might have been some awful person, some unprincipled adventuress, and
                        that I believe is what she is. What was she prowling about the back of our
                        house for, I should like to know?”
                    “I suspect she wanted to steal chickens or something,” Hadria was goaded into
                        suggesting, and the interview ended painfully.
                    When Hadria went to Craw Gill, next morning, to enquire for Miss Du Prel,
                        Mrs. McEwen said that the visitor had breakfasted in bed. The farmer's wife
                        also informed Miss Fullerton that the lady had decided to stay on at Craw
                        Gill, for some time. She had been looking out for a retreat of the kind.
                    “She seems a nice-like body,” said Mrs. McEwen, “and I see no objection to
                        the arrangement.”
                    Hadria's heart beat faster. Could it be possible that Valeria Du Prel was to
                        be a near neighbour? It seemed too good to be true!
                    When Miss Du Prel came down in her walking garments, she greeted Hadria with a certain absence of
                        mind, which smote chill upon the girl's eagerness.
                    “I wanted to know if you were comfortable, if I could do anything for you.”
                        Miss Du Prel woke up.
                    “Oh no, thank you; you are very kind. I am most comfortable—at least—it is
                        very strange, but I have lost my keys and my umbrella and my hand-bag-I
                        can't think what I can have done with them. Oh, and my purse is gone
                        too”
                    Thereupon Mrs. McEwen in dismay, Mr. McEwen (who then appeared), the maid,
                        and Hadria, hunted high and low for the missing properties, which were
                        brought to light, one by one, in places where their owner had already
                        thoroughly searched,” and about which she had long since abandoned hope.
                    She received them with mingled joy and amazement, and having responded to
                        Mrs. McEwen's questions as to what she would like for dinner, she proposed
                        to Hadria that they should take a walk together.
                    Hadria beamed. Miss Du Prel seemed both amused and gratified by her
                        companion's worship, and the talk ran on, in a light and pleasant vein,
                        differing from the talk of the ordinary mortal, Hadria considered, as
                        champagne differs from ditch-water.
                    In recording it for Algitha's benefit that evening, Hadria found that she
                        could not reproduce the exhilarating quality, or describe the influence of
                        Miss Du Prel's personality. It was as if, literally, a private and
                        particular atmosphere had encompassed her. She was “alive all round,” as her
                        disciple asserted. Her love of Nature was intense. Hadria had never before
                        realized that she had been without full sympathy in this direction. She
                        awoke to a strange retrospective sense of solitude, feeling a new pity for
                        the eager little child of years ago, who had wandered up to the garret, late
                        at night, to watch the moonlight spread its white shroud over the hills.
                    With every moment spent in the society of Valeria Du Prel, new and clearer
                        light seemed to Hadria, to be thrown upon all the problems of existence; not
                        by any means only through what Miss Du Prel
                        directly said, but by what she implied, by what she took for granted, by
                        what she omitted to say.
                    “It seems like a home-coming from long exile,” Hadria wrote to her sister. “I
                        have been looking through a sort of mist, or as one looks at one's
                        surroundings before quite waking. Now everything stands out sharp and cut,
                        as objects do in the clear air of the South. Ah me, the South! Miss Du Prel
                        has spent much of her life there, and my inborn smouldering passion for it,
                        is set flaming by her descriptions! You remember that brief little fortnight
                        that we spent with mother and father in Italy? I seem now to be again under
                        the spell of the languorous airs, the cloudless blue, the white palaces, the
                        grey olive groves, and the art, the art! Oh, Algitha, I must go to the South
                        soon, soon, or I shall die of home sickness! Miss Du Prel says that this is
                        only one side of me breaking out: that I am northern at heart. I think it is
                        true, but meanwhile the thought of the South possesses me. I confess I think
                        mother had some cause to be alarmed when she saw Miss Du Prel, if she wants
                        to keep us in a chastened mood, at home. It seems as if all of me were in
                        high carnival. Life is raised to a higher power. I feel nearly omnipotent.
                        Epics and operas are child's play to me! It is true I have produced
                        comparatively few; but, oh, those that are to come! I feel fit for anything,
                        from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter. I think of the two, I rather lean to
                        the manslaughter. Oh, I don't mean it in the facetious sense! that would be
                        a terrible downfall from my present altitudes. To such devices the usual
                        wretched girl, who has never drawn rebellious breath, or listened to the
                        discourses of Valeria Du Prel, has to turn for a living, or to keep ennui at bay. But I, no, the
                        inimical sex may possess their souls in peace, as far as I am concerned.
                        They might retort that they never had felt nervous, but a
                        letter has the same advantage as the pulpit: the adversary can never get up
                        and contradict.
                    “That ridiculous adversary, Harold Wilkins, is staying again at Drumgarren,
                        and I hear from Mrs. Gordon that he thinks
                        it very strange that I should see so much of so extraordinary a person as
                        Miss Du Prel! Opinions differ of course; I think it very strange that the
                        Gordons should see so much of so ordinary a person as Mr. Wilkins. Everybody
                        makes much of him here, and, alas! all the girls run after him, and even
                        fall in love with him; why, I can't conceive. For if driven by dire
                        compulsion of fate, to bend one's thoughts upon some prosaic
                        example of that prosaic sex, why not choose one of the many far more
                        attractive candidates available—the Gordons, the McKenzies, and so forth?
                        When I go to tennis parties with mother—they are still playing upon the
                        asphalte courts—and see the little dramas that go on, the jealousies and
                        excitements, and general much-ado-about-nothing, I can scarcely believe that
                        Miss Du Prel really belongs to the same planet as ours. But I don't feel so
                        contemptuous as I did; it is so pitiful. Out of my great wealth I can afford
                        to be more generous.
                    “And when I see those wretched girls fluttering round Mr. Wilkins, I no
                        longer turn up my ‘aughty nose’ (as old Mrs. Brooks used to say). I only
                        think to myself, ‘Heavens and earth! what an aching, empty life those young
                        women must lead, if they are actually reduced for interest and amusement to
                        the utterances of Mr. Wilkins!’ They would have the pull of one though, if
                        the utterances of Mr. Wilkins were the only utterances to be heard! Perish
                        the thought of such beggary!”
                    The talks with Valeria Du Prel grew more intimate, and more deeply
                        interesting to Hadria, every day.
                    Miss Du Prel used often to look at her companion in amazement. “Where
                            did you come from?” she exclaimed on one occasion. “One
                        would suppose you had lived several lives; you seem to know
                        things in such a subtle, intimate fashion!”
                    She used to ponder over the problem, wondering what Professor Fortescue would
                        say to it. There appeared to be more here than mere heredity could account
                        for. But science had never solved this problem; originality seemed always to
                        enter upon its career, uncaused and unaccountable. It was ever a miraculous
                        phenomenon. The Professor had always said
                        so. Still the heritage was rich enough, in this case. Heredity might have
                        some discoverable part in the apparent marvel. Each member of the Fullerton
                        family had unusual ability of some kind. Their knowledge of science, and
                        their familiarity with the problems of philosophy, had often astonished Miss
                        Du Prel. Hadria's accounts of the Preposterous Society made her laugh and
                        exclaim at the same moment. She gave an envious sigh at the picture of the
                        eager little group, with their warmth of affection for one another, and
                        their vivid interests. Miss Du Prel, with all her sadness, was youthful in
                        spirit. Hadria found her far younger than many girls of her own age. This
                        set her thinking. She observed how rigid most people become in a few years,
                        and how the personality grows wooden, in the daily repetition of the same
                        actions and the same ideas. This stiffening process had been attributed to
                        the malice of Time; but now Hadria began to believe that narrow and
                        ungenerous thought lay at the root of the calamity. The entire life of the
                        little world in which she had grown up, on all its sides, in all its ideals
                        and sentiments, stood before her, as if some great painter had made a
                        picture of it. She had never before been able to stand so completely apart
                        from the surroundings of her childhood. And she was able to do so now, not
                        because Miss Du Prel discoursed about it, but because Hadria's point of view
                        had shifted sympathetically to the point of view of her companion, through
                        the instinctive desire to see how these familiar things would look to alien
                        eyes. That which had seemed merely prosaic and dreary, became
                        characteristic; the very things which she had taken most for granted were
                        exactly those which turned out to be the significant and idiomatic
                        facts.
                    These had made permanent inroads into the mind and character. It was with
                        these that Hadria would have to reckon all her days, under whatever
                        conditions she might hereafter be placed. Daily surroundings were not merely
                        pleasant or unpleasant facts, otherwise of no importance; they were the very
                        material and substance of character; the push and impetus, or the let and
                        hindrance; the guardians or the assassins of the soul.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    MISS DU PREL had promised to allow Hadria to drive her to
                        Darachanarvan, a little town on the banks of the river, about seven miles
                        across country.
                    Hadria was in high spirits, as they trundled along the white roads with the
                        wind in their faces, the hills and the blue sky spread out before them, the
                        pleasant sound of the wheels and the trotting of the pony setting their
                        thoughts to rhythm.
                    The trees were all shedding their last yellow leaves, and the air was full of
                        those faded memories of better days, whirling in wild companies across the
                        road, rushing upward on the breast of some vagabond gust, drifting,
                        spinning, shuddering along the roadside, to lie there at last, quiet, among
                        a host of brothers, with little passing tremors, as if (said Valeria) they
                        were silently sobbing because of their banishment from their kingdom of the
                        air.
                    Miss Du Prel, though she enjoyed the beauty of the day and the scenery,
                        seemed sad of mood. “This weather recalls so many autumns,” she said. “It
                        reminds me too vividly of wonderful days, whose like I shall never see
                        again, and friends, many of whom are dead, and many lost sight of in this
                        inexorable coming and going of people and things, this inexorable change
                        that goes on for ever. I feel as if I should go mad at times, because it
                        will not stop, either in myself or others.”
                    “Ah, that is a dreadful thought!”
                    “It comes to me so insistently, perhaps, because of my roving life,” she
                        said.
                    She paused for a moment, and then she fell into one of her exalted moods, when she seemed to lose
                        consciousness of the ordinary conditions around her, or rather to pierce
                        deeper into their significance and beauty. Her speech would, at such times,
                        become rhythmic and picturesque; she evidently saw vivid images before her,
                        in which her ideas embodied themselves.
                    “Most people who live always in one place see the changes creeping on so
                        gradually that they scarcely feel them, but with me this universal flux
                        displays itself pitilessly, I cannot escape. Go where I will, there is
                        something to measure the changes by. A shoal of yellow leaves whispers to me
                        of seasons long ago, and the old past days, with their own intimate
                        character that nothing ever repeats, flash before me again with the
                        vividness of yesterday; and a flight of birds—ah! if I could express what
                        they recall! The dead years pass again in a great procession, a motley
                        company—some like emperors, crowned and richly dowered, with the sound of
                        trumpets and the tramping of many obsequious feet; and others like beggars,
                        despoiled and hungry, trudging along a dusty high road, or like grey
                        pilgrims bound, with bleeding feet, for a far-off shrine.”
                    They entered a little beech-wood, whose leaves made a light of their own,
                        strange and mystical.
                    “Yours must have been a wonderful life!” said Hadria.
                    “Yes, I have seen and felt many things,” answered Miss Du Prel, stirred by
                        the intoxication of the motion and the wind and the sunlight, “life has been
                        to me a series of intense emotions, as it will be to you, I fear—”
                    “You fear?” said Hadria.
                    “Yes; for that means suffering. If you feel, you are at the mercy of all
                        things. Every wind that blows uses you as an Æolian harp.”
                    “That must be charming, at least for those who live in your neighbourhood,”
                        said Hadria.
                    “No; for often the harp rings false. Its strings get loosened; one hangs
                        slack and jars, and where then is your harmony?”
                    
                    “One would run the risk of many things rather than let one's strings lie
                        dumb,” said Hadria.
                    “What a dangerous temperament you have!” cried Valeria, looking round at the
                        glowing face beside her.
                    “I must take my risks,” said Hadria.
                    “I doubt if you know what risks there are.”
                    “Then I must find out,” she answered.
                    “One plays with fire so recklessly before one has been burnt.”
                    Hadria was silent. The words sounded ominous.
                    “Will can do so much,” she said at length. “Do you believe in the power of
                        the human will to break the back of circumstance?”
                    “Oh, yes; but the effort expended in breaking its back sometimes leaves one
                        prone, with a victory that arrives ironically too late. However I don't wish
                        to discourage you. There is no doubt that human will has triumphed over
                        everything—but death.”
                    Again the sound of the pony's hoofs sounded through the silence, in a
                        cheerful trot upon the white roads. They were traversing an open, breezy
                        country, chequered with wooded hollows, where generally a village sought
                        shelter from the winds. And these patches of foliage were golden and red in
                        the meditative autumn sunshine, which seemed as if it were a little sad at
                        the thought of parting with the old earth for the coming winter.
                    “I think the impossible lesson to learn would be renouncement,” said Hadria.
                        “I cannot conceive how anyone could say to himself, while he had longings
                        and life still in him, ‘I will give up this that I might have learnt; I will
                        stop short here where I might press forward; I will allow this or that to
                        curtail me and rob me of my possible experience.’”
                    “Well, I confess that has been my feeling too, though I admire the spirit
                        that can renounce.”
                    “Admire? Oh, yes, perhaps; though I am not so sure that the submissive nature has not been too much
                        glorified—in theory. Nobody pays much attention to it in practice, by the
                        way.”
                    Miss Du Prel laughed. “What an observant young woman you are.”
                    “Renunciation is always preached to girls, you know,” said Hadria—“preached
                        to them when as yet they have nothing more than a rattle and a rag-doll to
                        renounce. And later, when they set about the business of their life, and
                        resign their liberty, their talents, their health, their opportunity, their
                        beauty (if they have it), then people gradually fall away from the despoiled
                        and obedient being, and flock round the still unchastened creature who
                        retains what the gods have given her, and asks for more.”
                    “I fear you are indeed a still unchastened creature!”
                    “Certainly; there is no encouragement to chasten oneself. People don't stand
                        by the docile members of Society. They commend their saints, but they drink
                        to their sinners.”
                    Miss Du Prel smiled.
                    “It is true,” she admitted. “A woman must not renounce too much if she
                        desires to retain her influence.”
                    “Pas trop de zèle,” Hadria quoted.
                    “There is something truly unmanageable about you, my dear!” cried Valeria,
                        much amused. “Well, I too have had just that sort of instinct, just that
                        imperious demand, just that impatience of restraint. I too regarded myself
                        and my powers as mine to use as I would, responsible only to my own
                        conscience. I decided to have freedom though the heavens should fall. I was
                        unfitted by temperament to face the world, but I was equally unfitted to pay
                        the price for protection—the blackmail that society levies on a woman:
                        surrender of body and of soul. What could one expect, in such a case, but
                        disaster? I often envy now the simple-minded woman who pays her price and
                        has her reward—such as it is.”
                    “Ah! such as it is!” echoed Hadria.
                    “Who was it said, the other day, that she thought a wise woman always took things as they were, and made
                        the best of them?”
                    “Some dull spirit.”
                    “And yet a practical spirit.”
                    “I am quite sure,” said Hadria, “that the stokers of hell are practical
                        spirits.”
                    “Your mother must have had her work cut out for her when she undertook to
                        bring you up,” exclaimed Miss Du Prel.
                    “So she always insinuates,” replied Hadria demurely.
                    They were spinning down hill now, into a warm bit of country watered by the
                        river, and Hadria drew rein. The spot was so pleasant that they alighted,
                        tied the pony to a tree, and wandered over the grass to the river's edge.
                        Hadria picked her way from stone to slippery stone, into the middle of the
                        river, where there was comparatively safe standing room. Here she was
                        suddenly inspired to execute the steps of a reel, while Valeria stood
                        dismayed on the bank, expecting every moment, to see the dance end in the
                        realms of the trout.
                    But Hadria kept her footing, and continued to step it with much solemnity.
                        Meanwhile, two young men on horseback were coming down the road; but as a
                        group of trees hid it from the river at this point, they were not noticed.
                        The horsemen stopped suddenly when they cleared the group of trees. The
                        figure of a young woman in mid-stream, dancing a reel with extreme energy
                        and correctness, and without a smile, was sufficiently surprising to arrest
                        them.
                    “As I thought,” exclaimed Hadria, “it is Harold Wilkins!”
                    “I shall be glad to see this conquering hero,” said Valeria.
                    Hadria, who had known the young man since her childhood, waited calmly as he
                        turned his horse's head towards the river, and advanced across the grass,
                        raising his hat. “Good morning, Miss Fullerton.”
                    “Good morning,” Hadria returned, from her rock.
                    “You seem to be having rather an agreeable time of it.”
                    “Very. Are you fond of dancing?”
                    
                    Mr. Wilkins was noted, far and wide, for his dancing, and the question was
                        wounding.
                    He was tall and loosely built, with brown expressionless eyes, dark hair, a
                        pink complexion, shelving forehead, and a weak yet obstinate mouth. His
                        companion also was tall and dark, but his face was pale, his forehead broad
                        and high, and a black moustache covered his upper lip. He had raised his hat
                        gracefully on finding that the dancer in mid-stream was an acquaintance of
                        his companion, and he shewed great self-possession in appearing to regard
                        the dancing of reels in these circumstances, as an incident that might
                        naturally be expected. Not a sign of surprise betrayed itself in the face,
                        not even a glimmer of curiosity. Hadria was so tickled by this finished
                        behaviour under difficulties, that she took her cue from it, and decided to
                        treat the matter in the same polished spirit. She too would take it all
                        decorously for granted.
                    Mr. Wilkins introduced his friend: Mr. Hubert Temperley. Hadria bowed
                        gracefully in reply to Mr. Temperley's salute.
                    “Don't you feel a little cramped out there?” asked Mr. Wilkins.
                    “Dear me, no,” cried Hadria in mock surprise. “What could induce you to
                        suppose I would come out here if I felt cramped?”
                    “Are you—are you thinking of coming on shore? Can I help you?”
                    “Thank you,” replied Hadria. “This is a merely temporary resting-place. We
                        ought to be getting on; we have some miles yet to drive,” and she hurried
                        her friend away. They were conducted to the pony-cart by the cavaliers, who
                        raised their hats, as the ladies drove off at a merry pace, bowing their
                        farewells.
                    “The eternal riddle!” Temperley exclaimed, as they turned the corner of the
                        road.
                    “What is the eternal riddle?” Harold Wilkins enquired.
                    “Woman, woman!” Temperley replied, a little impatiently. He had not found
                        young Wilkins quick to catch his meaning
                        during the two hours' ride, and it occurred to him that Miss Fullerton would
                        have been a more interesting companion.
                    He made a good many enquiries about her and her family, on the way back to
                        Drumgarren.
                    “We are inviited to tennis at their house, for next Tuesday,” said Harold,
                        “so you will have a chance of pursuing the acquaintance. For my part, I
                        don't admire that sort of girl.”
                    “Don't you? I am attracted by originality. I like a woman to have something
                        in her.”
                    “Depends on what it is. I hate a girl to have a lot of silly ideas.”
                    “Perhaps you prefer her to have but one,” said Temperley, “that one being
                        that Mr. Harold Wilkins is a charming fellow.”
                    “Nothing of the kind,” cried Harold. “I can't help it if girls run after me;
                        it's a great bore.”
                    Temperley laughed. “You, like Achilles, are pursued by ten thousand girls. I
                        deeply sympathize, though it is not an inconvenience that has troubled me,
                        even in my palmiest days.”
                    “Why, how old are you? Surely you are not going to talk as if those days were
                        over?”
                    “Oh, I am moderately palmly still!” Temperley admitted. “Still, the hour
                        approaches when the assaults of time will become more disastrous.”
                    “You and Hadria Fullerton ought to get on well together, for she is very
                        musical,” said Harold Wilkins.
                    “Ah!” cried Temperley with new interest. “I could have almost told that from
                        her face. Does she play well?”
                    “Well, I suppose so. She plays things without any tune that bore one to
                        death, but I daresay you would admire it. She composes too, I am told.”
                    “Really? Dear me, I must make a point of having a talk with her, on the
                        earliest opportunity.”
                    Meanwhile, the occupants of the pony-cart had arrived at Darachanarvan, where they were to put up the pony
                        and have luncheon. It was a prosaic little Scottish town, with only a
                        beautiful survival, here and there, from the past.
                    After luncheon, they wandered down to the banks of the river, and watched the
                        trout and the running water. Hadria had long been wishing to find out what
                        her oracle thought about certain burning questions on which the sisters held
                        such strong, and such unpopular sentiments, but just because the feeling was
                        so keen, it was difficult to broach the subject.
                    An opportunity came when Miss Du Prel spoke of her past. Hadria was able to
                        read between the lines. When a mere girl, Miss Du Prel had been thrown on
                        the world—brilliant, handsome, impulsive, generous—to pass through a fiery
                        ordeal, and to emerge with aspirations as high as ever, but with her radiant
                        hopes burnt out. But she did not dwell on this side of the picture; she
                        emphasized rather, the possibility of holding on through storm and stress to
                        the truth that is born in one; to belief in “the noblest and wildest hopes
                        (if you like to call them so) that ever thrilled generous hearts.”
                    But she gave no encouragement to certain of her companion's most vehement
                        sentiments. She seemed to yearn for exactly that side of life from which the
                        younger shrank with so much horror. She saw it under an entirely different
                        aspect. Hadria felt thrown back on herself, lonely once more.
                    “You have seen Mrs. Gordon,” she said at length, “what do you think of
                        her?”
                    “Nothing; she does not inspire thought.”
                    “Yet once she was a person, not a thing.”
                    “,If a woman can't keep her head above water in Mrs. Gordon's position, she
                        must be a feeble sort of person.”
                    “I should not dare to say that, until I had been put through the mill myself,
                        and come out unpulverised.”
                    Miss Du Prel failed to see what there was so very dreadful in Mrs. Gordon's
                        lot. She had, perhaps, rather more children than was necessary, but
                        otherwise—
                    
                    “Oh, Miss Du Prel,” cried Hadria, “you might be a mere man! That is just what
                        my brothers say.”
                    “I don't understand what you mean,” said Miss Du Prel. “Do explain.”
                    “Do you actually—you of all people—not recognize and hate the
                        idea that lies so obviously at the root of all the life that is swarming
                        round us—?”
                    Valeria studied her companion's excited face.
                    “Are you in revolt against the very basis of existence?” she asked
                        curiously.
                    “No: at least ... but this is not what I am driving at exactly,” replied
                        Hadria, turning uneasily away from the close scrutiny. “Don't you know—oh,
                        don't you see—how many women secretly hate, and shrink from this brutal
                        domestic idea that fashions their fate for them?”
                    Miss Du Prel's interest quickened.
                    “Nothing strikes me so much as the tamely acquiescent spirit of the average
                        woman, and I doubt if you would find another woman in England to describe
                        the domestic existence as you do.”
                    “Perhaps not; tradition prevents them from using bad language, but they
                            feel, they feel.”
                    “Young girls perhaps, brought up very ignorantly, find life a little scaring
                        at first, but they soon settle down into happy wives and mothers.”
                    “As the fibre grows coarser,” assented Hadria.
                    “No; as the affections awaken, and the instincts that hold society together,
                        come into play. I have revolted myself from the conditions of life, but it
                        is a hopeless business—beating one's wings against the bars.”
                    “The bars are, half of them, of human construction,” said Hadria, “and
                        against those one may surely be allowed to beat.”
                    “Of human construction?”
                    “I mean that prejudice, rather than instinct, has built up the system that
                        Mrs. Gordon so amiably represents.”
                    “Prejudice has perhaps taken advantage of instinct to establish a somewhat tyrannical tradition,” Miss
                        Du Prel admitted, “but instinct is at the bottom of it. There is, of course,
                        in our society, no latitude for variety of type; that is the fault of so
                        many institutions.”
                    “The ordinary domestic idea may have been suitable when women were emerging
                        from the condition of simple animals,” said Hadria, “but now it seems to me
                        to be out of date.”
                    “It can never be entirely out of date, dear Hadria. Nature has asked of women
                        a great and hard service, but she has given them the maternal instinct and
                        its joys, in compensation for the burden of this task, which would otherwise
                        be intolerable and impossible. It can only be undertaken at the instigation
                        of some stupendous impetus, that blinds the victim to the nature of her
                        mission. It must be a sort of obsession; an intense personal instinct,
                        amounting to madness. Nature, being determined to be well served in this
                        direction, has supplied the necessary monomania, and the domestic idea, as
                        you call it, grows up round this central fact.”
                    Hadria moved restlessly to and fro by the river bank. “One presumes to look
                        upon oneself, at first—in one's earliest youth,” she said, “as undoubtedly
                        human, with human needs and rights and dignities. But this turns out to be
                        an illusion. It is as an animal that one has to play the really
                        important part in life; it is by submitting to the demands of society, in
                        this respect, that one wins rewards and commendation. Of course, if one
                        likes to throw in a few ornamental extras, so much the better; it keeps up
                        appearances and the aspect of refined sentiment—but the main point—”
                    “You are extravagant!” cried Miss Du Prel. “That is not the
                        right way to look at it.”
                    “It is certainly not the convenient way to look at it. It is doubtless wise
                        to weave as many garlands as you can, to deck yourself for the sacrifice. By
                        that means, you don't quite see which way you are going, because of the
                        masses of elegant vegetation.”
                    “Ah! Hadria, you exaggerate, you distort; you forget so many things—the sentiments, the affections, the
                        thousand details that hallow that crude foundation which you see only bare
                        and unsoftened.”
                    “A repulsive object tastefully decorated, is to me only the more repulsive,”
                        returned Hadria, with suppressed passion.
                    “There will come a day when you will feel very differently,” prophesied Miss
                        Du Prel.
                    “Perhaps. Why should I, more than the others, remain uninfluenced by the
                        usual processes of blunting, and grinding down, and stupefying, till one
                        grows accustomed to one's function, one's intolerable
                        function?”
                    “My dear, my dear!”
                    “I am sorry if I shock you, but that is how I feel. I have seen this sort of
                        traditional existence and nothing else, all my life, and I have been brought
                        up to it, with the rest—prepared and decked out like some animal for
                        market—all in the most refined and graceful manner possible; but how can one
                        help seeing through the disguise; how can one be blind to the real nature of
                        the transaction, and to the fate that awaits one—awaits one as inexorably as
                        death, unless by some force of one's own, with all the world—friends and
                        enemies—in opposition, one can avert it?”
                    Miss Du Prel remained silent.
                    “You can avert it,” she said at last; “but at what cost?”
                    “Miss Du Prel, I would rather sweep a crossing, I would rather beg in the
                        streets, than submit to the indignity of such a life!”
                    “Then what do you intend to do instead?”
                    “Ah! there's the difficulty. What can one do instead, without
                        breaking somebody's heart? Nothing, except breaking one's own. And even
                        putting that difficulty aside, it seems as if everyone's hand were against a
                        woman who refuses the path that has been marked out for her.”
                    “No, no, it is not so bad as that. There are many openings now for
                        women.”
                    “But,” said Hadria, “as far as I can gather, ordinary ability is not sufficient to enable them to make
                        a scanty living. The talent that would take a man to the top of the tree is
                        required to keep a woman in a meagre supply of bread and butter.”
                    “Allowing for exaggeration, that is more or less the case,” Miss Du Prel
                        admitted.
                    “I have revolted against the common lot,” she went on after a pause, “and you
                        see what comes of it; I am alone in the world. One does not think of that
                        when one is quite young.”
                    “Would you rather be in Mrs. Gordon's position than in your own?”
                    “I doubt not that she is happier.”
                    “But would you change with her, surrendering all that she has
                        surrendered?”
                    “Yes, if I were of her temperament.”
                    “Ah! you always evade the question. Remaining yourself, would you change with
                        her?”
                    “I would never have allowed my life to grow like hers.”
                    “No,” said Hadria, laughing, “you would probably have run away or killed
                        yourself or somebody, long before this.”
                    Miss Du Prel could not honestly deny this possibility. After a pause she
                        said:
                    “A woman cannot afford to despise the dictates of Nature. She may escape
                        certain troubles in that way; but Nature is not to be cheated, she makes her
                        victim pay her debt in another fashion. There is no escape. The centuries
                        are behind one, with all their weight of heredity and habit; the order of
                        society adds its pressure—one's own emotional needs. Ah, no! it does not
                        answer to pit oneself against one's race, to bid defiance to the fundamental
                        laws of life.”
                    “Such then are the alternatives,” said Hadria, moving close to the river's
                        brink, and casting two big stones into the current. “There stand the devil
                        and the deep sea.”
                    “You are too young to have come to that sad conclusion,” said Miss Du
                        Prel.
                    “But I haven't,” cried Hadria. “I still believe in revolt.”
                    
                    The other shook her head.
                    “And what about love? Are you going through life without the one thing that
                        makes it bearable?
                    “I would not purchase it at such a cost. If I can't have it without
                        despoiling myself of everything that is worth possessing, I prefer to go
                        without.”
                    “You don't know what you say!” exclaimed Miss Du Prel.
                    “But why? Love would be ruined and desecrated. I understand by it a sympathy
                        so perfect, and a reverence so complete, that the conditions of ordinary
                        domestic existence would be impossible, unthinkable, in connection with
                        it.”
                    “So do I understand love. But it comes, perhaps, once in a century, and if
                        one is too fastidious, it passes by and leaves one forlorn: at best, it
                        comes only to open the gates of Paradise, for a moment, and to close them
                        again, and leave one in outer darkness.”
                    “Always?”
                    “I believe always,” answered Miss Du Prel.
                    The running of the river sounded peacefully in the pause that followed.
                    “Well,” cried Hadria at length, raising her head with a long sigh, “one
                        cannot do better than follow one's own instinct and thought of the moment.
                        Regret may come, do what one may. One cannot escape from one's own
                        temperament.”
                    “One can modify it.”
                    “I cannot even wish to modify mine, so that I should become amenable to these
                        social demands. I stand in hopeless opposition to the scheme of life that I
                        have grown up amongst, to the universal scheme of life indeed, as understood
                        by the world up to this day. Audacious, is it not?”
                    “I like audacity,” returned Miss Du Prel. “As I understand you, you require
                        an altogether new dispensation!”
                    Hadria gave a half smile, conscious of her stupendous demand. Then she said,
                        with a peculiar movement of the head, as if throwing off a heavy weight, and
                        looking before her steadily: “Yes, I require a new dispensation.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    HUBERT TEMPERLEY made a point of going to the tennis-party, on
                        Tuesday, at Dunaghee, in order to talk to Miss Fullerton. He had not
                        expected to find original musical talent in this out-of-the-way place.
                    Hadria was in a happy mood, for her mother had so far overcome her prejudice
                        against Miss Du Prel, as to ask her to join the party.
                    The festivity had, therefore, lost its usual quality of melancholy.
                    It was a warm afternoon, and every one seemed cheerful “and almost
                        intelligent,” Hadria commented. The first words that Mr. Temperley uttered,
                        made her turn to him, in surprise. She was so unaccustomed to be interested
                        in what the people about here had to say. Even intelligent visitors usually
                        adopted the tone of the inhabitants. Hubert Temperley's manner was very
                        polished. His accent denoted mental cultivation. He spoke with eloquence of
                        literature, and praised enthusiastically most great names dating securely
                        from the hallowed past. Of modern literature he was a stern critic; of music
                        he spoke with ardour.
                    “I hear that you not only perform but compose, Miss Fullerton,” he said. “As
                        soon as I heard that, I felt that I must make your acquaintance. My friends,
                        the Gordons, are very charming, but they don't understand a note of music,
                        and I am badly off for a kindred spirit.”
                    “My composing is a very mild affair,” Hadria answered. “I suppose you are
                        more fortunate.”
                    “Not much. I am pretty busy you see. I have my 
                            pro-
                            profession
                         fession. I play a good deal—the
                        piano and the 'cello are my instruments.
                        But my difficulty is to find someone to accompany me. My sister does when
                        she can, but of course with a house and family to look after—I am sometimes
                        selfish enough to wish she had not married. We used to be such good
                        friends.”
                    “Is that all over?”
                    “It is different. She always manages to be busy now,” said Temperley in a
                        slightly ironical tone.
                    He plunged once more, into a musical discussion.
                    Hadria had reluctantly to cut it short, in order to arrange tennis-matches.
                        This task was performed as usual, somewhat recklessly. Polite and amiable in
                        indiscriminate fashion, Hadria ignored the secret jealousies and
                        heart-burnings of the neighbourhood, only to recognise and repent her
                        mistakes when too late. To-day she was even more unchastened than usual in
                        her dealings with inflammable social material.
                    “Hadria!” cried Mrs. Fullerton, taking her aside, “How could you
                        ask Cecilia Gordon to play with young McKenzie? You know their
                        families are not on speaking terms!”
                    Everyone, except the culprit, had remarked the haughty manner in which
                        Cecilia wielded her racket, and the gloomy silence in which the set was
                        played.
                    Hadria, though not impenitent, laughed. “How does Miss Gordon manage to be
                        energetic and chilling at the same time!” she exclaimed.
                    The Gordons and the McKenzies, like hostile armies, looked on grimly.
                        Everyone felt awkward, and to feel awkward was nothing less than tragic, in
                        the eyes of the assembly.
                    “Oh, Hadria, how could you?” cried Mrs. Gordon, coming up in her
                        elaborate toilette, which expressed almost as much of the character of its
                        wearer as was indicated by her thin, chattering tones, and unreposeful
                        manner. Her mode of dress was rich and florid—very obvious in its effects,
                        very naïf. She was built on a large scale,
                        and might have been graceful, had not her
                        mental constitution refused to permit, or to inspire, that which physical
                        construction seemed to intend. She distributed smiles on all hands, of no
                        particular meaning. Though still a young woman, she looked worn and wearied.
                        However, her rôle was cheerfulness, and
                        she smiled on industriously.
                    “I am so sorry,” said Hadria, “the quarrel went clean out of my head. They
                        are so well matched. But your sister-in-law will never forgive me.”
                    “Oh, well, never mind, my dear; it is your way, I know. Only of course it is
                        awkward.”
                    “What can be done? Shall I run in and separate them?”
                    “Oh, Hadria, you are ridiculous!”
                    “I was not meant for society,” she said, in a depressed tone.
                    “Oh, you will soon get into the way of it,” cried Mrs. Gordon
                        encouragingly.
                    “I am afraid I shall.”
                    Mrs. Gordon stared. “Mr. Temperley, I can never make out what Miss Fullerton
                        really means. Do see if you can.”
                    “How could I expect to succeed where you have failed?”
                    “Oh, you men are so much cleverer than we poor women,” cried the lady archly.
                        Temperley was obviously of the same opinion. But he found some appropriate
                        Chesterfieldian reply, while Hadria, to his annoyance, hurried off to her
                        duties, full of good resolutions.
                    Having introduced a couple of sisters to their brother, she grew desperate. A
                        set had just ended, and the sisters were asked to play. This time, no
                        mistake had been made in the selection of partners, so far as the question
                        of sentiment was concerned, but they were fatally ill-assorted as to
                        strength. However, Hadria said with a sigh, if their emotions were
                        satisfied, it was really all they could expect. Considering the number of
                        family feuds, she did not see her way to arranging both points, to
                        everyone's satisfaction.
                    Hadria was surrounded by a small group, among whom were Temperley, Harold Wilkins, and Mr.
                        Hawkesley, the brother who had been introduced to his sisters.
                    “How very handsome Hadria is looking this afternoon,” said Mrs. Gordon, “and
                        how becoming that dark green gown is.”
                    Mrs. Fullerton smiled. “Yes, she does look her best to-day. I think she has
                        been improving, of late, in her looks.”
                    “That's just what we have all noticed. There is so much animation in her
                        face; she is such a sweet girl.”
                    Miss Du Prel, who was not of the stuff that martyrs are made of, muttered
                        something incoherent and deserted her neighbour. She came up to the group
                        that had gathered round Hadria.
                    “Ah, Miss Du Prel,” cried the latter, “I am so glad to see you at large
                        again. I was afraid you were getting bored.”
                    “I was,” said Miss Du Prel frankly, “so I came away.”
                    The young men laughed. “If only everybody could go away when he was bored,”
                        cried Hadria, “how peaceful it would be, and what small tennis-parties one
                        would have!”
                    “Always excepting tennis-parties at this house,” said Hubert
                        Temperley.
                    “I don't think any house would survive,” said Miss Du Prel. “If people do not
                        meet to exchange ideas, I can't see the object of their meeting at all.”
                    “What a revolutionary sentiment!” cried Temperley, laughing. “Where would
                        society be, on that principle?”
                    Hadria was called away, at that moment, and the group politely wavered
                        between duty and inclination. Temperley and Miss Du Prel strolled off
                        together, his vast height bent deferentially towards her. This air of
                        deference proved somewhat superficial. Miss Du Prel found that his opinions
                        were of an immovable order, with very defined edges. In some indescribable
                        fashion, those opinions partook of the general elegance of his being. Not
                        for worlds would he have harboured an exaggerated or immoderate idea. In
                        politics he was conservative, but he did not abuse his opponents. He smiled
                        at them: he saw no reason for supposing that they did not mean quite as well as he did, possibly
                        better. What he did see reason to doubt, was their judgment.
                        His tolerance was urbane and superior. On all questions, however, whether he
                        knew much about them or little, his judgment was final and absolute. He
                        swept away whole systems of thought that had shaken the world, with a
                        confident phrase. Miss Du Prel looked at him with increasing amazement. He
                        seemed unaccustomed to opposition.
                    “A vast deal of nonsense is talked in the name of philosophy,” he observed,
                        in a tone of gay self-confidence peculiar to him, and more indicative of
                        character than even what he said. “People seem to think that they have only
                        to quote Spencer or Huxley, or take an interest in heredity, to justify
                        themselves in throwing off all the trammels, as they would regard them, of
                        duty and common sense.”
                    “I have not observed that tendency,” said Miss Du Prel.
                    “Really. I regret to say that I notice everywhere a disposition to evade
                        responsibilities which, in former days, would have been honestly and
                        contentedly accepted.”
                    “Our standards are all changing,” said Miss Du Prel. “It does not follow that
                        they are changing for the worse.”
                    “It seems to me that they are not so much changing, as disappearing
                        altogether,” said Temperley cheerfully, “especially among women. We hear a
                        great deal about rights, but we hear nothing about duties.”
                    “We are perhaps, a little tired of hearing about duties,” said Miss Du
                        Prel.
                    “You admit then what I say,” he returned placidly. “Every woman wants to be
                        Mary, and no one will be Martha.”
                    “I make just the opposite complaint,” cried Miss Du Prel.
                    “Dear me, quite a different way of looking at it. I confess I have scant
                        patience with these interfering women, who want to turn everything upside
                        down, instead of quietly minding their duties at home.”
                    “I know it is difficult to make people understand,” said Miss Du Prel, with
                        malice.
                    
                    “I should esteem it a favour to be enlightened,” returned Temperley.
                    “You were just now condemning socialism, Mr. Temperley, because you say that
                        it attempts to ignore the principle of the division of labour. Now, when you
                        lose patience with the few women who are refusing to be Marthas, you ignore
                        that principle yourself. You want all women to do exactly the same sort of
                        work, irrespective of their ability or their bent of mind. May I ask
                        why?”
                    “Because I consider that is the kind of work for which they are best fitted,”
                        replied Temperley serenely.
                    “Then you are to be judge and jury in the case;
                            your opinion, not theirs, is to decide the matter.
                        Supposing I were to take upon myself to judge what
                            you were best fitted for, and were to claim, therefore, to
                        decide for you what sort of life you should live, and what sort of work you
                        should undertake—?”
                    “I should feel every confidence in resigning myself to your able judgment,”
                        said Temperley, with a low bow. Miss Du Prel laughed.
                    “Ah,” she said, “you are at present, on the conquering side, and can afford
                        to jest on the subject.”
                    “It is no joke to jest with an able woman,” he returned.
                        “Seriously, I have considerable sympathy with your view, and no wish to
                        treat it flippantly. But if I am to treat it seriously, I must admit frankly
                        that I think you forget that, after all, Nature has something
                        to say in this matter.”
                    Engrossed in their conversation, they had, without thinking what they were
                        doing, passed through the open gate at the end of the avenue, and walked on
                        along the high road.
                    Swarms of small birds flew out of the hedges, with a whirring sound, to
                        settle further on, while an incessant chatter was kept up on each side.
                    “I often think that modern women might take example from these little
                        creatures,” said Temperley, who, in common with many self-sufficient
                        persons, was fond of recommending humility to others. “They
                        never attempt to shirk their lowly tasks on
                        the plea of higher vocations. Not one turns from the path marked out by our
                        great Mother, who also teaches her human children the same lesson of patient
                        duty; but, alas! by them is less faithfully obeyed.”
                    “If our great Mother wanted instinct she should not have bestowed reason,”
                        said Miss Du Prel impatiently.
                    Temperley had fallen into the dulcet strains of one who feels, not only that
                        he stands as the champion of true wisdom and virtue, but that he is sure of
                        support from the vast majority of his fellows. Miss Du Prel's brusqueness
                        seemed to suit her less admirable rôle.
                    Temperley was tolerant and regretful. If Miss Du Prel would think for a
                        moment, she could not fail to see that Nature ... and so forth, in the same
                        strain of “pious devotion to other people's duties” as his companion
                        afterwards described it. She chafed at the exhortation to “think for a
                        moment.”
                    At that instant, the solitude was broken by the apparition of a dusty
                        wayfarer in knickerbockers and soft felt hat, coming towards them up the
                        road. He was a man of middle height and rather slim. He appeared about
                        five-and-thirty years of age. He had fair hair, and a strange, whimsical
                        face, irregular of feature, with a small moustache covering the upper
                        lip.
                    Miss Du Prel looked startled, as she caught sight of the travel-stained
                        figure. She flushed deeply, and her expression changed to one of
                        bewilderment and uncertainty, then to one of incredulous joy. She hastened
                        forward, at length, and arrested the wayfarer.
                    “Professor Fortescue, don't you remember me?” she cried excitedly.
                    He gazed at her for a second, and then a look of amazement came into his kind
                        eyes, as he held out his hand.
                    “Miss Du Prel! This is incredible!”
                    They stood, with hand locked in hand, staring at one another. “By what happy
                        misunderstanding am I thus favoured by the gods?” exclaimed the
                        Professor.
                    
                    Miss Du Prel explained her presence.
                    “Prodigious!” cried Professor Fortescue. “Fate must have some strange plots
                        in the making, unless indeed we fall to the discouraging supposition that
                        she deigns to jest.”
                    He said that he was on a walking tour, studying the geology of the district,
                        and that he had written to announce his coming to his old friends, Mr. and
                        Mrs. Fullerton, and to ask them to put him up. He supposed that they were
                        expecting him.
                    Miss Du Prel was greatly excited. It was so long since they had met, and it
                        was so delightful to meet again. She had a hundred enquiries to make about
                        common friends, and about the Professor's own doings.
                    She forgot Temperley's name, and her introduction was vague. The Professor
                        held out his hand cordially. Temperley was not allowed to feel an intrusive
                        third. This was in consequence of the new-comer's kindliness of manner, and
                        not at all because of Miss Du Prel, who had forgotten Temperley's elegant
                        existence. She had a look of surprise when he joined in the
                        conversation.
                    “I can scarcely believe that it is ten years since I was here,” cried the
                        Professor, pausing to look over a gate at the stretch of country.
                    “I used to visit my friends at Dunaghee every autumn, and now if some one
                        were to assure me that I had been to sleep and dreamt a ten years' dream, I
                        should be disposed to credit it. Every detail the same; the very cattle, the
                        very birds—surely just those identical sparrows used to fly before me along
                        the hedgerows, in the good old times, ten years ago! Ah! yes, it is only the
                        human element that changes.”
                    “One is often so thankful for a change in that,” Temperley remarked, with an
                        urbane sort of cynicism.
                    “True,” said Miss Du Prel; “but what is so discouraging is that so often the
                        charm goes, like the bloom of a peach, and only the qualities that one
                        regrets remain and prosper.”
                    
                    “I think people improve with time, as often as they fall off,” said the
                        Professor.
                    The others shook their heads.
                    “To him that hath shall be given, but to him that hath not—” The Professor
                        smiled a little sadly, in quoting the significant words. “Well, well,” he
                        said, turning to Miss Du Prel, “I can't say how happy I am to see you again.
                        I have not yet got over my surprise. And so you have made the acquaintance
                        of the family at Dunaghee. I have the warmest respect and affection for
                        those dear folks. Mrs. Fullerton has the qualities of a heroine, kind
                        hostess as she is! And of what fine Scottish stuff the old man is made—and a
                        mind like crystal! What arguments we used to have in that old study of his!
                        I can see him now. And how genial! A man could never forget it, who had once
                        received his welcome.”
                    Such was Miss Du Prel's impression, when ten minutes later the meeting took
                        place between the Professor and his old friend.
                    It would indeed have been hard to be anything but genial to the Professor.
                        Hadria remembered him and his kindness to her and the rest of the children,
                        in the old days; the stories he used to tell when he took them for walks,
                        stories full of natural lore more marvellous than any fairy tale, though he
                        could tell fairy tales too, by the dozen. He had seemed to them like some
                        wonderful and benevolent magician, and they adored him, one and all. And
                        what friends he used to be with Ruffian, the brown retriever, and with every
                        living creature on the place!
                    The tennis-party began to break up, shortly after the Professor's arrival.
                        Temperley lingered to the last.
                    “Is that a son of the celebrated Judge Temperley?” asked one of the
                        bystanders.
                    “His eldest son,” answered Mr. Gordon; “a man who ought to make his mark, for
                        he has splendid chances and good ability.”
                    
                    “I have scarcely had a word with you, the whole afternoon,” Temperley said to
                        Hadria, who had sunk upon a seat, tired with making herself agreeable, as
                        she observed.
                    “That is very sad; but when one has social gatherings, one never does have a
                        word with anybody. I think that must be the object of them—to accustom
                        people to do without human sympathy.”
                    Temperley tried to start a conversation, taking a place beside her, on the
                        seat, and setting himself to draw her out. It was obvious that he found her
                        interesting, either as a study or in a less impersonal sense. Hadria,
                        feeling that her character was being analysed, did what many people do
                        without realizing it: she instinctively arranged its lights and shades with
                        a view to artistic effect. It was not till late that night, when the events
                        of the day passed before her in procession, that she recognized what she had
                        done, and laughed at herself. She had not attempted to appear in a better
                        light than she deserved; quite as often as not, she submitted to appear in a
                        worse light; her effort had been to satisfy some innate sense of proportion
                        or form. The instinct puzzled her.
                    Also she became aware that she was interested in Hubert Temperley. Or was it
                        that she was interested in his interest in her? She could not be certain.
                        She thought it was direct interest. She felt eager to know more of him;
                        above all, to hear him play.
                    On returning to the house, after Temperley had, at last, felt compelled to
                        depart, Hadria found her father and mother and their guest, gathered
                        together before the cheery fire in the study. Hearing his daughter's step,
                        her father opened the door and called her in. Till now, the Professor had
                        not seen her, having been hurried into the house, to change his clothes and
                        have something to eat.
                    As she entered, rather shyly, he rose and gave a gasp of astonishment.
                    “You mean to tell me that this is the little girl who used to take me for walks, and who had such an inordinate
                        appetite for stories! Good heavens, it is incredible!”
                    He held out a thin, finely-formed hand, with a kind smile.
                    “They change so much at that age, in a short time,” said Mrs. Fullerton, with
                        a glance of pride; for her daughter was looking brilliantly handsome, as she
                        stood before them, with flushed cheeks and a soft expression, which the mere
                        tones of the Professor's voice had power to summon in most human faces. He
                        looked at her thoughtfully, and then rousing himself, he brought up a chair
                        for her, and the group settled again before the fire.
                    “Do you know,” said the Professor, “I was turning into a French sweet-shop
                        the other day, to buy my usual tribute for the children, when I suddenly
                        remembered that they would no longer be children, and had to march out
                        again, crestfallen, musing on the march of time and the mutability of things
                        human—especially children.”
                    “It's ridiculous,” cried Mr. Fullerton. “I am always lecturing them about it,
                        but they go on growing just the same.”
                    “And how they make you feel an old fogey before you know where you are! And I
                        thought I was quite a gay young fellow, upon my word!”
                    “You, my dear Chantrey! why you'd be a gay young fellow at ninety!” said Mr.
                        Fullerton.
                    The Professor laughed and shook his head.
                    “And so this is really my little playfellow!” he exclaimed, nodding
                        meditatively. “I remember her so well; a queer, fantastic little being in
                        those days, with hair like a black cloud, and eyes that seemed to peer out
                        of the cloud, with a perfect passion of enquiry. She used to bewilder me, I
                        remember, with her strange, wise little sayings! I always prophesied great
                        things from her! Ernest, too, I remember: a fine little chap with curly,
                        dark hair—rather like a young Italian, but with features less broadly cast;
                        drawn together and calmed by his northern blood. Yes, yes; it seems but yesterday,” he said, with a smile and a
                        sigh; “and now my little Italian is at college, with a bored manner and a
                        high collar.”
                    “Oh, no; Ernest's a dear boy still,” cried Hadria. “Oxford hasn't spoilt him
                        a bit. I do wish he was at home for you to see him.”
                    “Ah! you mustn't hint at anything against Ernest in Hadria's presence!” cried
                        Mr. Fullerton, with an approving laugh.
                    “Not for the world!” rejoined the Professor. “I was only recalling one or two
                        of my young Oxford acquaintances. I might have known that a Fullerton had
                        too much stuff in him to make an idiot of himself in that way.”
                    “The boy has distinguished himself too,” said Mr. Fullerton.
                    “Everyone says he will do splendidly,” added the mother; “and you can't think
                        how modest he is about himself, and how anxious to do well, and to please us
                        by his success.”
                    “Ah! that's good.”
                    The Professor was full of sympathy. Hadria was astonished to see how animated
                        her mother had become under his influence.
                    They fell again to recalling old times; little trivial incidents which had
                        seemed so unimportant at the moment, but now carried a whole epoch with
                        them, bringing back, with a rush, the genial memories. Hadria remembered
                        that soon after his last visit, the Professor had married a beautiful wife,
                        and that about a year or so later, the wife had died. It was said that she
                        had killed herself. This set Hadria speculating.
                    The visitor reminded his companions of various absurd incidents of the past,
                        sending Mr. Fullerton into paroxysms of laughter that made the whole party
                        laugh in sympathy. Mrs. Fullerton too was already wiping her streaming eyes
                        as the Professor talked on in his old vein, with just that particular little
                        humorous manner of his that won its way so surely to the hearts of his
                        listeners. For a moment, in the midst of the bright talk and the mirth that
                        he had created, the Professor lost the
                        thread, and his face, as he stared into the glowing centre of the fire, had
                        a desolate look; but it was so quick to pass away that one might have
                        thought oneself the victim of a fancy. His was the next chuckle, and “Do you
                        remember that day when—?” and so forth, Mr. Fullerton's healthy roar
                        following avalanche-like, upon the reminiscence.
                    “We thought him a good and kind magician when we were children,” was Hadria's
                        thought, “and now one is grown up, there is no disillusion. He is a good and
                        kind magician still.”
                    He seemed indeed to have the power to conjure forth from their hiding-places,
                        the finer qualities of mind and temperament, which had lain dormant, perhaps
                        for years, buried beneath daily accumulations of little cares and little
                        habits. The creature that had once looked forth on the world, fresh and
                        vital, was summoned again, to his own surprise, with all his ancient
                        laughter and his tears.
                    “This man,” Hadria said to herself, drawing a long, relieved breath, “is the
                        best and the most generous human being I have ever met.”
                    She went to sleep, that night, with a sweet sense of rest and security, and
                        an undefined new hope. If such natures were in existence, then there must be
                        a great source of goodness and tenderness somewhere in heaven or earth, and
                        the battle of life must be worth the fighting.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    THE Professor's presence in the house had a profound influence on
                        the inmates, one and all. The effect upon his hostess was startling. He drew
                        forth her intellect, her sense of humour, her starved poetic sense; he
                        probed down among the dust and rust of years, and rescued triumphantly the
                        real woman, who was being stifled to death, with her own connivance.
                    Hadria was amazed to see how the new-comer might express any idea he pleased,
                        however heterodox, and her mother only applauded.
                    His manner to her was exquisitely courteous. He seemed to understand all that
                        she had lost in her life, all its disappointments and sacrifices.
                    On hearing that Miss Du Prel was among the Professor's oldest friends, Mrs.
                        Fullerton became suddenly cordial to that lady, and could not show her
                        enough attention. The evenings were often spent in music, Temperley being
                        sometimes of the party. He was the only person not obviously among the
                        Professor's admirers.
                    “However cultivated or charming a person may be,” Temperley said to Hadria,
                        “I never feel that I have found a kindred spirit, unless the musical
                        instinct is strong.”
                    “Nor I.”
                    “Professor Fortescue has just that one weak point.”
                    “Oh, but he is musical, though his technical knowledge is small.”
                    But Temperley smiled dubiously.
                    The Professor, freed from his customary hard work, was like a schoolboy. His
                        delight in the open air, in the freshness of the hills, in the peace of the mellow autumn, was never-ending.
                    He loved to take a walk before breakfast, so as to enjoy the first sweetness
                        of the morning; to bathe in some clear pool of the river to come into
                        healthy contact with Nature. Never was there a brighter or a wholesomer
                        spirit. Yet the more Hadria studied this clear, and vigorous, and tender
                        nature, the more she felt, in him, the absence of that particular personal
                        hold on life which so few human beings are without, a grip usually so hard
                        to loosten, that only the severest experience, and the deepest sorrow have
                        power to destroy it.
                    Hadria's letters to her sister, at this time, were full of enthusiasm. “You
                        cannot imagine what it is, or perhaps you can imagine what it
                        is to have the society of three such people as I now see almost every
                        day.
                    “You say I represent them as impossible angels, such as earth never beheld,
                        but you are wrong. I represent them as they are. I suppose the Professor has
                        faults—though he does not show them to us—they must be of the generous kind,
                        at any rate. Father says that he never could keep a farthing; he would
                        always give it away to undeserving people. Miss Du Prel, I find on closer
                        acquaintance, is not without certain jealousies and weaknesses, but these
                        things just seem to float about as gossamer on a mountain-side, and one
                        counts them in relation to herself, in about the same proportion. Mr.
                        Temperley—I don't know quite what to say about him. He is a tiny bit too
                        precise and finished perhaps—a little wanting in élan—but he seems very enlightened and full of polite
                        information; and ah, his music! When he is playing I am completely carried
                        away. If he said then, ‘Miss Fullerton, may I have the pleasure of your
                        society in the infernal regions?’ I should arise and take his arm and reply,
                        ‘Delighted,’ and off we would march. But what am I saying? Mr. Temperley
                        would never ask anything so absurd.
                    “You would have thought that when Miss Du Prel and Professor Fortescue arrived on the scene, I had
                        about enough privileges; but no, Destiny, waking up at last to her duties,
                        remembers that I have a maniacal passion for music, and that this has been
                        starved. So she hastens to provide for me a fellow maniac, a brother in
                        Beethoven, who comes and fills my world with music and my soul with— But I
                        must not rave. The music is still in my veins; I am not in a fit state to
                        write reasonable letters. Here comes Mr. Temperley for our practice. No more
                        for the present.”
                    Temperley would often talk to Hadria of his early life, and about his mother
                        and sister. Of his mother he spoke with great respect and affection, the
                        respect perhaps somewhat conventional, and allowing one to see, through its
                        meshes, the simple fact that she was looked up to as a good and dutiful
                        parent, who had worshipped her son from his birth, and perfectly fulfilled
                        his ideas of feminine excellency. From her he had learnt the lesser
                        Catechism and the Lord's Prayer, since discarded, but useful in their proper
                        season. Although he had ceased to be an orthodox Christian, he felt that he
                        was the better for having been trained in that creed. He had a perfect faith
                        in the system which had produced himself.
                    “I think you would like my mother,” said Temperley.
                    Hadria could scarcely dispute this.
                    “And I am sure she would like you.”
                    “On that point I cannot offer an opinion.”
                    “Don't you ever come to town?” he asked.
                    “We go to Edinburgh occasionally,” she replied with malice, knowing that he
                        meant London.
                    He set her right.
                    “No; my father hates London, and mother never goes away without him.”
                    “What a pity! But do you never visit friends in town?”
                    “Yes; my sister and I have spent one or two seasons in Park Lane, with some
                        cousins.”
                    “Why, don't you come this next season? You ought to hear some good
                        music.”
                    
                    The tête-a-tête was interrupted by the
                        Professor. Temperley looked annoyed. It struck Hadria that Professor
                        Fortescue had a very sad expression when he was not speaking. He seemed to
                        her lonely, and in need of the sort of comfort that he brought so liberally
                        to others.
                    Although he had talked to Hadria about a thousand topics in which they were
                        both interested, there had been nothing personal in their conversation. He
                        was disposed, at times, to treat her in a spirit of affectionate banter.
                    “To think that I should ever have dared to offer this young lady acidulated
                        drops!” he exclaimed on one occasion, when Hadria was looking flushed and
                        perturbed.
                    “Ah! shall I ever forget those acidulated drops!” she cried, brightening.
                    “You don't mean to say that you would stoop to them now?”
                    “It is not one's oldest friends who always know one best,” she replied
                        demurely.
                    “I shall test you,” he said.
                    And on that same day, he walked into Ballochcoil, and when he returned, he
                        offered her, with a solemn twinkle in his eye, a good-sized paper bag of the
                        seductive sweetmeat; taking up his position on the top of a low dyke, and
                        watching her, while she proceeded to make of that plump white bag, a lank
                        and emaciated bag, surprising to behold. He sat and looked on, enjoying his
                        idleness with the zest of a hard worker. The twinkle of amusement faded
                        gradually from his face, and the sadness that Hadria had noticed the day
                        before, returned to his eyes. She was leaning against the dyke, pensively
                        enjoying her festive meal. The dark fresh blue of her gown, and the unwonted
                        tinge of colour in her cheeks, gave a vigorous and healthful impression, in
                        harmony with the weather-beaten stones and the windy breadth of the northern
                        landscape.
                    The Professor studied the face with a puzzled frown. He flattered himself
                        that he was a subtle physiognomist, but in
                        this case, he would not have dared to pronounce judgment. Danger and
                        difficulty might have been predicted, for it was a moving face, one that
                        could not be looked upon quite coldly. And the Professor had come to the
                        conclusion, from his experience of life, that the instinct of the average
                        human being whom another has stirred to strong emotion, is to fasten upon
                        and overwhelm that luckless person, to burden him with responsibilities, to
                        claim as much of time, and energy, and existence, as can in any way be wrung
                        from him, careless of the cost to the giver.
                    Professor Fortescue noticed, as Hadria looked down, a peculiar dreaminess of
                        expression, and something indefinable, which suggested a profoundly
                        emotional nature. At present, the expression was softened. That this
                        softness was not altogether trustworthy, however, the Professor felt sure,
                        for he had seen, at moments, when something had deeply stirred her,
                        expressions anything but soft come into her face. He thought her capable of
                        many things of which the well-brought-up young Englishwoman is not supposed
                        to dream. It seemed to him, that she had at least two distinct natures that
                        were at war with one another: the one greedy and pleasure-loving, careless
                        and even reckless; the other deep-seeing and aspiring. But which of these
                        two tendencies would experience probably foster?
                    “I wonder what you like best, next to acidulated drops,” he said at length,
                        with one of his half-bantering smiles.
                    “There are few things in this wide world that can be mentioned in the same
                        breath with them, but toffy also has its potency upon the spirit.”
                    “I like not this mocking tone.”
                    “Then I will not mock,” she said.
                    “Yes, Hadria,” he went on meditatively, “you have grown up, if an old friend
                        may make such remarks, very much as I expected, from the promise of your
                        childhood. You used to puzzle me even then.”
                    “Do I puzzle you now?” she asked.
                    
                    “Inexpressibly!”
                    “How amusing! But how?”
                    “One can generally see at a glance, or pretty soon, the general trend of a
                        character. But not with you. Nothing that I might hear of you in the future,
                        would very much surprise me. I should say to myself, ‘Yes, the germ was
                        there.’”
                    Hadria paled a little. “Either good or bad you mean?”
                    “Well—”
                    “Yes, I understand.” She drew herself together, crossing her arms, and
                        looking over the hills, with eyes that burned with a sort of fear and
                        defiance mingled. It was a singular expression, which the Professor noted
                        with a sense of discomfort.
                    Hadria slowly withdrew her eyes from the horizon, and bent them on the
                        ground.
                    “You must have read some of my thoughts,” she said. “I often wonder how it
                        is, that the world can drill women into goodness at all.” She raised her
                        head, and went on in a low, bitter tone: “I often wonder why it is, that
                        they don't, one and all, fling up their rôles and revenge themselves to the best of their
                        ability—intentionally, I mean—upon the world that makes them live under a
                        permanent insult. I think, at times, that I should thoroughly enjoy spending
                        my life in sheer, unmitigated vengeance, and if I did”—she clenched her
                        hands, and her eyes blazed—“if I did, I would not do my work by halves!”
                    “I am sure you would not,” said the Professor dryly.
                    “But I shall not do anything of the kind,” she added in a different tone;
                        “women don't. They always try to be good, always, always—the
                        more fools they! And the more they are good, the worse things get.”
                    “Ah! I thought there was some heterodox sentiment lurking here at high
                        pressure!” exclaimed the Professor.
                    Hadria sighed. “I have just been receiving good advice from Mrs. Gordon,” she
                        said, flushing at the remembrance, “and I think if you knew the sort of
                        counsel it was, that you would understand one's feeling a little fierce and
                        bitter. Oh, not with her, poor woman! She
                        meant it in kindness. But the most cutting thing of all is, that what she
                        said is true!”
                    “That is exactly the worst thing,” said the Professor, who
                        seemed to have divined the nature of Mrs. Gordon's advice.
                    Hadria coloured. It hurt as well as astonished her, that he should guess what
                        had been said.
                    “Ah! a woman ought to be born without pride, or not at all! I wish to heaven
                        that our fatal sex could be utterly stamped out!”
                    The Professor smiled, a little sadly, at her vehemence.
                    “We are accused of being at the bottom of every evil under heaven,” she
                        added, “and I think it is true. That is some consolation, at
                        any rate!”
                    In spite of her immense reverence for the Professor, she seemed to have grown
                        reckless as to his opinion.
                    The next few days went strangely, and not altogether comprehensibly. There
                        was a silent warfare between Professor Fortescue and Hubert Temperley.
                    “I have never in my life before ventured to interfere in such matters,” the
                        Professor said to Miss Du Prel; “but if that fellow marries Hadria, one or
                        both will live to rue it.”
                    “I think it's the best thing that could happen to her,” Miss Du Prel
                        declared.
                    “But they are not suited to one another,” said the Professor.
                    “Men and women seldom are!”
                    “Then why —?” the Professor began.
                    “He is about as near as she will get,” Valeria interrupted. “I will never
                        stand in the way of a girl's marrying a good, honest man. There is not one
                        chance in ten thousand that Hadria will happen to meet exactly the right
                        person. I have made a mistake in my life. I shall do all in my power to urge
                        her to avoid following in my footsteps.”
                    It was useless for the Professor to remonstrate.
                    “I pity Mr. Temperley, though I am so fond of Hadria,” said Miss Du Prel. “If
                        he shatters her illusions, she will certainly shatter
                            his.”
                    
                    The event that they had been expecting, took place. During one of the
                        afternoon practices, when, for a few minutes, Mrs. Fullerton had left the
                        room, Temperley startled Hadria by an extremely elegant proposal of
                        marriage. He did not seem surprised at her refusal, though he pleaded his
                        cause with no little eloquence. Hadria found it a painful ordeal. She shrank
                        from the ungracious necessity to disappoint what appeared to be a very
                        ardent hope. Happily, the interview was cut short by the entrance of Mr.
                        Fullerton. The old man was not remarkable for finesse. He gave a dismayed “Oh!” He coughed, suppressed a
                        smile, and murmuring some lame enquiry as to the progress of the music,
                        turned and marched out of the room. The sound of laughter was presently
                        heard from the dining-room below.
                    “Father is really too absurd!” cried Hadria, “there is no tragedy that he is
                        incapable of roaring at!”
                    “I fear his daughter takes after him,” said Temperley with a tragi-comic
                        smile.
                    When Hadria next met her father, he asked, with perfect but suspicious
                        gravity, about the music that they had been practising that afternoon. He
                        could not speak too highly of music as a pastime. He regretted having rushed
                        in as he did—it must have been so disturbing to the music. Why not have a
                        notice put up outside the door on these occasions: “Engaged”? Then the
                        meanest intelligence would understand, and the meanest intelligence was
                        really a thing one had to count with, in this blundering world!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    HUBERT TEMPERLEY left Drumgarren suddenly. He said that he had
                        business to attend to in town.
                    “That foolish girl has refused him!” exclaimed Valeria, when she heard of
                        it.
                    “Thank heaven!” ejaculated Professor Fortescue.
                    Valeria's brow clouded. “Why are you so anxious about the matter?”
                    “Because I know that a marriage between those two would end in misery.”
                    Valeria spoke very seriously to Hadria on the subject of marriage, urging the
                        importance of it, and the wretchedness of growing old in solitude.
                    “Better even that, than to grow old in uncongenial company,” said Hadria.
                    Valeria shrugged her shoulders. “One could go away when it became
                        oppressive,” she suggested, at which Hadria laughed.
                    “What an ideal existence!”
                    “Are you still dreaming of an ideal existence?”
                    “Why not?”
                    “Well, dream while you may,” said Miss Du Prel. “My time of dreaming was the
                        happiest of all.”
                    On one occasion, when Hadria and the Professor went to call at Craw Gill,
                        they found Miss Du Prel in the gloomiest of moods. Affection, love?—the very
                        blood and bones of tragedy. Solitude, indifference?—its heart. And if for
                        men the world was a delusion, for women it was a torture-chamber. Nature was
                        dead against them.
                    “Why do you say that?” asked Hadria.
                    
                    “Because of the blundering, merciless way she has made us; because of the
                        needs that she has put into our hearts, and the preposterous payment that
                        she demands for their fulfilment; because of the equally preposterous
                        payment she exacts, if we elect to do without that which she teaches us to
                        yearn for.”
                    Professor Fortescue, admitting the dilemma, laid the blame on the stupidity
                        of mankind.
                    The discussion was excited, for Valeria would not allow the guilt to be thus
                        shifted. In vain the Professor urged that Nature offers a large choice to
                        humanity, for the developing, balancing, annulling of its various forces of
                        good and evil, and that it is only when the choice is made that heredity
                        steps in and fixes it. This process simulates Necessity, or what we call
                        Nature. “Heredity may be a powerful friend, or a bitter enemy, according as
                        we treat her,” he said.
                    “Then our sex must have treated her very badly!” cried Miss Du Prel.
                    “Or our sex must have obliged yours to treat her badly, which
                        comes to the same thing,” said the Professor.
                    They had agreed to take a walk by the river, towards Ballochcoil. It was
                        hoped that the fresh air and sunshine would cheer Miss Du Prel. The
                        Professor led the conversation to her favourite topic: ancient Greek
                        literature, but this only inspired her to quote the discouraging opinion of
                        the Medea of Euripedes.
                    The Professor laughed. “I see it is a really bad attack,” he said. “I
                        sympathize. I have these inconsolable moods myself, sometimes.”
                    They came upon the Greek temple on the cliff-side, and paused there to rest,
                        for a few minutes. It was too cold to linger long under the slender columns.
                        They walked on, till they came in sight of the bare little church of
                        Ballochcoil.
                    The Professor instinctively turned to compare the two buildings. “The
                        contrast between them is so extraordinary,” he exclaimed.
                    
                    Nothing could have been more eloquent of the difference in the modes of
                        thought which they respectively represented.
                    “If only, they had not made such fools of their women, I should like to have
                        lived at Athens in the time of Pericles!” exclaimed Hadria.
                    “I,” said Valeria, “would choose rather the Middle Ages, with their mysticism
                        and their romance.”
                    The discussion on this point continued till the church was reached. A psalm
                        was being sung, in a harsh but devout fashion, by the congregation. The
                        sound managed to find its way to the sweet outer air, though the ugly
                        rectangular windows were all jealously closed against its beneficence.
                    The sky had become overcast, and a few drops of rain having given warning of
                        a shower, it was thought advisable to take shelter in the porch, till it was
                        over. The psalm was ground out slowly, and with apparent fervour, to the
                        end.
                    Then the voice of the minister was heard wrestling in prayer.
                    The Professor looked grave and sad, as he stood listening. It was possible to
                        hear almost all the prayer through the red baize door, and the words,
                        hackneyed though they were, and almost absurd in their pious sing-song, had
                        a naïf impressiveness and, to the listener, an intense pathos.
                    The minister prayed for help and comfort for his congregation. There had been
                        much sickness in the village during the summer, and many were in trouble.
                        The good man put forth his petition to the merciful and mighty Father, that
                        strength might be given to the sufferers to bear all that was sent in
                        chastisement, for they knew that nothing would be given beyond their ability
                        to endure. He assured the great and mighty Lord that He had power to
                        succour, and that His love was without end; he prayed that as His might and
                        His glory were limitless, so might His mercy be to the miserable sinners who
                        had offended Him.
                    Age after age, this same prayer, in different forms, had besieged the throne
                        of heaven. Age after age, the spirit of man
                        had sought for help, and mercy, and inspiration, in the Power that was felt,
                        or imagined, behind the veil of mystery.
                    From the village at the foot of the hill, vague sounds floated up, and
                        presently, among them and above them, could be heard the yelping and howling
                        of a dog.
                    The minister, at the moment, was glorifying his Creator and his race at the
                        same time, by addressing Him as “Thou who hast given unto us, Thy servants,
                        dominion over the beasts of the field and over every living thing, that they
                        may serve us and minister unto us—rdquo;
                    Again, and more loudly, came the cry of distress.
                    “I must go and see what is the matter,” exclaimed the Professor. At the
                        moment, the howling suddenly ceased, and he paused. The minister was still
                        appealing to his God for mercy. “Out of the deep have I cried unto Thee, O
                        Lord —,” and then there was a general prayer, in which the voices of the
                        congregation joined. Some more singing and praying took place, before the
                        sound of a sudden rush and movement announced the conclusion of the
                        service.
                    “We had better go,” said Miss Du Prel.
                    They had no more than time to leave the porch, before the doors burst open,
                        and the people streamed forth. A whiff of evil-smelling air issued from the
                        building, at the same time. The dog was howling more piteously than ever.
                        Someone complained of the disturbance that had been caused by the creature's
                        cries, during worship. The congregation continued to pour out, dividing into
                        little groups to discuss the sermon or something of more mundane interest.
                        An appearance of superhuman respectability pervaded the whole body. The
                        important people, some of whom had their carriages waiting to drive them
                        home, lingered a few moments, to exchange greetings, and to discuss sporting
                        prospects or achievements. Meanwhile, one of the creatures over whom God had
                        given them dominion, was wailing in vain appeal.
                    “I can't stand this,” cried the Professor, and he started off.
                    “I will come too,” Hadria announced. Miss Du Prel said that she could not endure the sight of suffering,
                        and would await their return.
                    And then occurred the incident that made this afternoon memorable to Hadria.
                        In her last letter to her sister, she had said that she could not imagine
                        the Professor contemptuous or angry. She had reason now to change her mind.
                        His face was at once scornful and sad. For a moment, Hadria thought that he
                        was displeased with her.
                    “I sometimes feel,” he said, with a scornful bitterness that she had not
                        suspected in him, “I sometimes feel that this precious humanity of ours that
                        we are eternally worshipping and exalting, is but a mean, miserable thing,
                        after all, not worth a moment's care or effort. One's sympathy is wasted.
                        Look at these good people whining to their heavenly Father about their own
                        hurts, craving for a pity of which they have not a spark themselves!—puffed
                        up with their little lordship over the poor beasts that they do not hesitate
                        to tear, and hurt, and torture, for their own pleasure, or their own
                        benefit,—to whom they, in their turn, love to play the God. Cowards! And
                        having used their Godhead for purposes of cruelty, they fling themselves
                        howling on their knees before their Almighty Deity and beg for mercy, which
                        He too knows how to refuse!”
                    “Thank heaven!” exclaimed Hadria. She drew a deep sigh of relief. Without
                        precisely realizing the fact, she had been gradually sinking into an
                        unformulated conviction that human beings are, at heart, ruthless and hard,
                        as soon as they are brought beyond the range of familiar moral claims, which
                        have to be respected on pain of popular censure. Self-initiated pity was
                        nowhere to be found. The merciless coldness of many excellent people (kind
                        and tender, perhaps, within these accepted limits) had often chilled her to
                        the heart, and prompted a miserable doubt of the eventual victory of good
                        over evil in the world, which her father always insisted was ruled by mere
                        brute force, and would be so ruled to the end of time. She had tried to find
                        a wider, more generous, and less
                        conventional standard in her oracle, Miss Du Prel, but to her bitter
                        disappointment, that lady had shrugged her shoulders a little callously, as
                        soon as she was asked to extend her sympathy outside the circle of chartered
                        candidates for her merciful consideration. Hadria's hero-worship had
                        suffered a severe rebuff. Now, as the Professor spoke, it was as if a voice
                        from heaven had bidden her believe and hope fearlessly in her race, and in
                        its destiny.
                    “I had almost come to shrink a little from people,” she said, “as from
                        something cruel and savage, at heart, without a grain of real, untaught
                        pity.”
                    “There is only just enough to swear by,” said the Professor sadly. “We are a
                        lot of half-tamed savages, after all, but we may be thankful that a capacity
                        for almost infinite development is within us.”
                    “I wish to heaven we could get on a little faster,” exclaimed Hadria.
                    The incident proved, in the end, a fortunate one for the homeless, and almost
                        starving terrier, of plebeian lineage, whose wail of distress had summoned
                        two friends to the rescue. The creature had been ill-treated by some boys,
                        who found Sunday afternoon hang heavy on their hands. The Professor carried
                        the injured animal across the fields and through the woods, to Dunaghee.
                    Here the wounds were dressed, and here the grateful creature found a new and
                        blissful home. His devotion to the Professor was unbounded; he followed him
                        everywhere.
                    Hadria's reverence and admiration rose to the highest pitch of enthusiasm.
                        Her father laughed at her. “Just as if any decent fellow would not have done
                        as much for a wounded brute!”
                    “There must have been a strange dearth of decent fellows in church that
                        morning then.”
                    It was not merely the action, but the feeling revealed by the Professor's
                        words on that occasion, that had turned Hadria's sentiment towards him, into
                        one of worship.
                    
                    Algitha warned her that even the Professor was human.
                    Hadria said she did not believe it, or rather she believed that he was
                        inordinately, tenderly, superlatively human, and that he had gone many steps
                        farther in that direction than the rest of his generation. He was dowered
                        with instincts and perceptions belonging to some kinder, nobler race than
                        ours.
                    Miss Du Prel looked grave. She took occasion to mention that the Professor
                        had never ceased to grieve for his wife, to whom he had been passionately
                        attached, and that he, almost alone among men, would never love any other
                        woman.
                    “I admire him only the more for that,” said Hadria.
                    “Don't let yourself care too much for him.”
                    “Too much!”
                    “Don't fall in love with him, if I must be frank.”
                    Hadria was silent. “If one were to fall in love at all, I don't
                        see how it would be possible to avoid his being the man,” she pronounced at
                        last. “I defy any creature with the least vestige of a heart to remain
                        indifferent to him.” (Valeria coloured.) “Why there isn't a man, woman,
                        child, or animal about the place who doesn't adore him and what can
                            I do?”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    THE autumn was now on the wane; the robins sang clear, wild little
                        songs in the shrubberies, the sunshine fell slanting across the grass. And
                        at night, the stars twinkled with a frosty brilliancy, and the flowers were
                        cut down by cruel invisible hands. The long dark evenings and the shrieking
                        winds of winter were before them.
                    With the shortening of the days, and the sweeping away of great shoals of
                        leaves, in the frequent gales, Miss Du Prel's mood grew more and more
                        sombre. At last she announced that she could stand the gloom of this wild
                        North no longer. She had made arrangements to return to London, on the
                        morrow. As suddenly as she had appeared on the scene, she vanished, leaving
                        but one day to grieve at the prospect of parting.
                    It was through an accidental turn in the conversation, on this last day, that
                        the difference between her creed and the Professor's was brought to light,
                        accounting to Hadria for many things, and increasing, if possible, her
                        admiration for the unconscious Professor.
                    As for her own private and personal justification for hope, Valeria asserted
                        that she had none. Not even the thought of her work—usually a talisman
                        against depression—had any power to comfort. Who cared for her work, unless
                        she perjured herself, and told the lies that the public loved to hear?
                    “What should we all do,” asked Hadria, “if there were not a few people like
                        you and Professor Fortescue, in the world, to keep us true to our best
                        selves, and to point to something infinitely better than that best?”
                    Miss Du Prel brightened for a moment.
                    “What does it matter if you do not provide mental food for the crowd, seeking nourishment for their
                        vulgarity? Let them go starve.”
                    “But they don't; they go and gorge elsewhere. Besides, the question of
                        starvation faces me rather than them.”
                    Miss Du Prel was still disposed to find fault with the general scheme of
                        things, which she regarded as responsible for her own woes, great and
                        little. Survival of the fittest! What was that but another name for the
                        torture and massacre of the unfit? Nature's favourite instruments were war,
                        slaughter, famine, misery (mental and physical), sacrifice and brutality in
                        every form, with a special malignity in her treatment of the most highly
                        developed and the noblest of the race.
                    The Professor in vain pointed out that Valeria's own revolt against the
                        brutality of Nature, was proof of some higher law in Nature, now in course
                        of development.
                    “The horror that is inspired in human beings by that brutality is just as
                        much a part of Nature as the brutality itself,” he said, and he insisted
                        that the supreme business of man, was to evolve a scheme of life on a higher
                        plane, wherein the weak shall not be forced to agonize for the strong, so
                        far as mankind can intervene to prevent it. Let man follow the dictates of
                        pity and generosity in his own soul. They would never lead him astray. While
                        Miss Du Prel laid the whole blame upon natural law, the Professor impeached
                        humanity. Men, he declared, cry out against the order of things, which they,
                        in a large measure, have themselves created.
                    “But, good heavens! the whole plan of life is one of rapine. We
                        did not fashion the spider to prey upon the fly, or the cat to play with the
                        wounded mouse. We did not ordain that the strong should fall
                        upon the weak, and tear and torture them for their own benefit. Surely we
                        are not responsible for the brutalities of the animal creation.”
                    “No, but we are responsible when we imitate them,” said the
                        Professor.
                    Miss Du Prel somewhat inconsequently attempted to defend such imitation, on
                        the ground that sacrifice is a law of life, a law of which she had just been bitterly
                        complaining. But at this, the Professor would only laugh. His opponent
                        indignantly cited scientific authority of the most solemn and weighty kind;
                        the Professor shook his head. Familiarity with weighty scientific
                        authorities had bred contempt.
                    “Vicarious sacrifice!” he exclaimed, with a sudden outbreak of the scorn and
                        impatience that Hadria had seen in him on one other occasion, “I never heard
                        a doctrine more insane, more immoral, or more suicidal!”
                    Miss Du Prel hugged herself in the thought of her long list of scouted
                        authorities. They had assured her that our care of the weak, by interfering
                        with the survival of the fittest, is injuring the race.
                    “Go down into the slums of our great cities, or to the pestilential East, and
                        there observe the survival of the fittest, undisturbed by human knowledge or
                        human pity,” recommended the Professor.
                    Miss Du Prel failed to see how this proved anything more than bad general
                        conditions.
                    “It proves that however bad general conditions may be, some
                        wretches will always survive; the ‘fittest,’ of course, to endure filth and
                        misery. Selection goes on without ceasing; but if the conditions are bad,
                        the surviving type will be miserable. Mere unaided natural selection
                        obviously cannot be trusted to produce a fine race.”
                    Nothing would convince Miss Du Prel that the preservation of weakly persons
                        was not injurious to the community. To this the Professor replied, that what
                        is lost by their salvation is more than paid back by the better conditions
                        that secured it. The strong, he said, were strengthened and enabled to
                        retain their strength by that which saves the lives of the weak.
                    “Besides, do you suppose a race could gain, in the long run, by defiance of
                        its best instincts? Never! If the laws of health in body and in mind were at
                        variance, leaving us a hard choice between physical and moral disease, then
                        indeed no despair could be too black. But all experience and all insight
                        testify to the exact opposite. Heavens,
                        how short-sighted people are! It is not the protection of the weak, but the
                        evil and stupid deeds that have made them so, that we have to thank for the
                        miseries of disease. And for our redemption—powers of the universe! it is
                        not to the cowardly sacrifice of the unfortunate that we must trust, but to
                        a more brotherly spirit of loyalty, a more generous treatment of all who are
                        defenceless, a more faithful holding together among ourselves—weak and
                        strong, favoured and luckless.”
                    Miss Du Prel was silent for a moment. Her sympathy but not her hope had been
                        roused.
                    “I wish I could believe in your scheme of redemption,” she said; “but, alas!
                        sacrifice has been the means of progress from the beginning of all things,
                        and so I fear it will be to the end.”
                    “I don't know what it will be at the end,” said the Professor, dryly; “for
                        the present, I oppose with the whole strength of my belief and my
                        conscience, the cowardly idea of surrendering individuals to the ferocity of
                        a jealous and angry power, in the hope of currying favour for the rest. We
                        might just as well set up national altars and sacrifice victims, after the
                        franker fashion of the ancients. Morally, the principles are precisely the
                        same.”
                    “Scarcely; for our object is to benefit humanity.”
                    “And theirs. Poor humanity!” cried the Professor. “What crimes are we not
                        ready to commit in thy name!”
                    “That cannot be a crime which benefits mankind,” argued Miss Du Prel.
                    “It is very certain that it cannot eventually benefit mankind, if it
                            be a crime,” he retorted.
                    “This sequence of ideas makes one dizzy!” exclaimed Hadria.
                    The Professor smiled. “Moreover,” he added, “we know that society has formed
                        the conditions of existence for each of her members; the whole material of
                        his misfortune, if he be ill-born and ill-conditioned. Is society then to
                        turn and rend her unlucky child whose
                        misery was her own birthday gift? Shall we, who are only too ready, as it
                        is, to trample upon others, in our haste and greed—shall we be encouraged in
                        this savage selfishness by what dares to call itself science, to play one
                        another false, instead of standing, with united front, to the powers of
                        darkness, and scorning to betray our fellows, human or animal, in the
                        contemptible hope of gaining by the treachery? Ah! you may quote
                        authorities, wise and good, till you are hoarse!” cried the Professor, with
                        a burst of energy; “but they will not convince me that black is white. I
                        care not who may uphold the doctrine of vicarious sacrifice; it is
                        monstrous, it is dastardly, it is damnable!”
                    There are some sentences and some incidents that fix themselves, once for
                        all, in the memory, often without apparent reason, to remain as an influence
                        throughout life. In this fashion, the afternoon's discussion registered
                        itself in the memory of the silent member of the trio.
                    In her dreams that night, those three concluding and energetic adjectives
                        played strange pranks, as, in dreams, words and phrases often will. Her deep
                        regret at Miss Du Prel's departure, her dread of her own future, her growing
                        sense of the torment, and horror, and sacrifice that form so large a part of
                        the order of the world, all appeared to be united fantastically in malignant
                        and threatening form, in the final words of the Professor: “It is monstrous,
                        it is dastardly, it is damnable!” The agony of the whole earth seemed to
                        hang over the sleeper, hovering and black and intolerable, crushing her with
                        a sense of hopeless pity and fatigue.
                    And on waking, though the absurd masquerading of words and thoughts had
                        ceased, she was still weighed down with the horror of the dream, which she
                        knew had a corresponding reality still more awful. And there was no
                        adversary to all this anguish; everybody acquiesced, nay, everybody threw on
                        yet another log to the martyr's pile, and coolly watched the hungry flames
                        at their work, for “Nature,” they all agreed, demanded sacrifice.
                    
                    It was in vain to turn for relief to the wise and good; the “wise” insisted
                        on keeping up the altar fires that they might appease the blood-thirsty
                        goddess by a continuous supply of victims (for the noble purpose of saving
                        the others); the “good” trusted to the decision of the wise; they were
                        humbly content to allow others to judge for them for by this means would
                        they not secure some of the spoils?
                    No, no; there was no help anywhere on earth, no help, no help. So ran
                        Hadria's thoughts, in the moments of vivid sensation, between sleeping and
                        waking. “Suffering, sacrifice, oppression: there is nothing else under the
                        sun, under the sun.”
                    Perhaps a brilliant beam that had found its way, like a message of mercy,
                        through the blind, and shone straight on to the pillow, had suggested the
                        form of the last thought.
                    Hadria moved her hand into the ray, that she might feel the warmth and “the
                        illusion of kindness.”
                    There was one person, and at the moment, only one, whose existence was
                        comforting to remember. The hundreds of kind and good people, who were
                        merely kind and good where popular sentiment expected or commended such
                        conduct, gave no re-assurance; on the contrary, they proved the desperation
                        of our plight, since wisdom and goodness themselves were busy at the savage
                        work.
                    When the party met at breakfast, an hour later, the Professor caused
                        universal consternation, by announcing that he would be obliged to return to
                        London on that very day, having received a letter, by the morning's post,
                        which left him no choice. The very butler paused, for a perceptible period,
                        while handing ham and eggs to the guest. Forks and knives were laid down;
                        letters remained unopened.
                    “It's no use your attempting to go, my dear Chantrey,” said Mr. Fullerton,
                        “we have grown accustomed to the luxury of your society, and we can't get on
                        without it.”
                    But the Professor explained that his departure was inevitable, and that he
                        must go by the morning train.
                    
                    He and Hadria had time for a short walk to the river, by the pathway of the
                        tunnels.
                    “What are your plans for the winter?” the Professor asked. “I hope that you
                        will find time to develop your musical gift. It ought to be used and not
                        wasted, or worse than wasted, as all forces are, unless they find their
                        legitimate outlet. Don't be persuaded to do fancy embroidery, as a better
                        mode of employing energy. You have peculiar advantages of a hereditary kind,
                        if only you can get a reasonable chance to use them. I have unbounded faith
                        in the Fullerton stock. It has all the elements that ought to produce powers
                        of the highest order. You know I have always cherished a warm affection for
                        your parents, but ten years more of experience have taught me better how to
                        value that sterling sincerity and honour in your father, united with so much
                        kindliness, not to mention his qualities of brain; and then your mother's
                        strong sense of duty, her ability, her native love of art, and her wonderful
                        devotion. These are qualities that one does not meet with every day, and the
                        children of such parents start in life with splendid material to fashion
                        into character and power.”
                    “Algitha will be worthy of our parents, I think,” said Hadria, “though she
                        has commenced her career by disobeying them.”
                    “And you too must turn your power to account.”
                    “You can't conceive how difficult it is.”
                    “I can very easily. I see that the sacrifice of her own development, which
                        your mother has made for your sakes, is taking its inevitable revenge upon
                        her, and upon you all. One can't doom one's best powers to decay, however
                        excellent the motive, without bringing punishment upon oneself and one's
                        children, in some form or other. You will have to fight against that
                        penalty. I know you will not have a smooth time of it; but who has, except
                        cowards and weakliings? Your safeguard will be in your work.”
                    “And my difficulty,” said Hadria. “In the world that I was born into (for my sins), when one tries to do
                        something that other people don't do, it is like trying to get up early in a
                        house where the breakfast-hour is late. Nothing fits in with one's eccentric
                        custom; everything conspires to discourage it.”
                    “I wish I could give you a helping hand,” said the Professor wistfully; “but
                        one is so powerless. Each of us has to fight the real battle of life alone.
                        Nobody can see with our eyes, or feel with our nerves. The crux of the
                        difficulty each bears for himself. But friendship can help us to believe the
                        struggle worth while; it can sustain our courage and it can offer sympathy
                        in victory,—but still more faithfully in defeat.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    HADRIA had determined upon making a strong and patient effort to
                        pursue her work during the winter, while doing her best, at the same time,
                        to please her mother, and to make up to her, as well as she could, for
                        Algitha's departure. She would not be dismayed by difficulties: as the
                        Professor said, only cowards and weaklings escaped these. She treated
                        herself austerely, and found her power of concentration increasing, and her
                        hold on herself greater. But, as usual, her greatest effort had to be given,
                        not to the work itself, but to win opportunity to pursue it. Mrs. Fullerton
                        opposed her daughter's endeavours as firmly as ever. It was not good for a
                        girl to be selfishly pre-occupied. She ought to think of others.
                    If Hadria yielded the point on any particular occasion, her mood and her work
                        were destroyed: if she resisted, they were equally destroyed, through the
                        nervous disturbance and the intense depression which followed the winning of
                        a liberty too dearly bought. The incessant rising and quelling of her
                        impulse and her courage—like the ebb and flow of tides—represented a vast
                        amount of force not merely wasted, but expended in producing a dangerous
                        wear and tear upon the system. The process told upon her health, and was the
                        beginning of the weakening and unbalancing of the splendid constitution
                        which Hadria, in common with every member of the family, enjoyed as a
                        birthright. The injury was insidious but serious. Hadria, unable to command
                        any certain part of the day, began to sit up at night. This led to a direct
                        clash of wills. Mr. Fullerton said that the girl was doing her best to ruin her health for life; Mrs.
                        Fullerton wished to know why Hadria, who had all the day at her disposal,
                        could not spend the night rationally.
                    “But I haven't all the day, or any part of it, for certain,” said Hadria.
                    “If you grudge the little services you do for me, pray abandon them,” said
                        the mother, genuinely hurt.
                    Hadria entered her room, one evening, tired out and profoundly depressed. A
                        table, covered with books, stood beside the fire. She gave the top-heavy
                        pile an impatient thrust and the mass fell, with a great crash, to the
                        floor. A heap of manuscript—her musical achievement for the past year—was
                        involved in the fall. She contemplated the wreck gravely.
                    “Yes, it is I who am weak, not circumstance that is strong. If I could keep
                        my mind unmoved by the irritations; if I could quarrel with mother, and
                        displease father, and offend all the world without a qualm, or without
                        losing the delicate balance of thought and mood necessary for composition,
                        then I should, to some extent, triumph over my circumstances; I should not
                        lose so much time in this wretched unstringing. Only were I so immovably
                        constituted, is it probable that I should be able to compose at all?”
                    She drew the score towards her. “People are surprised that women have never
                        done anything noteworthy in music. People are so intelligent!” She turned
                        over the pages critically. If only this instinct were not so overwhelmingly
                        strong! Hadria wondered how many other women, from the beginning of history,
                        had cursed the impulse to create! Fortunately, it was sometimes extinguished
                        altogether, as to-night, for instance, when every impression, every desire
                        was swept clean out of her, and her mind presented a creditable blank, such
                        as really ought to satisfy the most exacting social mentor. In such a state,
                        a woman might be induced to accept anything!
                    Hadria brought out two letters from her pocket; one from the Professor, the
                        other from Miss Du Prel. The latter had
                        been writing frequently of late, pointing out the danger of Hadria's
                        exaggerated ideas, and the probability of their ruining her happiness in
                        life. Valeria had suffered herself from “ideas,” and knew how fatal they
                        were. Life could not be exactly as one would have it, and it
                        was absolutely necessary, in order to avoid misery for oneself and others,
                        to consent to take things more or less as they were; to make up one's mind
                        to bend a little, rather than have to break, in the end. Things were never
                        quite so shocking as they seemed to one's youthful imagination. The world
                        was made up of compromises. Good was mixed with evil everywhere. The
                        domestic idea, as Hadria called it, might be, in its present phase, somewhat
                        offensive, but it could be redeemed in its application, in the details and
                        “extenuating circumstances.” Valeria could not warn Hadria too earnestly
                        against falling into the mistake that Valeria herself had made. She had
                        repudiated the notion of anything short of an ideal union; a perfect
                        comradeship, without the shadow of restraint or bondage in the relationship;
                        and not having found it, she had refused the tie altogether. She could not
                        bring herself to accept the lesser thing, having conceived the possibility
                        of the greater. She now saw her error, and repented it. She was reaping the
                        penalty in a lonely and unsatisfied life. For a long time her work had
                        seemed to suffice, but she felt now that she had been trusting to a broken
                        reed. She was terrified at her solitude. She could not face the thought of
                        old age, without a single close tie, without a home, without a hold upon her
                        race.
                    She ended by entreating Hadria not to refuse marriage merely because she
                        could not find a man to agree with her in everything, or capable of entering
                        into the spirit of the relationship that perhaps would unite the men and
                        women of the future. It was a pity that Hadria had not been born a
                        generation later, but since she had come into the world at this time of
                        transition, she must try to avoid the tragedy that threatens all spirits who
                        are pointing towards the new order, while
                        the old is still working out its unexhausted impetus.
                    This reiterated advice had begun to trouble Hadria. It did not convince her,
                        but Valeria's words were incessantly repeating themselves in her mind
                        working as a ferment among her thoughts.
                    The letters from Miss Du Prel and the Professor were to her, a source of
                        great pleasure and of great pain. In her depressed moods, they would often
                        rather increase her despondency, because the writers used to take for
                        granted so many achievements that she had not been able to accomplish.
                    “They think I am living and progressing as they are; they do not know that
                        the riot and stir of intellectual life has ceased. I am like a creature
                        struggling in a quicksand.”
                    On the Professor's letter, the comments were of a different character.
                    He had recommended her to read certain books, and reminded her that no
                        possessor of good books could lack the privilege of spiritual sanctuary.
                    “Ah! yes, I know few pleasures so great as that of finding one's own idea, or
                        hope, or longing, finely expressed, half-born thoughts alive and of stately
                        stature; and then the exquisite touches of art upon quick nerves, the
                        enlarging of the realms of imagination, knowledge, the heightening of
                        perceptions, intuitions; finally the blessed power of escaping from oneself,
                        with the paradoxical reward of greater self-realization! But, ah, Professor,
                        to me there is a ‘but’ even here. I am oppressed by a sense of the
                        discrepancy between the world that books disclose to me, and the world that
                        I myself inhabit. In books, the impossibilities are all left
                        out. They give you no sense of the sordid Inevitable that looms so large on
                        the grey horizon. Another more personal quarrel that I have with books is on
                        account of their attacking all my pet prejudices, and sneering at the type
                        of woman that I have the misfortune to belong to. I am always exhorted to
                        cure myself of being myself. Nothing less would suffice. Now this is
                        wounding. All my particular feelings, my
                        strongest beliefs, are condemned, directly or by inference. I could almost
                        believe that there is a literary conspiracy to reform me. The “true women”
                        of literature infallibly think and feel precisely as I do not
                        think and feel, while the sentiments that I detest—woe is me—are lauded to
                        the skies. Truly, if we women don't know exactly what we ought to think and
                        feel, it is not for want of telling. Yet you say, Professor, in this very
                        letter, that the sense of having a peculiar experience is always an
                        illusion, that every feeling of ours has been felt before, if not in our own
                        day, then in the crowded past, with its throngs of forgotten lives and
                        unrecorded experiences. I wish to heaven I could meet those who have had
                        exactly mine!”
                    Hadria did not keep up an active correspondence with Miss Du Prel or with the
                        Professor. She had no idea of adding to the burden of their busy lives, by
                        wails for sympathy. It seemed to her feeble, and contemptible, to ask to be
                        dragged up by their strength, instead of exerting her own. If that were
                        insufficient, why then let her go down, as thousands had gone down before
                        her. As a miser telling his gold, she would read and re-read those
                        occasional letters, written amidst the stress of life at high pressure, and
                        bearing evidence of that life of thought and work, in their tense,
                        full-packed phrases. With what a throb of longing and envy Hadria used to
                        feel the vibration through her own nerves! It was only when completely
                        exhausted and harassed that the response was lacking. To-night everything
                        seemed to be obliterated. Her hope, her interest were, for the moment, tired
                        out. Her friends would be disappointed in her, but there was no help for
                        it.
                    She picked up the score of her music, and stood, with a handful of the once
                        precious offspring of her brain held out towards the flames. Then she drew
                        it back, and half closed her eyes in self-scrutinizing thought. “Come now,”
                        she said to herself, “are you sincere in your intention of giving up? Are
                        you pot doing this in a fit of spite against destiny? as if destiny cared
                        two straws. Heavens! what a poor little
                        piece of melodrama. And to think that you should have actually taken
                        yourself in it by it. One acts so badly with only oneself for audience. You
                        know perfectly well that you are not going to give in, you are
                            not going to attempt to stifle that which is the centre of
                        your life: you have not courage for such slow suicide. Don't add insincerity
                        to the other faults that are laid to your account—” She mused over the
                        little self-administered lecture. And probing down into her consciousness,
                        she realized that she could not face the thought of surrender. She meant to
                        fight on. The notion of giving in had been seized instinctively, for a
                        moment of rest. Nothing should really make her cease the struggle, until the
                        power itself had been destroyed. She was sure of it, in her heart, in spite
                        of failures and miserably inadequate expressions of it. Suddenly, as a shaft
                        of light through parting clouds, came bursting forth, radiant, rejoicing,
                        that sense of power, large, resistless, genial as morning sunshine. Yes,
                        yes, let them say what they might, discourage, smile, or frown as they
                        would, the faculty was given to her, and she would fight for opportunity to
                        use it while she had breath.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    AS if it had all been ingeniously planned, the minutest incidents
                        and conditions of Hadria's life conspired towards the event that was to
                        decide its drift for ever.
                    Often, in the dim afternoon, she would sit by the window and watch the rain
                        sweeping across the country, longing then for Temperley's music, which used
                        to make the wild scene so unspeakably beautiful. Now there was no music, no
                        music anywhere, only this fierce and mournful rush of the wind, which seemed
                        as if it were trying to utter some universal grief. At sunset, braving the
                        cold, she would mount the creaking staircase, pass along the silent upper
                        corridors, and on through the empty rooms to the garret in the tower. The
                        solitude was a relief; the strangeness of the scene appealed to some wild
                        instinct, and to the intense melancholy that lurks in the Celtic nature.
                    Even at night, she did not shrink from braving the glooms and silences of the
                        deserted upper floor, nor the solitude of the garret, which appeared the
                        deeper, from the many memories of happy evenings that it evoked. She wished
                        Ernest would come home. It was so long since she had seen her favourite
                        brother. She could not bear the thought of his drifting away from her. What
                        talks they had had in this old garret!
                    These nights in the tower, among the winds, soothed the trouble of her spirit
                        as nothing else had power to do. The mystery of life, the thrill of
                        existence, touched her with a strange joy that ran perilously near to pain.
                        What vast dim possibilities lurked out there, in the hollows of the hills!
                        What inspiration thundered in the voice of the prophet wind!
                    
                    Once, she had gone downstairs and out, alone, in a tearing storm, to wander
                        across the bleak pastures, wrapt round by the wind as by a flame; at one
                        with the desperate elemental thing.
                    The wanderer felt herself caught into the heart of some vast unknown power,
                        of which the wind was but a thrall, until she became, for a moment,
                        consciously part of that which was universal. Her personality grew dim she
                        stood, as it seemed, face to face with Nature, divided from the ultimate
                        truth by only a thin veil, to temper the splendour and the terror. Then the
                        tension of personal feeling was loosened. She saw how entirely vain and
                        futile were the things of life that we grieve and struggle over.
                    It was not a side, an aspect of existence, but the whole of it that seemed to
                        storm round her, in the darkness. No wonder, when the wind was let loose
                        among the mountains, that the old Highland people thought that their dead
                        were about them. All night long, after Hadria returned to her room in the
                        keep, the wind kept up its cannonade against the walls, hooting in the
                        chimneys with derisive voices, and flinging itself, in mad revolt, against
                        the old-established hills and the stable earth, which changed its forms only
                        in slow obedience to the persuadings of the elements, in the passing of
                        centuries. It cared nothing for the passion of a single storm.
                    And then came reaction, doubt. After all, humanity was a puny production of
                        the Ages. Men and women were like the struggling animalculæ that her father
                        had so often shewn the boys, in a drop of magnified ditch-water; yet not
                        quite like those microscopic insects, for the stupendous processes of life
                        had at last created a widening consciousness, a mind which could perceive
                        the bewildering vastness of Nature and its own smallness, which could, in
                        some measure, get outside its own particular ditch, and the strife and
                        struggle of it, groping upwards for larger realities— 
                            “Over us stars and under us graves.”
                        
                    To go down next morning to breakfast; to meet the usual homely events, was
                        bewildering after such a night. Which was
                        dream: this or that? So solid and convincing seemed, at times, the interests
                        and objects of every day, that Hadria would veer round to a sudden
                        conviction that these things, or what they symbolized, were indeed the solid
                        facts of human life, and that all other impressions arose from the
                        disorderly working of overcharged brain-cells. It was a little ailment of
                        youth and would pass off. Had it been possible to describe to her father the
                        impressions made upon her by the world and Nature, as they had presented
                        themselves to her imagination from her childhood, he would have prescribed
                        change of air and gymnastics. Perhaps that was the really rational view of
                        the matter. But what if these hygienic measures cured her of the haunting
                        consciousness of mystery and vastness; what if she became convinced of the
                        essential importance of the Gordon pedigree, or of the amount of social
                        consideration due to the family who had taken Clarenoc? Would that alter the
                        bewildring truths of which she would have ceased to think?
                    No; it would only mean that the animalcule had returned to the occupations of
                        its ditch, while the worlds and the peoples went spinning to their
                        destiny.
                    “Do the duty that lies nearest thee,” counselled everybody: people of all
                        kinds, books of all kinds. “Cheap, well-sounding advice,” thought Hadria,
                        “sure of popularity! Continue to wriggle industriously, O animalcule, in
                        that particular ditch wherein it has pleased heaven to place thee; seek not
                        the flowing stream and the salt ocean; and if, some clear night, a star
                        finds room to mirror itself in thy little stagnant world, shining through
                        the fat weeds and slime that almost shut out the heavens, pray be careful
                        not to pay too much heed to the high-born luminary. Look to your wriggling;
                        that is your proper business. An animalcule that does not wriggle must be
                        morbid or peculiar. All will tender, in different forms of varying elegance,
                        the safe and simple admonition: ‘Wriggle and be damned to you!’”
                    
                    
                    It was at this somewhat fevered moment, that Hubert Temperley appeared, once
                        more, upon the scene. Hadria was with her mother, taking tea at Drumgarren,
                        when Mrs. Gordon, catching the sounds of carriage wheels, announced that she
                        was expecting Hubert and his sister for a visit. In another second, the
                        travellers were in the drawing-room.
                    Hubert's self-possession was equal to the occasion. He introduced his sister
                        to Mrs. Fullerton and Hadria. Miss Temperley was his junior by a year; a
                        slight, neatly-built young woman, with a sort of tact that went on
                        brilliantly up to a certain point, and then suddenly collapsed altogether.
                        She had her brother's self-complacency, and an air of encouragement which
                        Mrs. Gordon seemed to find most gratifying.
                    She dressed perfectly, in quiet Parisian fashion. Hadria saw that her brother
                        had taken her into his confidence, or she concluded so from something in
                        Miss Temperley's manner. The latter treated Hadria with a certain
                        familiarity, as if she had known her for some time, and she had a way of
                        seeming to take her apart, when addressing her, as if there were a sort of
                        understanding between them. It was here that her instinct failed her; for
                        she seemed unaware that this assumption of an intimacy that did not exist
                        was liable to be resented, and that it might be unpleasant to be expected to
                        catch special remarks sent over the heads of the others, although ostensibly
                        for the common weal.
                    Hadria thought that she had never seen so strange a contrast as this young
                        woman's behaviour, within and without the circle of her perceptions. It was
                        the more remarkable, since her mind was bent upon the details and niceties
                        of conduct, and the nuances of
                        existence.
                    “I shall come and see you as soon as I can,” she promised, when Mrs.
                        Fullerton rose to leave.
                    Miss Temperley kept her word. She was charmed with the old house, praising
                        authoritatively.
                    “This is an excellent piece of carving; far superior to the one in the
                        dining-room. Ah, yes, that is charming; so well arranged. You ought to have a touch of blue there
                        to make it perfect.”
                    Hubert shewed good taste in keeping away from Dunaghee, except to pay his
                        call on Mr. and Mrs. Fullerton.
                    “Hadria,” said his sister, “I am going to call you by your pretty Christian
                        name, and I want you to call me Henriette. I feel I have known you much
                        longer than ten days, because Hubert has told me so much about you, and your
                        music. You play charmingly. So much native talent. You want good training,
                        of course; but you really might become a brilliant performer. Hubert is
                        quite distressed that you should not enjoy more advantages. I should like so
                        much if you could come and stay with us in town, and have some good lessons.
                        Do think of it.”
                    Hadria flushed. “Oh, thank you, I could not do that—I—”
                    “I understand you, dear Hadria,” said Henriette, drawing her chair closer to
                        the fire. “You know, Hubert can never keep anything of great importance from
                        me.” She looked arch.
                    Hadria muttered something that might have discouraged a less persistent
                        spirit, but Miss Temperley paid no attention.
                    “Poor Hubert! I have had to be a ministering angel to him during these last
                        months.”
                    “Why do you open up this subject, Miss Temperley?”
                    “Henriette, if you please,” cried that young woman, with the air
                        of a playful potentate who has requested a favoured courtier to drop the
                        ceremonious “Your Majesty” in private conversation.
                    “It was I who made him accept Mrs. Gordon's invitation. He very nearly
                        refused it. He feared that it would be unpleasant for you. But I insisted on
                        his coming. Why should he not? He would like so much to come here more
                        often, but again he fears to displease you. He is not a Temperley for
                        nothing. They are not of the race of fools who rush in where angels fear to
                        tread.”
                    
                    “Are they not?” asked Hadria absently.
                    “We both see your difficulty,” Miss Temperley went on. “Hubert would not so
                        misunderstand you—the dear fellow is full of delicacy—and I should dearly
                        love to hear him play to your accompaniment; he used to enjoy those
                        practices so much. Would you think him intrusive if he brought his 'cello some afternoon?”
                    Hadria, not without an uneasy qualm, agreed to the suggestion, though by no
                        means cordially.
                    Accordingly brother and sister arrived, one afternoon, for the practice.
                        Henriette took the leadership, visibly employed tact and judgment, talked a
                        great deal, and was surprisingly delicate, as beseemed a Temperley. Hadria
                        found the occasion somewhat trying nevertheless, and Hubert stumbled, at
                        first, in his playing. In a few minutes, however, both musicians became
                        possessed by the music, and then all went well. Henriette sat in an easy
                        chair and listened critically. Now and then she would call out “bravo,” or
                        “admirable,” and when the performance was over, she was warm in her
                        congratulations.
                    Hadria was flushed with the effort and pleasure of the performance.
                    “I never heard Hubert's playing to such advantage,” said his sister. “I seem
                        to hear it for the first time. You really ought to practise together often.”
                        Another afternoon was appointed; Henriette left Hadria almost no choice.
                    After the next meeting, the constraint had a little worn off, and the
                        temptation to continue the practising was very strong. Henriette's presence
                        was reassuring. And then Hubert seemed so reasonable, and had apparently put
                        the past out of his mind altogether.
                    After the practice, brother and sister would linger a little in the
                        drawing-room, chatting. Hubert appeared to advantage in his sister's
                        society. She had a way of striking his best vein. Her own talent ran with
                        his, appealed to it, and created the conditions for its display. Her
                        presence and inspiration seemed to
                        produce, on his ability, a sort of cumulative effect. Henriette set all the
                        familiar machinery in motion; pressed the right button, and her brother
                        became brilliant.
                    A slight touch of diffidence in his manner softened the effect of his usual
                        complacency. Hadria liked him better than she had liked him on his previous
                        visit. His innate refinement appealed to her powerfully. Moreover, he was
                        cultivated and well-read, and his society was agreeable. Oh, why did this
                        everlasting, matrimonial idea come in and spoil everything? Why could not
                        men and women have interests in common, without wishing instantly to plunge
                        into a condition of things which hampered and crippled them so
                        miserably?
                    Hadria was disposed to under-rate all defects, and to make the most of all
                        virtues in Hubert, at the present moment. He had come at just the right time
                        to make a favourable impression upon her; for the loneliness of her life had
                        begun to leave its mark, and to render her extremely sensitive to
                        influence.
                    She was an alien among the people of her circle; and she felt vaguely guilty
                        in failing to share their ideas and ambitions. Their glances, their
                        silences, conveyed a world of cold surprise and condemnation.
                    Hubert was tolerance itself compared with the majority of her associates. She
                        felt almost as if he had done her a personal kindness when he omitted to
                        look astonished at her remarks, or to ignore them as “awkward.”
                    Yet she felt uneasy about this renewal of the practices, and tried to avoid
                        them as often as possible, though sorely against her inclination. They were
                        so great a relief and enjoyment. Her inexperience, and her carelessness of
                        conventional standards, put her somewhat off her guard. Hubert showed no
                        signs of even remembering the interview of last year, that had been cut
                        short by her father's entrance. Why should she insist on
                        keeping it in mind? It was foolish. Moreover she had been expressly given to understand, in a most
                        pointed manner, that her conduct would not be misinterpreted if she allowed
                        him to come occasionally.
                    From several remarks that Temperley made, she saw that he too regarded the
                        ordinary domestic existence with distaste. It offended his fastidiousness.
                        He was fastidious to his finger-tips. It amused Hadria to note the contrast
                        between him and Mr. Gordon, who was a typical father of a family; limited in
                        his interests to that circle; an amiable ruler of a tiny, somewhat absurd
                        little world, pompous and important and inconceivably dull.
                    The bourgeois side of this life was
                        evidently displeasing to Hubert. Good taste was his fetish. From his remarks
                        about women, Hadria was led to observe how subtly critical he was with
                        regard to feminine qualities, and wondered if his preference for herself
                        ought to be regarded as a great compliment.
                    Henriette congratulated her on having been admired by the fastidious
                        Hubert.
                    “Let us hope it speaks well for me,” Hadria replied with a cynical smile,
                        “but I have so often noticed that men who are very difficult to please,
                        choose for the domestic hearth the most dreary and unattractive woman of
                        their acquaintance! I sometimes doubt if men ever do marry the women they
                        most admire.”
                    “They do, when they can win them,” said Henriette.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    DURING Henriette's visit, one of the meetings of the Preposterous
                        Society fell due, and she expressed a strong wish to be present. She also
                        craved the privilege of choosing the subject of discussion. Finally, she
                        received a formal request from the members to give the lecture herself. She
                        was full of enthusiasm about the Society (such an educating influence!), and
                        prepared her paper with great care. There had been a tendency among the
                        circle, to politely disagree with Henriette. Her ideas respecting various
                        burning topics were at variance with the trend of opinion at Dunaghee, and
                        Miss Temperley was expected to take this opportunity of enlightening the
                        family. The family was equally resolved not to be enlightened.
                    “I have chosen for my subject to-night,” said the lecturer, “one that is
                        beginning to occupy public attention very largely: I mean the sphere of
                        woman in society.”
                    The audience, among whom Hubert had been admitted at his sister's earnest
                        request, drew themselves together, and a little murmur of battle ran along
                        the line. Henriette's figure, in her well-fitting Parisian gown, looked
                        singularly out of place in the garret, with the crazy old candle-holder
                        beside her, the yellow flame of the candle flinging fantastic shadows on the
                        vaulted roof, preposterously distorting her neat form, as if in wicked
                        mockery. The moonlight streamed in, as usual on the nights chosen by the
                        Society for their meetings.
                    Henriette's paper was neatly expressed, and its sentiments were admirable.
                        She maintained a perfect balance between the bigotry of the past and the
                        violence of the present. Her phrases
                        seemed to rock, like a pair of scales, from excess to excess, on either
                        side. She came to rest in the exact middle. This led to the Johnsonian
                        structure, or, as Hadria afterwards said, to the style of a
                            Times leading article: “While we remember on the one hand,
                        we must not forget on the other—”
                    At the end of the lecture, the audience found themselves invited to
                        sympathize cautiously and circumspectly with the advancement of women, but
                        led, at the same time, to conclude that good taste and good feeling forbade
                        any really nice woman from moving a little finger to attain, or to help
                        others to attain, the smallest fraction more of freedom, or an inch more of
                        spiritual territory, than was now enjoyed by her sex. When, at some future
                        time, wider privileges should have been conquered by the exertions of
                        someone else, then the really nice woman could saunter in and enjoy the
                        booty. But till then, let her leave boisterous agitation to others, and
                        endear herself to all around her by her patience and her loving
                        self-sacrifice.
                    “That pays better for the present,” Hadria was heard to mutter to an adjacent
                        member.
                    The lecturer, in her concluding remarks, gave a smile of ineffable sweetness,
                        sadly marred, however, by the grotesque effect of the flickering shadows
                        that were cast on her face by the candle. After all, duty not
                            right was the really important matter, and the lecturer
                        thought that it would be better if one heard the former word rather oftener
                        in connection with the woman's question, and the latter word rather more
                        seldom. Then, with new sweetness, and in a tone not to be described, she
                        went on to speak of the natural responsibilities and joys of her sex,
                        drawing a moving, if somewhat familiar picture of those avocations, than
                        which she was sure there could be nothing higher or holier.
                    For some not easily explained cause, the construction of this sentence gave
                        it a peculiar unctuous force: “than which,” as Fred afterwards remarked,
                        “would have bowled over any but the most hardened sinner.”
                    For weeks after this memorable lecture, if any very lofty altitude had to be ascended in conversational
                        excursions, the aspirant invariably smiled with ineffable tenderness and
                        lightly scaled the height, murmuring “than which” to a vanquished
                        audience.
                    The lecture was followed by a discussion that rather took the stiffness out
                        of Miss Temperley's phrases. The whole party was roused. Algitha had to
                        whisper a remonstrance to the boys, for their solemn questions were becoming
                        too preposterous. The lecture was discussed with much warmth. There was a
                        tendency to adopt the form “than which” with some frequency. Bursts of
                        laughter startled a company of rats in the wainscoting, and there was a
                        lively scamper behind the walls. No obvious opposition was offered. Miss
                        Temperley's views were examined with gravity, and indeed in a manner almost
                        pompous. But by the end of that trying process, they had a sadly bedraggled
                        and plucked appearance, much to their parent's bewilderment. She endeavoured
                        to explain further, and was met by guilelessly intelligent questions, which
                        had the effect of depriving the luckless objects of their solitary remaining
                        feather. The members of the society continued to pine for information, and
                        Miss Temperley endeavoured to provide it, till late into the night. The
                        discussion finally drifted on to dangerous ground. Algitha declared that she
                        considered that no man had any just right to ask a woman to pledge herself
                        to love him and live with him for the rest of her life. How
                            could she? Hubert suggested that the woman made the same
                        claim on the man.
                    “Which is equally absurd,” said Algitha. “Just as if any two people, when
                        they are beginning to form their characters, could possibly be sure of their
                        sentiments for the rest of their days. They have no business to marry at
                        such an age. They are bound to alter.”
                    “But they must regard it as their duty not to alter with regard to one
                        another,” said Henriette.
                    “Quite so; just as they ought to regard it as their duty among other things,
                        not to grow old,” suggested Fred.
                    
                    “Then, Algitha, do you mean that they may fall in love elsewhere?” Ernest
                        inquired.
                    “They very likely will do so, if they make such an absurd
                        start,” Algitha declared.
                    “And if they do?”
                    “Then, if the sentiment stands test and trial, and proves genuine, and not a
                        silly freak, the fact ought to be frankly faced. Husband and wife have no
                        business to go on keeping up a bond that has become false and irksome.”
                    Miss Temperley broke into protest. “But surely you don't mean to defend such
                        faithlessness.”
                    Algitha would not admit that it was faithlessness. She said it
                        was mere honesty. She could see nothing inherently wrong in falling in love
                        genuinely after one arrived at years of discretion. She thought it
                        inherently idiotic, and worse, to make a choice that ought to be for life,
                        at years of indiscretion. Still, people were
                        idiotic, and that must be considered, as well as all the other facts, such
                        as the difficulty of really knowing each other before marriage, owing to
                        social arrangements, and also owing to the training, which made men and
                        women always pose so ridiculously towards one another, pretending to be
                        something that they were not.
                    “Well done, Algitha,” cried Ernest, laughing; “I like to hear you speak out.
                        Now tell me frankly: supposing you married quite young, before you had had
                        much experience; supposing you afterwards found that you and your husband
                        had both been deceiving yourselves and each other, unconsciously perhaps;
                        and suppose, when more fully awakened and developed, you met another fellow
                        and fell in love with him genuinely, what would you do?”
                    “Oh, she would just mention it to her husband casually,” Fred interposed with
                        a chuckle, “and disappear.”
                    “I should certainly not go through terrific emotions and self-accusations,
                        and think the end of the world had come,” said Algitha serenely. “I should
                        calmly face the situation.”
                    
                    “Calmly! She by supposition being madly in love!” ejaculated Fred, with a
                        chuckle.
                    “Calmly,” repeated Algitha. “And I should consider carefully what would be
                        best for all concerned. If I decided, after mature consideration and
                        self-testing, that I ought to leave my husband, I should leave him, as I
                        should hope he would leave me, in similar circumstances. That is my idea of
                        right.”
                    “And is this also your idea of right, Miss Fullerton?” asked Temperley,
                        turning, in some trepidation, to Hadria.
                    “That seems to me right in the abstract. One can't pronounce for particular
                        cases where circumstances are entangled.”
                    Hubert sank back in his chair, and ran his hand over his brow. He seemed
                        about to speak, but he checked himself.
                    “Where did you get such extraordinary ideas from?” cried Miss Temperley.
                    “They were like Topsy; they growed,” said Fred.
                    “We have been in the habit of speculating freely on all subjects,” said
                        Ernest, “ever since we could talk. This is the blessed result!”
                    “I am not quite so sure now, that the Preposterous Society meets with my
                        approval,” observed Miss Temperley.
                    “If you had been brought up in the bosom of this Society, Miss Temperley, you
                        too, perhaps, would have come to this. Think of it!”
                    “Does your mother know what sort of subjects you discuss?”
                    There was a shout of laughter. “Mother used often to come into the nursery
                        and surprise us in hot discussion on the origin of evil,” said Hadria.
                    “Don't you believe what she says, Miss Temperley,” cried Fred; “mother never
                        could teach Hadria the most rudimentary notions of accuracy.”
                    “Her failure with my brothers, was in the department of manners,” Hadria
                        observed.
                    “Then she does not know what you talk about?” persisted
                        Henriette.
                    
                    “You ask her,” prompted Fred, with undisguised glee.
                    “She never attends our meetings,” said Algitha.
                    “Well, well, I cannot understand it!” cried Miss Temperley. “However, you
                        don't quite know what you are talking about, and one mustn't blame you.”
                    “No, don't,” urged Fred; “we are a sensitive family.”
                    “Shut up!” cried Ernest with a warning frown.
                    “Oh, you are a coarse-grained exception; I speak of the family average,” Fred
                        answered with serenity.
                    Henriette felt that nothing more could be done with this strange audience.
                        Her business was really with the President of the Society. The girl was bent
                        on ruining her life with these wild notions. Miss Temperley decided that it
                        would be better to talk to Hadria quietly in her own room, away from the
                        influence of these eccentric brothers and that extraordinary sister. After
                        all, it was Algitha who had originated the shocking view, not Hadria, who
                        had merely agreed, doubtless out of a desire to support her sister.
                    “I have not known you for seven years, but I am going to poke your fire,”
                        said Henriette, when they were established in Hadria's room.
                    “I never thought you would wait so long as that,” was Hadria's ambiguous
                        reply.
                    Then Henriette opened her batteries. She talked without interruption, her
                        companion listening, agreeing occasionally with her adversary, in a
                        disconcerting manner; then falling into silence.
                    “It seems to me that you are making a very terrible mistake in your life,
                        Hadria. You have taken up a fixed idea about domestic duties and all that,
                        and are going to throw away your chances of forming a happy home of your
                        own, out of a mere prejudice. You may not admire Mrs. Gordon's existence;
                        for my part I think she leads a very good, useful life, but there is no
                        reason why all married lives should be like hers.”
                    “Why are they, then?”
                    “I don't see that they are.”
                    
                    “It is the prevailing type. It shows the why the domestic wind blows. Fancy
                        having to be always resisting such a wind. What an oblique, shorn-looking
                        object one would be after a few years!”
                    Henriette grew eloquent. She recalled instances of women who had fulfilled
                        all their home duties, and been successful in other walks as well; she drew
                        pictures in attractive colours of Hadria in a home of her own, with far more
                        liberty than was possible under her parents' roof: and then she drew another
                        picture of Hadria fifteen years hence at Dunaghee.
                    Hadria covered her face with her hands. “You who uphold all these social
                        arrangements, how do you feel when you find yourself obliged to urge me to
                        marry, not for the sake of the positive joys of domestic existence, but for
                        the merely negative advantage of avoiding a hapless and forlorn state? You
                        propose it as a pis-aller. Does
                            that argue that all is sound in the state of Denmark?”
                    “If you had not this unreasonable objection to what is really a woman's
                        natural destiny, the difficulty would not exist.”
                    “Have women no pride?”
                    Henriette did not answer.
                    “Have they no sense of dignity? If one marries (accepting things on the usual
                        basis, of course) one gives to another person rights and powers over one's
                        life that are practically boundless. To retain one's self-direction in case
                        of dispute would be possible only on pain of social ruin. I have little
                        enough freedom now, heaven knows; but if I married, why my very thoughts
                        would become the property of another. Thought, emotion, love itself, must
                        pass under the yoke! There would be no nook or corner entirely and
                        indisputably my own.”
                    “I should not regard that as a hardship,” said Henriette, “if I loved my
                        husband.”
                    “I should consider it not only a hardship, but beyond endurance.”
                    
                    “But, my dear, you are impracticable.”
                    “That is what I think domestic life is!” Hadria's quiet tone was suddenly
                        changed to one of scorn. “You talk of love; what has love worthy of the name
                        to do with this preposterous interference with the freedom of another
                        person? If that is what love means—the craving to possess and
                        restrain and demand and hamper and absorb, and generally make mince-meat of
                        the beloved object, then preserve me from the master-passion.”
                    Henriette was baffled. “I don't know how to make you see this in a truer
                        light,” she said. “There is something to my mind so beautiful in the close
                        union of two human beings, who pledge themselves to love and honour one
                        another, to face life hand in hand, to share every thought, every hope, to
                        renounce each his own wishes for the sake of the other.”
                    “That sounds very elevating; in practice it breeds Mr. and Mrs. Gordon.”
                    “Do you mean to tell me you will never marry on this account?”
                    “I would never marry anyone who would exact the usual submissions and
                        renunciations, or even desire them, which I suppose amounts almost to saying
                        that I shall never marry at all. What man would endure a wife who demanded
                        to retain her absolute freedom, as in the case of a close friendship? The
                        man is not born!”
                    “You seem to forget, dear Hadria, in objecting to place yourself under the
                        yoke, as you call it, that your husband would also be obliged to resign part
                        of his independence to you. The prospect of loss of liberty in
                        marriage often prevents a man from marrying (“Wise man!” ejaculated Hadria),
                        so you see the disadvantage is not all on one side, if so you choose to
                        consider it.”
                    “Good heavens! do you think that the opportunity to interfere with another
                        person would console me for being interfered with myself? I don't want my
                        share of the constraining power. I would as soon accept the lash of a slave-driver. This moral lash is almost
                        more odious than the other, for its thongs are made of the affections and
                        the domestic ‘virtues,’ than which there can be nothing sneakier or more
                        detestable!”
                    Henriette heaved a discouraged sigh. “You are wrong, my dear Hadria,” she
                        said emphatically; “you are wrong, wrong, wrong.”
                    “How? why?”
                    “One can't have everything in this life. You must be willing to resign part
                        of your privileges for the sake of the far greater privileges that you
                        acquire.”
                    “I can imagine nothing that would compensate for the loss of freedom, the
                        right to oneself.”
                    “What about love?” murmured Henriette.
                    “Love!” echoed Hadria scornfully. “Do you suppose I could ever love a man who
                        had the paltry, ungenerous instinct to enchain me?”
                    “Why use such extreme terms? Love does not enchain.”
                    “Exactly what I contend,” interrupted Hadria.
                    “But naturally husband and wife have claims.”
                    “Naturally. I have just been objecting to them in what you describe as
                        extreme terms.”
                    “But I mean, when people care for one another, it is a joy to them to
                        acknowledge ties and obligations of affection.”
                    “Ah! one knows what that euphemism means!”
                    “Pray what does it mean?”
                    “That the one serious endeavour in the life of married people is to be able
                        to call each other's souls their own.”
                    Henriette stared.
                    “My language may not be limpid.”
                    “Oh, I see what you mean. I was only wondering who can have taught you all
                        these strange ideas.”
                    Hadria at length gave way to a laugh that had been threatening for some
                        time.
                    “My mother,” she observed simply.
                    Henriette gave it up.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    THE family had reassembled for the New Year's festivities. The
                        change in Algitha since her departure from home was striking. She was
                        gentler, more affectionate to her parents, than of yore. The tendency to
                        grow hard and fretful had entirely disappeared. The sense of self was
                        obviously lessened with the need for self-defence. Hadria discovered that an
                        attachment was springing up between her sister and Wilfred Burton, about
                        whom she wrote so frequently, and that this development of her emotional
                        nature, united with her work, had given a glowing centre to her life which
                        showed itself in a thousand little changes of manner and thought. Hadria
                        told her sister that she felt herself unreal and fanciful in her presence.
                        “I go twirling things round and round in my head till I grow dizzy. But you
                        compare ideas with fact; you even turn ideas into fact; while I can get no
                        hold on fact at all. Thoughts rise as mists rise from the river, but nothing
                        happens. I feel them begin to prey upon me, working inwards.”
                    Algitha shook her head. “It is a mad world,” she said. “Week after week goes
                        by, and there seems no lifting of the awful darkness in which the lives of
                        these millions are passed. We want workers by the thousand. Yet, as if in
                        mockery, the Devil keeps these well-fed thousands eating their hearts out in
                        idleness or artificial occupations till they become diseased merely for want
                        of something to do. Then,” added Algitha, “His Majesty marries them, and
                        sets them to work to create another houseful of idle creatures, who have to
                        be supported by the deathly toil of those who labour too much.”
                    “The devil is full of resources!” said Hadria.
                    Miss Temperley had been asked to stay at Dunaghee for the New Year. Algitha conceived for her a
                        sentiment almost vindictive. Hadria and the boys enjoyed nothing better than
                        to watch Miss Temperley giving forth her opinions, while Algitha's figure
                        gradually stiffened and her neck drew out, as Fred said, in truly telescopic
                        fashion, like that of Alice in Wonderland. The boys constructed a figure of
                        cushions, stuffed into one of Algitha's old gowns, the neck being a padded
                        broom-handle, made to work up and down at pleasure; and with this
                        counterfeit presentment of their sister, they used to act the scene amidst
                        shouts of applause, Miss Temperley entering, on one occasion, when the
                        improvised cocoa-nut head had reached its culminating point of high disdain,
                        somewhere about the level of the curtain-poles.
                    On New-Year's-eve, Dunaghee was full of guests. There was to be a children's
                        party, to which however most of the grown-up neighbours were also
                        invited.
                    “What a charming sight!” cried Henriette, standing with her neat foot on the
                        fender in the hall, where the children were playing blind man's buff.
                    Mrs. Fullerton sat watching them with a dreamy smile. The scene recalled many
                        an old memory. Mr. Fullerton was playing with the children.
                    Everyone remarked how well the two girls looked in their new evening gowns.
                        They had made them themselves, in consequence of a wager with Fred, who had
                        challenged them to combine pink and green satisfactorily.
                    “The gowns are perfect!” Temperley ventured to remark. “So much
                        distinction!”
                    “All my doing,” cried Fred. “I chose the colours.”
                    “Distinction comes from within,” said Temperley. “I should like to see what
                        sort of gown in pink and green Mrs. —.” He stopped short abruptly.
                    Fred gave a chuckle. Indiscreet eyes wandered towards Mrs. Gordon's brocade
                        and silver.
                    Later in the evening, that lady played dance music in a florid manner,
                        resembling her taste in dress. The younger children had gone home, and the
                        hall was filled with spinning couples.
                    
                    “I hope we are to have some national dances,” said Miss Temperley. “My
                        brother and I are both looking forward to seeing a true reel danced by
                        natives of the country.”
                    “Oh, certainly!” said Mr. Fullerton. “My daughters are rather celebrated for
                        their reels, especially Hadria.” Mr. Fullerton executed a step or two with
                        great agility.
                    “The girl gets quite out of herself when she is dancing,” said Mrs.
                        Fullerton. “She won't be scolded about it, for she says she takes after her
                        father!”
                    “That's the time to get round her,” observed Fred. “If we want to set her up
                        to some real fun, we always play a reel and wait till she's well into the
                        spirit of the thing, and then, I'll wager, she would stick at nothing.”
                    “It's a fact,” added Ernest. “It really seems to half mesmerise her.”
                    “How very curious!” cried Miss Temperley.
                    She and her brother found themselves watching the dancing a little apart from
                        the others.
                    “I would try again to-night, Hubert,” she said in a low voice.
                    He was silent for a moment, twirling the tassel of the curtain.
                    “There is nothing to be really alarmed at in her ideas, regretable as they
                        are. She is young. That sort of thing will soon wear off after she is
                        married.”
                    Temperley flung away the tassel.
                    “She doesn't know what she is talking about. These high-flown lectures and
                        discussions have filled all their heads with nonsense. It will have to be
                        rooted out when they come to face the world. No use to oppose her now.
                        Nothing but experience will teach her. She must just be humoured for the
                            present. They have all run a little wild in their notions.
                        Time will cure that.”
                    “I am sure of it,” said Hubert tolerantly. “They don't know the real import
                        of what they say.” He hugged this sentence with satisfaction.
                    “They are like the young Russians one reads about in Turgenieff's novels,”
                        said Henriette—“all ideas, no commonsense.”
                    
                    “And you really believe—?”
                    Henriette's hand was laid comfortingly on her brother's arm.
                    “Dear Hubert, I know something of my sex. After a year of married life, a
                        woman has too many cares and responsibilities to trouble about ideas of this
                        kind, or of any other.”
                    “She strikes me as being somewhat persistent by nature,” said Hubert,
                        choosing a gentler word than obstinate to describe the quality
                        in the lady of his affections.
                    “Let her be as persistent as she may, it is not possible for any woman to
                        resist the laws and beliefs of Society. What can she do against all the
                        world? She can't escape from the conditions of her epoch. Oh! she may talk
                        boldly now, for she does not understand; she is a mere infant as regards
                        knowledge of the world, but once a wife—”
                    Henriette smiled and shook her head, by way of finish to her sentence. Hubert
                        mused silently for some minutes.
                    “I could not endure that there should be any disturbance—any eccentricity—in
                        our life—”
                    “My dear boy, if you don't trust to the teaching of experience to cure Hadria
                        of these fantastic notions, rely upon the resistless persuasions of our
                        social facts and laws. Nothing can stand against them—certainly not the
                        fretful heresies of an inexperienced girl, who, remember, is really good and
                        kind at heart.”
                    “Ah! yes,” cried Hubert; “a fine nature, full of good instincts, and womanly
                        to her finger-tips.”
                    “Oh! if she were not that, I would never encourage you to think
                        of her,” cried Henriette with a shudder. “It is on this essential goodness
                        of heart that I rely. She would never be able, try as she might, to act in a
                        manner that would really distress those who were dear to her. You may count
                        upon that securely.”
                    “Yes; I am sure of it,” said Hubert, “but unluckily” (he shook his head and
                        sighed) “I am not among those who are dear to her.”
                    He rose abruptly, and Henriette followed him.
                    
                    “Try to win her to-night,” she murmured, “and be sure to express no
                        opposition to her ideas, however wild they may be. Ignore them, humour her,
                        plead your cause once more on this auspicious day—the last of the old year.
                        Something tells me that the new year will begin joyously for you. Go now,
                        and good luck to you.”
                    “Ah! here you are,” cried Mr. Fullerton, “we were wondering what had become
                        of you. You said you wished to see a reel. Mrs. McPherson is so good as to
                        play for us.”
                    The kindly old Scottish dame had come, with two nieces, from a distance of
                        ten miles.
                    A thrill ran through the company when the strange old tune began. Everyone
                        rushed for a partner, and two long rows of figures stood facing one another,
                        eager to start. Temperley asked Hadria to dance with him. Algitha had Harold
                        Wilkins for a partner. The two long rows were soon stepping and twirling
                        with zest and agility. A new and wilder spirit began to possess the whole
                        party. The northern blood took fire and transfigured the dancers. The
                        Temperleys seemed to be fashioned of different clay; they were able to keep
                        their heads. Several elderly people had joined in the dance, performing
                        their steps with a conscientious dexterity that put some of their juniors to
                        shame. Mr. Fullerton stood by, looking on and applauding.
                    “How your father seems to enjoy the sight!” said Temperley, as he met his
                        partner for a moment.
                    “He likes nothing so well, and his daughters take after him.”
                    Hadria's reels were celebrated, not without reason. Some mad spirit seemed to
                        possess her. It would appear almost as if she had passed into a different
                        phase of character. She lost caution and care and the sense of external
                        events.
                    When the dance was ended, Hubert led her from the hall. She went as if in a
                        dream. She would not allow herself to be taken beyond the sound of the
                        grotesque old dance music that was still going on, but otherwise she was
                        unresisting.
                    He sat down beside her in a corner of the dining-room. Now and then he glanced at his companion, and
                        seemed about to speak. “You seem fond of your national music,” he at last
                        remarked.
                    “It fills me with bewildering memories,” she said in a dreamy tone. “It seems
                        to recall—it eludes description—some wild, primitive experiences—mountains,
                        mists—I can't express what northern mysteries. It seems almost as if I had
                        lived before, among some ancient Celtic people, and now, when I hear their
                        music—or sometimes when I hear the sound of wind among the pines—whiffs and
                        gusts of something intensely familiar return to me, and I cannot grasp it.
                        It is very bewildering.”
                    “The only thing that happens to me of the kind is that curious sense of
                        having done a thing before. Strange to say, I feel it now. This moment is
                        not new to me.”
                    Hadria gave a startled glance at her companion, and shuddered.
                    “I suppose it is all pre-ordained,” she said. He was puzzled, but more
                        hopeful than usual. Hadria might almost have accepted him in sheer absence
                        of mind. He put the thought in different terms. He began to speak more
                        boldly. He gave his view of life and happiness, his philosophy and religion.
                        Hadria lazily agreed. She lay under a singular spell. The bizarre old music
                        smote still upon the ear. She felt as if she were in the thrall of some
                        dream whose events followed one another, as the scenes of a moving panorama
                        unfold themselves before the spectators. Temperley began to plead his cause.
                        Hadria, with a startled look in her eyes, tried to check him. But her will
                        refused to issue a vigorous command. Even had he been hateful to her, which
                        he certainly was not, she felt that she would have been unable to wake out
                        of the nightmare, and resume the conduct of affairs. The sense of the
                        importance of personal events had entirely disappeared. What did it all
                        matter? “Over us stars and under us graves.” The graves would put it all
                        right some day. As for attempting to direct one's fate, and struggle out of
                        the highways of the world—midsummer
                        madness! It was not only the Mrs. Gordons, but the Valeria Du Prel who told
                        one so. Everybody said (but in discreeter terms), “Disguise from yourself
                        the solitude by setting up little screens of affections, and little pompous
                        affairs about which you must go busily, and with all the solemnity that you
                        can muster.”
                    The savage builds his mud hut to shelter him from the wind and the rain and
                        the terror of the beyond. Outside is the wilderness ready to engulf him.
                        Rather than be left alone at the mercy of elemental things, with no little
                        hut, warm and dark and stuffy, to shelter one, a woman will sacrifice
                        everything—liberty, ambition, health, power, her very dignity. There was a
                        letter in Hadria's pocket at this moment, eloquently protesting in favour of
                        the mud hut.
                    Hadria must have been appearing to listen favourably to Temperley's pleading,
                        for he said eagerly, “Then I have not spoken this time quite in vain. I may
                        hope that perhaps some day—”
                    “Some day,” repeated Hadria, passing her hand across her eyes. “It doesn't
                        really matter. I mean we make too much fuss about these trifles; don't you
                        think so?” She spoke dreamily. The music was jigging on with strange
                        merriment.
                    “To me it matters very much indeed. I don't consider it a trifle,” said
                        Temperley, in some bewilderment.
                    “Oh, not to ourselves. But of what importance are we?”
                    “None at all, in a certain sense,” Temperley admitted; “but in another sense
                        we are all important. I cannot help being intensely personal at this moment.
                        I can't help grasping at the hope of happiness. Hadria, it lies in your
                        hand. Won't you be generous?”
                    She gave a distressed gesture, and seemed to make some vain effort, as when
                        the victim of a nightmare struggles to overcome the paralysis that holds
                        him.
                    “Then I may hope a little, Hadria—I must hope.”
                    Still the trance seemed to hold her enthralled. The music was diabolically
                        merry. She could fancy evil spirits tripping to it in swarms around her. They seemed to point at her, and wave their
                        arms around her, and from them came an influence, magnetic in its quality,
                        that forbade her to resist. All had been pre-arranged. Nothing could avert
                        it. She seemed to be waiting rather than acting. Against her inner judgment,
                        she had allowed those accursed practices to go on. Against her instinct, she
                        had permitted Henriette to become intimate at Dunaghee; indeed it would have
                        been hard to avoid it, for Miss Temperley was not easy to discourage. Why
                        had she assured Hadria so pointedly that Hubert would not misinterpret her
                        consent to renew the practices? Was it not a sort of treachery? Had not
                        Henriette, with her larger knowledge of the world, been perfectly well aware
                        that whatever might be said, the renewal of the meetings would be regarded
                        as encouragement? Did she not know that Hadria herself would feel implicated
                        by the concession?
                    Temperley's long silence had been misleading. The danger had crept up
                        insidiously. And had she not been treacherous to herself? She had longed for
                        companionship, for music, for something to break the strain of her wild,
                        lonely life. Knowing, or rather half-divining the risk, she had allowed
                        herself to accept the chance of relief when it came. Lack of experience had
                        played a large part in the making of to-night's dilemma. Hadria's own
                        strange mood was another ally to her lover, and for that, old Mrs. McPherson
                        and her reels were chiefly responsible. Of such flimsy trifles is the human
                        fate often woven.
                    “Tell me, did you ask your sister to —?”
                    “No, no,” Hubert interposed. “My sister knows of my hopes, and is anxious
                        that I should succeed.”
                    “I thought that she was helping you.”
                    “She would take any legitimate means to help me,” said Hubert. “You cannot
                        resent that. Ah, Hadria, why will you not listen to me?” He bent forward,
                        covering his face with his hands in deep dejection. His hope had begun to
                        wane.
                    “You know what I think,” said Hadria. “You know how I should act if I married. Surely that ought to
                        cure you of all—.”
                    He seized her hand.
                    “No, no, nothing that you may think could cure me of the hope of making you
                        my wife. I care for what you are, not for what you
                            think. You know how little I cling to the popular version
                        of the domestic story. I have told you over and over again that it offends
                        me in a thousand ways. I hate the bourgeois element in it. What have we really to disagree
                        about?”
                    He managed to be very convincing. He shewed that for a woman, life in her
                        father's house is far less free than in her own home; that existence could
                        be moulded to any shape she pleased. If Hadria hesitated only on this
                        account her last reason was gone. It was not fair to him. He had been
                        patient. He had kept silence for many months. But he could endure the
                        suspense no longer. He took her hand. Then suddenly she rose.
                    “No, no. I can't, I can't,” she cried desperately.
                    “I will not listen to denial,” he said following her. “I cannot stand a
                        second disappointment. You have allowed me to hope.”
                    “How? When? Never!” she exclaimed.
                    “Ah, yes, Hadria. I am older than you and I have more experience. Do you
                        think a man will cease to hope while he continues to see the woman he
                        loves?”
                    Hadria turned very pale.
                    “You seemed to have forgotten—your sister assured me—Ah, it was treacherous,
                        it was cruel. She took advantage of my ignorance, my craving for
                        companionship.”
                    “No, it is you who are cruel, Hadria, to make such accusations. I do not
                        claim the slightest consideration because you permitted those practices. But
                        you cannot suppose that my feeling has not been confirmed and strengthened
                        since I have seen you again. Why should you turn from me? Why may I not hope
                        to win you? If you have no repugnance to me, why should not I have a chance?
                        Hadria, Hadria, answer me, for heaven's
                        sake. Oh, if I could only understand what is in your mind!”
                    She would have found it a hard task to enlighten him. He had succeeded, to
                        some extent, in lulling her fears, not in banishing them, for a sinister
                        dread still muttered its warning beneath the surface thoughts.
                    The strength of Temperley's emotion had stirred her. The magic of personal
                        influence had begun to tell upon her. It was so hard not to believe when
                        some one insisted with such certainty, with such obvious sincerity, that
                        everything would be right. He seemed so confident that she could make him
                        happy, strange as it appeared. Perhaps after all—? And what a release from
                        the present difficulties. But could one trust? A confused mass of feeling
                        struggled together. A temptation to give the answer that would cause
                        pleasure was very strong, and beneath all lurked a trembling hope that
                        perhaps this was the way of escape. In apparent contradiction to this, or to
                        any other hope, lay a sense of fatality, a sad indifference, interrupted at
                        moments by flashes of very desperate caring, when suddenly the love of life,
                        the desire for happiness and experience, for the exercise of her power, for
                        its use in the service of her generation, became intense, and then faded
                        away again, as obstacles presented their formidable array before the mind.
                        In the midst of the confusion the thought of the Professor hovered vaguely,
                        with a dim distressing sense of something wrong, of something within her
                        lost and wretched and forlorn.
                    Mrs. Fullerton passed through the room on the arm of Mr. Gordon. How
                        delighted her mother would be if she were to give up this desperate attempt
                        to hold out against her appointed fate. What if her mother and Mrs. Gordon
                        and all the world were perfectly right and far-seeing and wise? Did it not
                        seem more likely, on the face of it, that they should be right,
                        considering the enormous majority of those who would agree with them, than
                        that she, Hadria, a solitary girl, unsupported by knowledge of life or by
                        fellow-believers, should have chanced upon
                        the truth? Had only Valeria been on her side, she would have felt secure,
                        but Valeria was dead against her.
                    “We are not really at variance, believe me,” Temperley pleaded. “You state
                        things rather more strongly than I do—a man used to knocking about the
                        world—but I don't believe there is any radical difference between us.” He
                        worked himself up into the belief that there never were two human beings so
                        essentially at one, on all points, as he and Hadria.
                    “Do you remember the debate that evening in the garret? Do you remember the
                        sentiments that scared your sister so much?” she asked.
                    Temperley remembered.
                    “Well, I don't hold those sentiments merely for amusement and recreation. I
                        mean them. I should not hesitate a moment to act upon them. If things grew
                        intolerable, according to my view of things, I should simply go away, though
                        twenty marriage-services had been read over my head. Neither Algitha nor I
                        have any of the notions that restrain women in these matters. We would brook
                        no such bonds. The usual claims and demands we would neither make nor submit
                        to. You heard Algitha speak very plainly on the matter. So you see, we are
                        entirely unsuitable as wives, except to the impossible men who might share
                        our rebellion. Please let us go back to the hall. They are just beginning to
                        dance another reel.”
                    “I cannot let you go back. Oh, Hadria, you can't be so unjust as to force me
                        to break off in this state of uncertainty. Just give me a word of hope,
                        however slight, and I will be satisfied.”
                    Hadria looked astonished. “Have you really taken in what I have just
                        said?”
                    “Every word of it.”
                    “And you realise that I mean it, mean it, with every fibre of
                        me.”
                    “I understand; and I repeat that I shall not be happy until you are my wife. Have what ideas you please, only
                        be my wife.”
                    She gazed at him in puzzled scrutiny. “You don't think I am really in
                        earnest. Let us go.”
                    “I know you are in earnest,” he cried, eagerly following her, “and still I
                        —”
                    At that moment Harold Wilkins came up to claim Hadria for a promised dance.
                        Temperley gave a gesture of impatience. But Harold insisted, and Hadria
                        walked with her partner into the hall where Mrs. Gordon was now playing a
                        sentimental waltz, with considerable poetic license as to time. As everyone
                        said: Mrs. Gordon played with so much expression.
                    Temperley stood about in corners watching Hadria. She was flushed and silent,
                        dancing with a still gliding movement under the skilful guidance of her
                        partner.
                    Temperley tried to win a glance as she passed round, but her eyes were
                        resolutely fixed on the floor.
                    Algitha followed her sister's movements uneasily. She had noticed her absence
                        during the last reel, and observed that Temperley also was not to be seen.
                        She felt anxious. She knew Hadria's emotional susceptibility. She knew
                        Temperley's convincing faculty, and also Hadria's uneasy feeling that she
                        had done wrong in allowing the practices to be resumed.
                    Henriette had not failed to notice the signs of the times, and she annoyed
                        Algitha beyond endurance by her obviously sisterly manner of addressing the
                        family. She had taken to calling the boys by their first names.
                    Fred shared his sister's dislike to Henriette. “Tact!” he cried with a snort,
                        “why a Temperley rushes in where a bull in a china-shop would fear to
                        tread!”
                    Algitha saw that Hubert was again by Hadria's side before the evening was
                        out. The latter looked white, and she avoided her sister's glance. This last
                        symptom seemed to Algitha the worst.
                    “What's the matter with Hadria?” asked Fred, “she will scarcely speak to me.
                        I was just telling her the best joke I've heard this year, and, will you
                        believe me, she didn't see the point! Yes,
                        you may well stare! I tried again and she gave a nervous giggle I am
                        relating to you the exact truth. Do any of the epidemics come on like
                        that?”
                    “Yes, one of the worst,” said Algitha gloomily. Fred glared enquiry.
                    “I am afraid she has been led into accepting Hubert Temperley.”
                    Fred opened his mouth and breathed deep. “Stuff! Hadria would as soon think
                        of selling her soul to the devil.”
                    “Oh, she is quite capable of that too,” said Algitha, shaking her head.
                    “Well, I'm blowed,” cried Fred.
                    Not long after this, the guests began to disperse. Mrs. Gordon and her party
                        were among the last to leave, having a shorter distance to go.
                    Hubert Temperley was quiet and self-possessed, but Algitha felt sure that she
                        detected a look of suppressed exultation in his demeanour, and something
                        odiously brotherly in his mode of bidding them all good night.
                    When everyone had left, and the family were alone, they gathered round the
                        hall fire for a final chat, before dispersing for the night.
                    “What a delightful evening we have had, Mrs. Fullerton,” said Miss Temperley.
                        “It was most picturesque and characteristic. I shall always remember the
                        charm and kindliness of Scottish hospitality.”
                    “And I,” said Ernest, sotto voce to
                        Algitha, “shall always remember the calm and thoroughness of English
                        cheek!”
                    “Why, we had almost forgotten that the New Year is just upon us,” exclaimed
                        Mr. Fullerton. The first stroke of twelve began to sound almost as he spoke.
                        He threw up the window and disclosed a night brilliant with stars. (“And
                        under us graves,” said Hadria to herself.)
                    They all crowded up, keeping silence as the slow strokes of the clock told
                        the hour.
                    “A Happy New Year to all!” cried Mr. Fullerton heartily.
                
            
            
            
                Part II.
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    
                        
                            
                                “...when the steam
                                Floats up from those dim fields about the homes
                                Of happy men that have the power to die.”
                            
                            Tithonius, TENNYSON.
                        
                    
                    A COUNTRYMAN with stooping gait touched his cap and bid good-day to
                        a young woman who walked rapidly along the crisp high road, smiling a
                        response as she passed.
                    The road led gradually upward through a country blazing with red and orange
                        for rolling miles, till the horizon closed in with the far-off blue of
                        English hills.
                    The old man slowly turned to watch the wayfarer, whose quick step and the
                        look in her eyes of being fixed on objects beyond their owner's immediate
                        ken, might have suggested to the observant, inward perturbation. The lissom,
                        swiftly moving figure was almost out of sight before the old man slowly
                        wheeled round and continued on his way towards the hamlet of Craddock Dene,
                        that lay in the valley about a mile further on. Meanwhile the young woman
                        was speeding towards the village of Craddock on the summit of the gentle
                        slope before her. A row of broad-tiled cottages came in sight, and on the
                        hill-side the vicarage among trees, and a grey stone church which had seen
                        many changes since its tower first looked out from the hill-top over the
                        southern counties.
                    The little village seemed as if it had forgotten to change with the rest of
                        the country, for at least a hundred years. The spirit of the last century lingered in its quiet
                        cottages, in the little ale-house with half-obliterated sign, in its air of
                        absolute repose and leisure. There was no evidence of contest
                        anywhere—except perhaps in a few mouldy advertisements of a circus and of a
                        remarkable kind of soap, that were half peeling off a moss-covered wall.
                        There were not even many indications of life in the place. The sunshine
                        seemed to have the village street to itself. A couple of women stood
                        gossiping over the gate of one of the cottages. They paused in their talk as
                        a quick step sounded on the road.
                    “There be Mrs. Temperley again!” one matron exclaimed. “Why this is the
                        second time this week, as she's come and sat in the churchyard along o' the
                        dead. Don't seem nat'ral to my thinking.”
                    Mrs. Dodge and Mrs. Gullick continued to discuss this gloomy habit with
                        exhaustive minuteness, involving themselves in side issues regarding the
                        general conduct of life on the part of Mrs. Temperley, that promised solid
                        material for conversation for the next week. It appeared from the
                        observations of Mrs. Gullick, whose husband worked on Lord Engleton's model
                        farm, that about five years ago Mr. Temperley had rented the Red House at
                        Craddock Dene, and had brought his new wife to live there. The Red House
                        belonged to Professor Fortescue, who also owned the Priory, which had stood
                        empty, said Mrs. Gullick, since that poor Mrs. Fortescue killed herself in
                        the old drawing-room. Mr. Temperley went every day to town to attend to his
                        legal business, and returned by the evening train to the bosom of his
                        family. That family now consisted in his wife and two small boys; pretty
                        little fellows, added Mrs. Dodge, the pride of their parents' hearts; at
                        least, so she had heard Mr. Joseph Fleming say, and he was intimate at the
                        Red House. Mrs. Gullick did not exactly approve of Mrs. Temperley. The Red
                        House was not, it would seem, an everflowing fount of sustaining port wine
                        and spiritually nourishing literature. The moral evolution of the village
                        had proceeded on those lines. The prevailing feeling was vaguely hostile; neither Mrs. Gullick nor Mrs. Dodge
                        exactly knew why. Mrs. Dodge said that her husband (who was the sexton and
                        gravedigger) had found Mrs. Temperley always ready for a chat. He spoke well
                        of her. But Dodge was not one of many. Mrs. Temperley was perhaps too
                        sensitively respectful of the feelings of her poorer neighbours to be very
                        popular among them. At any rate, her habits of seclusion did not seem to
                        village philosophy to be justifiable in the eyes of God or man. Her apparent
                        fondness for the society of the dead also caused displeasure. Why she went
                        to the churchyard could not be imagined: one would think she had a family
                        buried there, she who was, “as one might say, a stranger to the place,” and
                        could not be supposed to have any interest in the graves, which held for her
                        nor kith nor kin!
                    Mrs. Temperley, however, appeared to be able to dispense with this element of
                        attraction in the “grassy barrows.” She and a company of youthful
                        Cochin-China fowls remained for hours among them, on this cheerful morning,
                        and no observer could have determined whether it was the graves or the fowls
                        that riveted her attention. She had perched herself on the stile that led
                        from the churchyard to the fields: a slender figure in serviceable russet
                        and irresponsible-looking hat, autumn-tinted too, in sympathy with the
                        splendid season. In her ungloved left hand, which was at once sensitive and
                        firm, she carried a book, keeping a forefinger between the pages to mark a
                        passage.
                    Her face bore signs of suffering, and at this moment, a look of baffled and
                        restless longing, as if life had been for her a festival whose sounds came
                        from a hopeless distance. Yet there was something in the expression of the
                        mouth, that suggested a consistent standing aloof from herself and her
                        desires. The lines of the face could never have been drawn by mere
                        diffusive, emotional habits. Thought had left as many traces as feeling in
                        the firm drawing. The quality of the face was of that indefinable kind that
                        gives to all characteristic things their peculiar power over the
                            imagination. The more powerful the
                        quality, the less can it be rendered into terms. It is the one marvellous,
                        remaining, musical fact not to he defined that makes the Parthenon, or some
                        other masterpiece of art, translate us to a new plane of existence, and
                        inspire, for the time being, the pessimist with hope and the sceptic with
                        religion.
                    The Cochin-Chinas pecked about with a contented mien among the long grass,
                        finding odds and ends of nourishment, and here and there eking out their
                        livelihood with a dart at a passing fly. Their long, comic, tufted legs,
                        which seemed to form a sort of monumental pedestal whereon the bird itself
                        was elevated, stalked and scratched about with an air of industrious
                        serenity.
                    There were few mornings in the year which left unstirred the grass which grew
                        long over the graves, but this was one of the few. Each blade stood up still
                        and straight, bearing its string of dewdrops. There were one or two village
                        sounds that came subdued through the sunshine. The winds that usually
                        haunted the high spot had fallen asleep, or were lying somewhere in ambush
                        among the woodlands beyond.
                    The look of strain had faded from the face of Mrs. Temperley, leaving only an
                        expression of sadness. The removal of all necessity for concealing thought
                        allowed her story to write itself on her face. The speculative would have
                        felt some curiosity as to the cause of a sadness in one seemingly so well
                        treated by destiny. Neither poverty nor the cares of great wealth could have
                        weighed upon her spirit; she had beauty, and a quality more attractive than
                        beauty, which must have placed many things at her command; she had evident
                        talent—her very attitude proclaimed it—and the power over Fortune that
                        talent ought to give. Possibly, the observer might reflect, the gift was of
                        that kind which lays the possessor peculiarly open to her outrageous slings
                        and arrows. Had Mrs. Temperley shown any morbid signs of self-indulgent
                        emotionalism the problem would have been simple enough but this was not the
                        case.
                    
                    The solitude was presently broken by the approach of an old man laden with
                        pickaxe and shovel. He remarked upon the fineness of the day, and took up
                        his position at a short distance from the stile, where the turf had been
                        cleared away in a long-shaped patch. Here, with great deliberation he began
                        his task. The sound of his steady strokes fell on the stillness. Presently,
                        the clock from the grey tower gave forth its announcement—eleven. One by
                        one, the slow hammer sent the waves of air rolling away, almost visibly,
                        through the sunshine, their sound alternating with the thud of the pickaxe,
                        so as to produce an effect of intentional rhythm. One might have fancied
                        that clock and pickaxe iterated in turn, “Time, Death! Time, Death! Time,
                        Death!” till the clock had come to the end of its tale, and then the pickaxe
                        went on alone in the stillness—“Death! Death! Death! Death!”
                    A smile, not easy to be accounted for, flitted across the face of Mrs.
                        Temperley.
                    The old gravedigger paused at last in his toil, leaning on his pickaxe, and
                        bringing a red cotton handkerchief out of his hat to wipe his brow.
                    “That seems rather hard work, Dodge,” remarked the onlooker, leaning her book
                        upright on her knee and her chin on her hand.
                    “Ay, that it be, mum; this clay's that stiff! Lord! folks is almost as much
                        trouble to them as buries as to them as bears 'em; it's all trouble
                        together, to my thinkin'.”
                    She assented with a musing nod.
                    “And when a man's not a troublin' o' some other body, he's a troublin' of
                        hisself,” added the philosopher.
                    “You are cursed with a clear-sightedness that must make life a burden to
                        you,” said Mrs. Temperley.
                    “Well, mum, I do sort o' see the bearin's o' things better nor most,” Dodge
                        modestly admitted. The lady knew, and liked to gratify, the gravedigger's
                        love of long-worded discourse.
                    “Some people,” she said, “are born contemplative, while others never reflect
                        at all, whatever the provocation.”
                    
                    “Yes'm, that's just it; folks goes on as if they was to live for ever,
                        without no thought o' dyin'. As you was a sayin' jus' now, mum, there's them
                        as contemflecs natural like, and there's them as is born without
                        provocation—”
                    “Everlastingly!” assented Mrs. Temperley with a sudden laugh. “You evidently,
                        Dodge, are one of those who strive to read the riddle of this painful earth.
                        Tell me what you think it is all about.”
                    Gratified by this appeal to his judgment, Dodge scratched his head, and leant
                        both brawny arms upon his pickaxe.
                    “Well, mum,” he said, “I s'pose it's the will o' th' Almighty as we is
                        brought into the world, and I don't say nothin' agin it —'t isn't my
                        place—but it do come over me powerful at times, wen I sees all the vexin' as
                        folks has to go through, as God A'mighty might 'a found somethin' better to
                        do with His time; not as I wants to find no fault with His ways, which is
                        past finding out,” added the gravedigger, falling to work again.
                    A silence of some minutes was broken by Mrs. Temperley's enquiry as to how
                        long Dodge had followed this profession.
                    “Nigh on twenty year, mum, come Michaelmas,” replied Dodge. “I've lain my
                        couple o' hundred under the sod, easy; and a fine lot o' corpses they was
                        too, take 'em one with another.” Dodge was evidently prepared to stand up
                        for the average corpse of the Craddock district against all competitors.
                    “This is a very healthy neighbourhood, I suppose,” observed Mrs. Temperley,
                        seemingly by way of supplying an explanation of the proud fact.
                    “Lord bless you, as healthy as any place in the kingdom. There wasn't one in
                        ten as was ill when he died, as one may say.”
                    “But that scarcely seems an unmixed blessing,” commented the lady musingly,
                        “to go off suddenly in the full flush of health and spirits; it would be so
                        discouraging.”
                    “Most was chills, took sudden,” Dodge explained; “chills is wot chokes up yer
                        churchyards for yer. If we has another
                        hard winter this year, we shall have a job to find room in here. There's one
                        or two in the village already, as I has my eye on, wot—”
                    “Was this one a chill?” interrupted Mrs. Temperley, with a nod towards the
                        new grave.
                    “Wot, this here? Lord bless you, no, mum. This here's our schoolmarm. Didn't
                        you never hear tell about her?” This damning proof of his
                        companion's aloofness from village gossip seemed to paralyse the
                        gravedigger.
                    “Why everybody's been a talkin' about it. Over varty, she war, and ought to
                        'a knowed better.”
                    “But, with advancing years, it is rare that people do get to
                        know better—about dying,” Mrs. Temperley suggested, in defence of the
                        deceased schoolmistress.
                    “I means about her conduc',” Dodge explained; “scand'lous thing. Why, she's
                        been in Craddock school since she war a little chit o' sixteen.”
                    “That seems to me a trifle dull, but scarcely scandalous,” Mrs. Temperley
                        murmured.
                    “...And as steady and respectable a young woman as you'd wish to see ...
                        pupil teacher she was, and she rose to be schoolmarm,” Dodge went on.
                    “It strikes me as a most blameless career,” said his companion. “Perhaps, as
                        you say, considering her years, she ought to have known better, but—”
                    “She sort o' belongs to the place, as one may say,” Dodge proceeded,
                        evidently quite unaware that he had omitted to give the clue to the
                        situation. “She's lived here all her life.”
                    “Then much may be forgiven her,” muttered Mrs. Temperley.
                    “And everybody respected of her, and the parson he thought a deal o' her, he
                        did, and used to hold her up as a sample to the other young women, and
                        nobody dreamt as she'd go and bring this here scandal on the place; nobody
                        knows who the man was, but it is said as there's someone
                            not twenty miles from here as knows more about it nor he
                        didn't ought to,” Dodge added with
                        sinister meaning. This dark hint conveyed absolutely no enlightenment to the
                        mind of Mrs. Temperley, from sheer lack of familiarity, on her part, with
                        the rumours of the district. Dodge applied himself with a spurt to his
                        work.
                    “When she had her baby, she was like one out of her mind,” he continued; “she
                        couldn't stand the disgrace and the neighbours talkin', and that. Mrs.
                        Walker she went and saw her, and brought her nourishin' things, and kep' on
                        a-telling her how she must try and make up for what she had done, and repent
                        and all that; but she never got up her heart again like, and the poor soul
                        took fever from grievin', the doctor says, and raved on dreadful, accusin'
                        of somebody, and sayin' he'd sent her to hell; and then Wensday morning, ten
                        o'clock, she died. Didn't you hear the passing bell a-tolling, mum?”
                    “Yes, the wind brought it down the valley; but I did not know whom it was
                        tolling for.”
                    “That's who it was,” said Dodge.
                    “This is an awfully sad story,” cried Mrs. Temperley.
                    Dodge ran his fingers through his hair judicially. “I don't hold with them
                        sort o' goings on for young women,” he observed.
                    “Do you hold with them for young men?”
                    Dodge puckered up his face into an odd expression of mingled reflection and
                        worldly wisdom. “You can't prevent young fellers bein' young fellers,” he at
                        length observed.
                    “It seems almost a pity that being young fellows should also mean being
                        blackguards,” observed Mrs. Temperley calmly.
                    “Well, there's somethin' to be said for that way o' lookin' at it,” Dodge was
                        startled into agreeing.
                    “I suppose she gets all the blame of the thing,” the lady went
                        on, with quiet exasperation. Dodge seemed thrown off his bearings.
                    “Everybody in Craddock was a-talking about it, as was only to be expected,”
                        said the gravedigger. “Well, well, we're all sinners. Don't do to be too
                        hard on folks. 'Pears sad like after keepin' 'spectable for all them years
                        too—sort o' waste.”
                    
                    Mrs. Temperley gave a little laugh, which seemed to Dodge rather
                        eccentric.
                    “Who is looking after the baby??” she asked.
                    “One of the neighbours, name o' Gullick, as her husband works for Lord
                        Engleton, which she takes in washing,” Dodge comprehensively explained.
                    “Had its mother no relatives?”
                    “Well, she had an aunt down at Southampton, I've heard tell, but she didn't
                        take much notice of her, not she didn't. Her mother only died
                        last year, took off sudden before her daughter could get to her.”
                    “Your schoolmistress has known trouble,” observed Mrs. Temperley. “Had she no
                        one, no sister, no friend, during all this time that she could turn to for
                        help or counsel?”
                    “Not as I knows of,” Dodge replied.
                    There was a long pause, during which the stillness seemed to weigh upon the
                        air, as if the pressure of Fate were hanging there with ruthless
                        immobility.
                    “She ain't got no more to suffer now,” Dodge remarked, nodding with an aspect
                        of half apology towards the grave. “They sleeps soft as sleeps here.”
                    “Good heavens, I hope so!” Mrs. Temperley exclaimed.
                    The grave had made considerable progress before she descended from the stile
                        and prepared to take her homeward way. On leaving, she made Dodge come with
                        her to the gate, and point out the red-roofed cottage covered with monthly
                        roses and flaming creeper, where the schoolmistress had passed so many
                        years, and where she now lay with her work and her days all over, in the
                        tiny upper room, at whose latticed window the sun used to wake her on summer
                        mornings, or the winter rain pattered dreary prophecies of the tears that
                        she would one day shed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    “IF you please, ma'am, the cook says as the meat hasn't come for
                        lunch, and what is she to do?”
                    “Without,” replied Mrs. Temperley automatically.
                    The maid waited for more discreet directions. She had given a month's notice
                        that very morning, because she found Craddock Dene too dull.
                    “Thank goodness, that barbarian is going!” Hubert had exclaimed.
                    “We shall but exchange a Goth for a Vandal,” his wife replied.
                    Mrs. Temperley gazed intently at her maid, the light of intelligence
                        gradually dawning in her countenance. “Is there anything else in the house,
                        Sapph—Sophia?”
                    “No, ma'am,” replied Sophia.
                    “Oh, tell the cook to make it into a fricassee, and be sure it is well
                        flavoured.” The maid hesitated, but seeing from the wandering expression of
                        her employer's eye that her intellect was again clouded over, she retired to
                        give the message to the cook—with comments.
                    The library at the Red House was the only room that had been radically
                        altered since the days of the former tenants, whose taste had leant towards
                        the florid rather than the classic. The general effect had been toned down,
                        but it was impossible to disguise the leading motive; or what Mrs. Temperley
                        passionately described as its brutal vulgarity. The library alone had been
                        subjected to peine forte et dure. Mrs.
                        Temperley said that it had been purified by suffering. By dint of tearing
                        down and dragging out offending objects (“such a pity!” cried the
                        neighbours) its prosperous and complacent
                        absurdity had been humbled. Mrs. Temperley retired to this refuge after her
                        encounter with Sophia. That perennially aggrieved young person entered
                        almost immediately afterwards and announced a visitor, with an air that
                        implied—“She'll stay to lunch; see if she don't, and what'll you do then?
                        Yah!”
                    The pronunciation of the visitor's name was such, that, for the moment, Mrs.
                        Temperley did not recognize it as that of Miss Valeria Du Prel.
                    She jumped up joyfully. “Ah, Valeria, this is delightful!”
                    The visit was explained after a characteristic fashion. Miss Du Prel realized
                        that over two years had passed since she had seen Hadria, and moreover she
                        had been seized with an overwhelming longing for a sight of country fields
                        and a whiff of country air, so she had put a few things together in a
                        handbag, which she had left at Craddock station by accident, and come down.
                        Was there anyone who could go and fetch her handbag? It was such a nuisance;
                        she laid it down for a moment to get at her ticket—she never could find her
                        pocket, dressmakers always hid them in such an absurd way; could Hadria
                        recommend any dressmaker who did not hide pockets? Wasn't it tiresome? She
                        had no time-table, and so she had gone to the station that morning and
                        waited till a Craddock train started, and by this arrangement it had come to
                        pass that she had spent an hour and a half on the platform: she did not
                        think she ever had such an unpleasant time; why didn't they have trains
                        oftener? They did to Putney.
                    Mrs. Temperley sat down and laughed. Whereupon the other's face lightened and
                        she joined in the laugh at her own expense, settling into the easy chair
                        that her hostess had prepared for her, with a gesture of helplessness and
                        comfort.
                    “Well, in spite of that time at the station, I'm glad I came. It seems so
                        long since I have seen you, dear Hadria, and the last time you know you were
                        very unhappy, almost mad—”
                    “Yes, yes; never mind about that,” interposed Mrs. Temperley hastily, setting
                        her teeth together.
                    
                    “You take things too hard, too hard,” said Miss Du Prel. “I used to think
                            I was bad in that way, but I am phlegmatic compared with
                        you. One would suppose that—”
                    “Valeria, don't, don't, don't,” cried Mrs. Temperley. “I can't stand it.” Her
                        teeth were still set tight and hard, her hands were clenched.
                    “Very well, very well. Tell me what you have been making of this ridiculous
                        old world, where everything goes wrong and everybody is stupid or wicked, or
                        both.”
                    Mrs. Temperley's face relaxed a little, though the signs of some strong
                        emotion were still visible.
                    “Well, to answer the general by the particular, I have spent the morning,
                        accompanied by a nice young brood of Cochin-China fowls, in Craddock
                        churchyard.”
                    “Oh, I hate a churchyard,” exclaimed Miss Du Prel, with a shudder. “It makes
                        one think of the hideous mockery of life, and the more one would like to
                        die, the worse seems the brutality of death and his hideous accompaniments.
                        It is such a savage denial of all human aspirations and affections and
                        hopes. Ah, it is horrible!” The sharply-outlined face grew haggard and
                        white, as its owner crouched over the fire.
                    “Heaven knows! but it was very serene and very lovely up there this
                        morning.”
                    “Ah!” exclaimed Valeria with a burst of strange enthusiasm and sadness, that
                        revealed all the fire and yearning and power that had raised her above her
                        fellows in the scale of consciousness, with the penalty of a life of
                        solitude and of sorrow.
                    “Surely it is not without meaning that the places of the dead are the
                        serenest spots on earth,” said Mrs. Temperley. “If I could keep myself in
                        the mood that the place induces, I think I should not mind anything very
                        much any more. The sunshine seems to rest more tenderly there than
                        elsewhere, and the winds have a reverence for the graves, as if they felt it
                        time that the dead were left in peace—the ‘happier dead,’ as poor immortal
                        Tithonius calls them, who has not the gift of death. And the grey old tower
                        and the weather stains on the stones;
                        there is a conspiracy of beauty in the place, that holds one as one is held
                        by music.”
                    “Ah! I know the magic of these things; it tempts one to believe at times that
                        Nature is not all blind and unpitying. But that is a delusion:
                        if there were any pity in Nature, the human spirit would not be dowered with
                        such infinite and terrible longings and such capacities and dreams and
                        prayers and then—then insulted with the mockery of death and
                        annihilation.”
                    “If there should be no Beyond,” muttered Mrs. Temperley.
                    “That to me is inconceivable. When we die we fall into an eternal sleep.
                        Moreover, I can see no creed that does not add the fear of future torments
                        to the certainties of these.”
                    Mrs. Temperley was seized with a bitter mood. “You should cultivate faith,”
                        she said; “it acts the part of the heading ‘Sundries omitted’ in one's
                        weekly accounts; one can put down under it everything that can't be
                        understood—but you don't keep weekly accounts, so it's no use pointing out
                        to you the peace that comes of that device.”
                    The entrance of Sophia with firewood turned the current of conversation.
                        “Good heavens! I don't think we have anything for lunch!” Mrs. Temperley
                        exclaimed. “Are you very hungry? What is to be done? It was the
                        faithlessness of our butcher that disturbed the serenity of my mood this
                        morning. Perhaps the poor beast whose carcase we were intending to devour
                        will feel serene instead of me: but, alas! I fear he has been slaughtered
                            quand même. That is one of the
                        unsatisfactory things about life: that all its worst miseries bring good to
                        no one. One may deny oneself, but not a living thing is necessarily the
                        better for it—generally many are the worse. The wheels of pain go turning
                        day by day, and the gods stand aloof—they will not help us, nor will they
                        stay the ‘wild world’ in its course. No, no,” added Mrs. Temperley with a
                        laugh, “I am not tired of life, but I am tired with it; it
                        won't give me what I want. That is perhaps because I want so much.”
                    
                    The sound of male footsteps in the hall broke up the colloquy.
                    “Good heavens! Hubert has brought home a crowd of people to lunch,” exclaimed
                        Hadria, “a thing he scarcely ever does. What fatality can have induced him
                        to choose to-day of all others for this orgy of hospitality?”
                    “Does the day matter?” enquired Valeria, astonished at so much emotion.
                    “Does the day matter! Oh irresponsible question of the unwedded!
                        When I tell you the butcher has not sent the meat.”
                    “Oh ... can't one eat fish?” suggested Miss Du Prel.
                    Hadria laughed and opened the door.
                    “My dear, I have brought Fleming home to lunch.”
                    “Thank heaven, only one!”
                    Temperley stared.
                    “I could not conveniently have brought home several,” he said.
                    “I thought you would be at least seven,” cried the mistress of the house,
                        “and with all the pertinacity of Wordsworth's little girl.”
                    “What do you mean, if one may ask for simple English?”
                    “Merely that that intolerable Sanders has broken his word—hinc illæ lacrimæ.”
                    Hubert Temperley turned away in annoyance. He used to be amused by his wife's
                        flippancy before her marriage, but he had long since grown to dislike it. He
                        retired to get out some wine, while Hadria went forward to welcome the
                        guest, who now came in from the garden, where he had lingered to talk to the
                        children.
                    “I am delighted to see you, Mr. Fleming; but I am grieved to say that we have
                        unluckily only a wretched luncheon to give you, and after your long walk
                        over the fields too! I am so sorry. The fact is we are left,
                        this morning, with a gaping larder, at the mercy of a haughty and inconstant
                        butcher, who grinds down his helpless dependents without mercy, over- bearing creature that he is. We must ask
                        you to be very tolerant.”
                    “Oh! please don't trouble about that; it doesn't matter in the least,” cried
                        Mr. Fleming, pulling at his yellowish whiskers. He was a man of about
                        five-and-thirty, of medium height, dressed in knickerbockers and Norfolk
                        jacket that had seen some service.
                    “What is the difficulty?” asked Hubert.
                    “I was explaining to Mr. Fleming how inhospitably we are forced to treat him,
                        on account of that traitor Sanders.”
                    Hubert gave a gesture of annoyance.
                    “I suppose there is something cold in the house.”
                    “Pudding, perhaps,” said his wife hopelessly. “It is most unlucky.”
                    “My dear, surely there must be something cold that isn't pudding.”
                    “I fear, very little; but I will go and see the cook, though, alas! she is
                        not easy to inspire as regards her particular business. She is extremely
                        entertaining as a conversationalist, but I think she was meant for society
                        rather than the kitchen. I am sure society would be more diverting if she
                        were in it.”
                    Hadria was just turning to seek this misplaced genius, when she paused in the
                        doorway.
                    “By the way, I suppose Sapphira has—”
                    “Do try and cure yourself of the habit of calling the girl by that absurd
                        name, Hadria.”
                    “Oh, yes; but the name is so descriptive. She has told you of Miss Du Prel's
                        arrival?”
                    “She has told me nothing of the sort.”
                    Temperley did not look overjoyed. There had never been much cordiality
                        between him and Valeria since the afternoon when they had met at Dunaghee,
                        and found their sentiments in hopeless opposition.
                    Miss Du Prel took no interest in Hubert, though she admired his character.
                        She had every wish to make herself agreeable to him, but her efforts in that
                        direction were 
                            some-
                            somewhat
                         what neutralized by an incurable
                        absence of mind. If she was not interested, as Hadria said, she was seldom
                        affable.
                    Possibly Hubert's request to her, years ago at Dunaghee, to “think for a
                        moment” had not been forgiven.
                    “Where is she? Oh!—”
                    The exclamation was in consequence of Miss Du Prel's appearing at the door of
                        the library, whence she surveyed the group with absent-minded
                        intentness.
                    Valeria woke up with a start, and responded to Hubert's greeting in an
                        erratic fashion, replying tragically, to a casual enquiry as to her health,
                        that she had been frightfully ill.
                    “I thought I was dying. But one never dies,” she added in a disgusted tone,
                        whereat Hadria heartlessly laughed, and hurried the visitor upstairs to help
                        her to unpack.
                    “Valeria,” said Mrs. Temperley, while that lady was confusedly trying to
                        disentangle hat and hair, hat-pin and head, without involving the entire
                        system in a common ruin—“Valeria, we are not a remarkable people at Craddock
                        Dene. We may be worthy, we may have our good points, but we are not
                        brilliant (except the cook). Should Mr. Fleming fail to impress you as a
                        person of striking personality, I ask you, as a favour, not to
                        emblazon that impression on every feature: should he address to you a remark
                        that you do not find interesting, and it is quite conceivable that he may—do
                        not glare at him scornfully for a moment, and—”
                    Hadria was not allowed to finish the sentence.
                    “As if I ever did any such thing—and people are so dull,” said
                        Miss Du Prel.
                    A few “curried details,” as the hostess dejectedly described the fare, had
                        been supplemented with vegetables, fruit, and impromptu preparations of
                        eggs, and the luncheon was pronounced excellent and ample.
                    Miss Du Prel said that she hoped the butcher would always forget to send the
                        meat. She liked these imaginative meals.
                    Temperley purposely misunderstood her to say “imaginary meals,” and hoped that next time she came, Hadria
                        would not have an oratorio in course of composition. Miss Du Prel expressed
                        a fiery interest in the oratorio.
                    “I judge the presence of oratorio by the absence of food,” Temperley
                        explained suavely.
                    Hadria watched the encounter with a mingled sense of amusement and
                        discomfort.
                    Valeria was in no danger. To be morally crushed by an adversary, it is
                        necessary that one should be at least aware that the adversary is engaged in
                        crushing one: a consciousness that was plainly denied to Miss Du Prel. Many
                        a man far less able than Hubert had power to interest her, while he could
                        not even hold her attention. She used to complain to Professor Fortescue
                        that Temperley's ideas never seemed to have originated in his own brain:
                        they had been imported ready-made. Hubert was among the many who shrink and
                        harden into mental furrows as time passes. What he had thought at twenty, at
                        thirty-five had acquired sanctity and certainty, from having been the
                        opinion of Hubert Temperley for all those favoured years. He had no
                        suspicion that the views which he cherished in so dainty and scholarly a
                        fashion were simply an edition de luxe of
                        the views of everybody else. But his wife had made that discovery long ago.
                        He smiled at the views of everybody else: his own were put forth as
                        something choice and superior. He had the happy knack of being bourgeois with the air of an artist. If one
                        could picture one's grocer weighing out sugar in a Spanish cloak and
                        brigand's hat, it would afford an excellent symbol of his spiritual estate.
                        To be perfectly commonplace in a brilliantly original way, is to be notable
                        after all.
                    Mr. Fleming seemed puzzled by Miss Du Prel, at whom he glanced uneasily from
                        time to time, wondering what she would say next. At Craddock Dene, ladies
                        usually listened with a more or less breathless deference when Temperley
                        spoke. This new-comer seemed recklessly independent.
                    Mrs. Temperley endeavoured to lead the conversation in ways of peace, but Valeria was evidently on the
                        war-path. Temperley was polite and ironical, with undermeanings for Hadria's
                        benefit.
                    “If one asks impossible things of life, one is apt to be disappointed, I
                        fear,” he said serenely. “Ask for the possible and natural harvest of a
                        woman's career, and see if you don't get it.”
                    “Let a canary plead for its cage, in short, and its commendable prayer will
                        be answered!”
                    “If you like to put it thus ungraciously. I should say that one who makes the
                        most of his opportunities, as they stand, fares better than he who sighs for
                        other worlds to conquer.”
                    “I suppose that is what his relatives said to Columbus,” observed Miss Du
                        Prel.
                    “And how do you know they were not right?” he retorted.
                    Mrs. Temperley gave the signal to rise. “Let's go for a walk,” she suggested,
                        “the afternoon invites us. Look at it.”
                    The brilliant sunshine and the exercise brought about a more genial mood.
                        Only once was there anything approaching friction, and then it was Hadria
                        herself who caused it.
                    “Yes, we all flatter ourselves that we are observing life, when we are merely
                        noting the occasions when some musty old notion of ours happens, by chance,
                        to get fulfilled.”
                    Hubert Temperley at once roused Miss Du Prel's interest by the large stores
                        of information that he had to pour forth on the history of the district,
                        from its earliest times to the present. He recalled the days when these
                        lands that looked so smooth and tended had been mere wastes of marsh and
                        forest.
                    How quickly these great changes were accomplished! Valeria stood on the brow
                        of a wide corn-field, looking out over the sleeping country. A century,
                        after all, was not much more than one person's lifetime, yet in scarcely
                        nine of these—nine little troubled lifetimes—what incredible things had
                        occurred in this island of ours! How did it all come about? “Not assuredly,”
                        Valeria remarked with sudden malice, “by
                        taking things as they stood, and making the best of them with imbecile
                        impatience. If everyone had done that, what sort of an England should I have
                        had stretching before my eyes at this moment?”
                    “You would not have been here to see,” said Hadria, lazily rolling stones
                        down the hill with her foot. “We should all of us have been dancing round
                        some huge log-fire on the borders of a primeval forest, and instead of
                        browsing on salads, as we did to-day, we should be sustaining ourselves on
                        the unholy nourishment of boiled parent or grilled aunt.”
                    Mr. Temperley's refined appearance and manner seemed to raise an incarnate
                        protest against this revolting picture. For some occult reason, the
                        imagination of all was at work especially and exclusively on the figure of
                        that polished gentleman in war-paint and feathers, sporting round the
                        cauldron that contained the boiled earthly remains of his relations.
                    Mr. Fleming betrayed the common thought by remarking that it would be very
                        becoming to him.
                    “Ah! I wish we were all savages in feathers and war-paint,
                        dancing on the edge of some wild forest, with nothing but the sea and the
                        sky for limits!”
                    Miss Du Prel surprised her audience by this earnest aspiration.
                    “Do you feel inclined to revert?” Hadria enquired. “Because if so, I shall be
                        glad to join you.”
                    “I think there is a slight touch of the savage about Mrs.
                        Temperley,” observed Fleming pensively. “I mean, don't you know—of
                        course—.”
                    “You are quite right!” cried Valeria. “I have often noticed a sort of
                        wildness that crops up now and then through a very smooth surface. Hadria
                        may sigh for the woodlands, yet—!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    THE first break in the unity of the Fullerton family had occurred on
                        the occasion of Hadria's marriage. The short period that elapsed between
                        that memorable New-Year's-Eve and the wedding had been a painful experience
                        for Dunaghee. Hadria's conduct had shaken her brothers' faith in her and in
                        all womankind. Ernest especially had suffered disillusion. He had supposed
                        her above the ordinary, pettier weaknesses of humanity. Other fellows'
                        sisters had seemed to him miserable travesties of their sex compared with
                        her. (There was one exception only, to this rule.) But now, what was he to
                        think? She had shattered his faith. If she hadn't been “so cocksure of
                        herself,” he wouldn't have minded so much; but after all she had professed,
                        to go and marry, and marry a starched specimen like that!
                    Fred was equally emphatic. For a long time he had regarded it all as a joke.
                        He shook his head knowingly, and said that sort of thing wouldn't go down.
                        When he was at length convinced, he danced with rage. He became cynical. He
                        had no patience with girls. They talked for talking's sake. It meant
                        nothing.
                    Algitha understood, better than her brothers could understand, how Hadria's
                        emotional nature had been caught in some strange mood, how the eloquent
                        assurances of her lover might have half convinced her. Algitha's own
                        experience of proposals set her on the track of the mystery.
                    “It is most misleading,” she pointed out, to her scoffing brothers. “One
                        would suppose that marrying was the simplest thing in the world—nothing
                        perilous, nothing to object to about it. A
                        man proposes to you as if he were asking you for the sixth waltz, only his
                        manner is perfervid. And my belief is that half the girls who accept don't
                        realize that they are agreeing to anything much more serious.”
                    “The more fools they!”
                    “True; but it really is most bewildering. Claims, obligations, all the ugly
                        sides of the affair are hidden away; the man is at his best, full of
                        refinement and courtesy and unselfishness. And if he persuades the girl that
                        he really does care for her, how can she suppose that she cannot trust her
                        future to him—if he loves her? And yet she can't!”
                    “How can a man suppose that one girl is going to be different from every
                        other girl?” asked Fred.
                    “Different, you mean, from what he supposes every other girl to
                        be,” Algitha corrected. “It's his own look-out if he's such a fool.”
                    “I believe Hadria married because she was sick of being the family
                        consolation,” said Ernest.
                    “Well, of course, the hope of escape was very tempting. You boys don't know
                        what she went through. We all regret her marriage to Hubert Temperley—though
                        between ourselves, not more than he regrets it, if I am not
                        much mistaken—but it is very certain that she could not have gone on living
                        at home much longer, as things were.”
                    Fred said that she ought to have broken out after Algitha's fashion, if it
                        was so bad as all that.
                    “I think mother would have died if she had,” said the sister.
                    “Hadria was awkwardly placed,” Fred admitted.
                    “Do you remember that evening in the garret when we all told her what we
                        thought?” asked Ernest.
                    Nobody had forgotten that painful occasion.
                    “She said then that if the worst came to the worst, she would simply run
                        away. What could prevent her?”
                    “That wretched sister of his!” cried Algitha. “If it hadn't been for her, the
                        marriage would never have taken place. She
                        got the ear of mother after the engagement, and I am certain it was through
                        her influence that mother hurried the wedding on so. If only there had been
                        a little more time, it could have been prevented. And Henriette knew that.
                        She is as knowing—”
                    “I wish we had strangled her.”
                    “I shall never forget,” Algitha went on, “that night when Hadria was taken
                        with a fit of terror—it was nothing less—and wrote to break off the
                        engagement, and that woman undertook to deliver the letter and lost it,
                            on purpose I am always convinced, and then the favourable
                        moment was over.”
                    “What made her so anxious for the marriage beats me,” cried Ernest. “It was
                        not a particularly good match from a mercenary point of view.”
                    “She thought us an interesting family to marry into,” suggested Fred, “which
                        is undeniable.”
                    “Then she must be greatly disappointed at seeing so little of us!” cried
                        Ernest.
                    In the early days, Miss Temperley had stayed frequently at the Red House, and
                        Hadria had been cut off from her own family, who detested Henriette.
                    For a year or more, there had been a fair promise of a successful adjustment
                        of the two incongruous natures in the new conditions. They both tried to
                        keep off dangerous ground and to avoid collisions of will. They made the
                        most of their one common interest, although even here they soon found
                        themselves out of sympathy. Hubert's instincts were scholastic and lawful,
                        Hadria was disposed to daring innovation. Her bizarre compositions shocked
                        him painfully. The two jarred on one another, in great things and in small.
                        The halcyon period was short-lived. The dream, such as it was, came to an
                        end. Hubert turned to his sister, in his bewilderment and disappointment.
                        They had both counted so securely on the effect of experience and the
                        pressure of events to teach Hadria the desirable lesson, and they were
                            dismayed to find that, unlike other
                        women, she had failed to learn it. Henriette was in despair. It was she who
                        had brought about the ill-starred union. How could she ever forgive herself?
                        How repair the error she had made? Only by devoting herself to her brother,
                        and trying patiently to bring his wife to a wiser frame of mind.
                    A considerable time had elapsed, during which Hadria saw her brothers and
                        sister only at long intervals. Ernest had become estranged from her, to her
                        great grief. He was as courteous and tender in his manner to her as of yore,
                        but there was a change, not to be mistaken. She had lost the brother of her
                        girlhood for ever. While it bitterly grieved, it did not surprise her. She
                        acknowledged in dismay the inconsistency of her conduct. She must have been
                        mad! The universal similarity in the behaviour of girls, herself included,
                        alarmed her. Was there some external will that drove them all, in hordes, to
                        their fate? Were all the intricacies of event and circumstance, of their
                        very emotion, merely the workings of that ruthless cosmic will by which the
                        individual was hypnotised and ruled?
                    As usual at critical moments, Hadria had been solitary in her encounter with
                        the elements of Fate. There were conflicts that even her sister knew nothing
                        about, the bewilderments and temptations of a nature hampered in its action
                        by its own voluminous qualities and its caprice.
                    Her brothers supposed that in a short time Hadria would be “wearing bonnets
                        and a card-case, and going the rounds with an elegant expression like the
                        rest of them.”
                    How different were the little local facts of life—the little chopped-up life
                        that accumulates in odds and ends from moment to moment—from the
                        sun-and-smoke vision of early irresponsible days!
                    Mrs. Fullerton was pleased with the marriage, not merely because Hubert's
                        father, Judge Temperley, could secure for his son a prosperous career, but
                        because she was so thankful to see a strange, unaccountable girl like Hadria
                            settling quietly down, with a couple
                        of children to keep her out of mischief.
                    That was what it had come to! Perhaps they calculated a little too surely.
                        Possibly even two children might not keep her entirely out of mischief. Out
                        of what impulse of malice had Fate pitched upon the most essentially
                        mutinous and erratic of the whole brood, for the sedatest rôle? But perhaps Fate, too, had calculated
                        unscientifically. Mischief was always possible, if one gave one's mind to
                        it. Or was she growing too old to have the spirit for thorough-going
                        devilry? Youth seemed rather an affair of mental outlook than of years. She
                        felt twenty years older since her marriage. She wondered why it was that
                        marriage did not make all women wicked,—openly and actively so. If ever
                        there was an arrangement by which every evil instinct and every spark of the
                        devil was likely to be aroused and infuriated, surely the customs and
                        traditions that clustered round this estate constituted that dangerous
                        combination! Hardship, difficulty, tragedy could be faced, but not the
                        humiliating, the degrading, the contemptible. Hadria had her own particular
                        ideas as to what ought to be set down under these headings. Most women, she
                        found, ranked certain elements very differently, with lavish use of halos
                        and gilding in their honour, feeling perhaps, she hinted, the dire need of
                        such external decoration.
                    Good heavens! Did no other woman realize the insult of it all? Hadria knew so
                        few women intimately; none intimately enough to be convinced that no such
                        revolt lay smouldering beneath their smiles. She had a lonely assurance that
                        she had never met the sister-soul (for such there must be by the score, as
                        silent as she), who shared her rage and her detestations. Valeria, with all
                        her native pride, regarded these as proof of a big flaw in an otherwise
                        sound nature. Yet how deep, how passionately strong, these feelings were,
                        how gigantic the flaw!
                    What possessed people that they did not see what was so brutally clear? As young girls led forth
                        unconscious into the battle, with a bandage over their eyes, and cotton-wool
                        in their ears—yes, then it was inevitable that the! should see and hear
                        nothing. Had they been newly imported from the moon they could scarcely have
                        less acquaintance with terrestrial conditions; but afterwards, when
                        ruthlessly, with the grinning assistance of the onlookers, the facts of the
                        social scheme were cynically revealed, and the rôle imperiously allotted—with much admonition and moving
                        appeals to conscience and religion, and all the other aides-de-camp at
                        command—after all that, how in the name of heaven could they continue to
                        “babble of green fields”? Was it conceivable that among the thousands of
                        women to whom year after year the facts were disclosed, not one understood
                        and not one—hated?
                    A flame sprang up in Hadria's eyes. There must be other women somewhere at
                        this very moment, whose whole being was burning up with this bitter, this
                        sickening and futile hatred! But how few, how few! How vast was the meek
                        majority, fattening on indignity, proud of their humiliation! Yet how wise
                        they were after all. It hurt so to hate—to hate like this. Submission was an
                        affair of temperament, a gift of birth. Nature endowed with a serviceable
                        meekness those whom she designed for insult. Yet it might not be meekness so
                        much as mere brutal necessity that held them all in thrall—the inexorable
                        logic of conditions. Fate knew better than to assail the victim point blank,
                        and so put her on her guard. No; she lured her on gently, cunningly, closing
                        behind her, one by one, the doors of escape, persuading her, forcing her to
                        fasten on her own tethers, appealing to a thousand qualities, good and bad;
                        now to a moment's weakness or pity, now to her eternal fear of grieving
                        others (that was a well-worked vein!), now to her instinct of
                        self-sacrifice, now to grim necessity itself, profiting too by the
                        increasing discouragements, the vain efforts, the physical pain and horrible
                        weariness, the crowding of little difficulties, harassments, the troubles of
                        others—ah! how infinite were these! so that there was no interval for breathing, and scarcely time or
                        space to cope with the legions of the moment; the horizon was black with
                        their advancing hosts!
                    And this assuredly was no unique experience. Hadria remembered how she had
                        once said that if the worst came to the worst, it would be easy to run away.
                        To her inexperience desperate remedies had seemed so simple, so feasible—the
                        factors of life so few and unentwined. She had not understood how prolific
                        are our deeds, how an act brings with it a large and unexpected progeny,
                        which surround us with new influences and force upon us unforeseen
                        conditions. Yet frequent had been the impulse to adopt that girlish solution
                        of the difficulty. She had no picturesque grievances of the kind that would
                        excite sympathy. On the contrary, popular feeling would set dead against
                        her; she would be acting on an idea that nobody shared, not even her most
                        intimate friend.
                    Miss Du Prel had arrived at the conclusion that she did not understand
                        Hadria. She had attributed many of her peculiarities to her unique education
                        and her inexperience. Hadria had indeed changed greatly since her marriage,
                        but not in the manner that might have been expected. On the contrary, a
                        closer intimacy with popular social ideals had fired her with a more angry
                        spirit of rebellion. Miss Du Prel had met examples of every kind of
                        eccentricity, but she had never before come upon so marked an instance of
                        this particular type. Hadria's attitude towards life had suggested to Miss
                        Du Prel the idea of her heroine, Caterina. She remonstrated
                        with Hadria, assuring her that no insult towards women was intended in the
                        general scheme of society, and that it was a mistake to regard it in so
                        resentful a spirit.
                    “But that is just the most insulting thing about it,” Hadria exclaimed.
                        “Insult is so much a matter of course that people are surprised if one takes
                        umbrage at it. Read this passage from Aristotle that I came upon the other
                        day. He is perfectly calm and amiable, entirely unconscious of offence, when
                        he says that ‘a wife ought to shew herself even more obedient to the rein than if she entered the
                        house as a purchased slave. For she has been bought at a high price, for the
                        sake of sharing life and bearing children, than which no higher or holier
                        tie can possibly exist.’ (Henriette to the very life!)”
                    Miss Du Prel laughed, and re-read the passage from the Politics,
                        in some surprise.
                    “Do you suppose insult is deliberately intended in that graceful sentiment?”
                        asked Hadria. “Obviously not. If any woman of that time had blazed up in
                        anger at the well-meant speech, she would have astonished and grieved her
                        contemporaries. Aristotle doubtless professed a high respect for women who
                        followed his precepts—as men do now when we are obedient.”
                    “Of course, our society in this particular has not wandered far from the
                        Greek idea,” Miss Du Prel observed pensively.
                    Hadria pronounced the paradox, “The sharpness of the insult lies in its not
                        being intended.”
                    Miss Du Prel could not prevail upon her to modify the assertion. Hadria
                        pointed out that the Greeks also meant no offence in regarding their
                        respectable women as simple reproductive agents of inferior human
                        quality.
                    “And though our well-brought-up girls shrink from the frank speech, they do
                        not appear to shrink from the ideas of the old Greeks. They don't mind
                        playing the part of cows so long as one doesn't mention it.”
                    About eighteen months ago, the village had been full of talk and excitement
                        in consequence of the birth of an heir to the house of Engleton, Lady
                        Engleton's mission in life being frankly regarded as unfulfilled during the
                        previous three or four years, when she had disappointed the hopes of the
                        family. Hadria listened scornfully. In her eyes, the crowning indignity of
                        the whole affair was Lady Engleton's own smiling acceptance of the position,
                        and her complacent eagerness to produce the tardy inheritor of the property
                        and honours. This expression of sentiment had, by some means, reached the
                        Vicarage and created much consternation.
                    
                    Mrs. Walker asserted that it was right and Christian of the lady to desire
                        that which gave every one so much pleasure. “A climax of feminine
                        abjectness!” Hadria had exclaimed in Henriette's presence.
                    Miss Temperley, after endeavouring to goad her sister-in-law into the
                        expression of jubilant congratulations, was met by the passionate
                        declaration that she felt more disposed to weep than to rejoice, and more
                        disposed to curse than to weep.
                    Obviously, Miss Temperley had reason to be uneasy about her part in bringing
                        about her brother's marriage.
                    These sudden overflows of exasperated feeling had become less frequent as
                        time went on, but the neighbours looked askance at Mrs. Temperley. Though a
                        powder-magazine may not always blow up, one passes it with a grave
                        consciousness of vast stores of inflammable material lying somewhere within,
                        and who knows what spark might set the thing spouting to the skies?
                    When the occasional visitors had left, life in the village settled down to
                        its normal level, or more accurately, to its normal flatness as regarded
                        general contours, and its petty inequalities in respect to local detail. It
                        reminded Hadria of the landscape which stretched in quiet long lines to the
                        low horizon, while close at hand, the ground fussed and fretted itself into
                        minor ups and downs of no character, but with all the trouble of a mountain
                        district in its complexities of slope and hollow. Hadria suffered from a
                        gnawing home-sickness; a longing for the rougher, bleaker scenery of the
                        North.
                    The tired spirit translated the homely English country, so deeply reposeful
                        in its spirit, into an image of dull unrest. If only those broken, stupid
                        lines could have been smoothed out into the grandeur of a plain, Hadria
                        thought that it would have comforted her, as if a song had moved across it
                        with the long-stretching winds. As it was, to look from her window only
                        meant to find repeated the trivialities of life, more picturesque indeed,
                        but still trivialities. It was the estimable and domestic qualities of
                        Nature that presented themselves: Nature
                        in her most maternal and uninspired mood—Mother earth submissive to the
                        dictatorship of man, permitting herself to be torn, and wounded, and
                        furrowed, and harrowed at his pleasure, yielding her substance and her life
                        to sustain the produce of his choosing, her body and her soul abandoned
                        supine to his caprice. The sight had an exasperating effect upon Hadria. Its
                        symbolism haunted her. The calm, sweet English landscape affected her at
                        times with a sort of disgust. It was, perhaps, the same in kind as the far
                        stronger sensation of disgust that she felt when she first saw Lady Engleton
                        with her new-born child, full of pride and exultation. It was as much as she
                        could do to shake hands with the happy mother.
                    When Valeria expressed dismay at so strange a feeling Hadria had refused to
                        be treated as a solitary sinner. There were plenty of fellow-culprits, she
                        said, only they did not dare to speak out. Let Valeria study girls and judge
                        for herself.
                    Hadria was challenged to name a girl.
                    Well, Algitha for one. Hadria also suspected Marion Jordan, well-drilled
                        though she was by her dragoon of a mother.
                    Valeria would not hear of it. Marion Jordan! the gentlest, timidest, most
                        typical of young English girls! Impossible!
                    “I am almost sure of it, nevertheless,” said Hadria. “Oh, believe me, it is
                        common enough! Few grasp it intellectually perhaps, but thousands feel the
                        insult; of that I am morally certain.”
                    “What leads you to think so in Marion's case?”
                    “Some look, or tone, or word; something slight, but to my mind conclusive.
                        Fellow-sinners detect one another, you know.”
                    “Well, I don't understand what the world is coming to!” exclaimed Miss Du
                        Prel. “Where are the natural instincts?”
                    “Sprouting up for the first time perhaps,” Hadria suggested.
                    “They seem to be disappearing, if what you say has the slightest
                        foundation.”
                    
                    “Oh, you are speaking of only one kind of instinct. The others
                        have all been suppressed. Perhaps women are not altogether animals after
                        all. The thought is startling, I know. Try to face it.”
                    “I never supposed they were,” cried Valeria, a little annoyed.
                    “But you never made allowance for the suppressed instincts,” said Hadria.
                    “I don't believe they can be suppressed.”
                    “I believe they can be not merely suppressed, but killed past hope of
                        recovery. And I also believe that there may be, that there must
                        be, ideas and emotions fermenting in people's brains, quite different from
                        those that they are supposed and ordered to cherish, and that these heresies
                        go on working in secret for years before they become even suspected, and
                        then suddenly the population exchange confessions.”
                    “After that the Deluge!” exclaimed Miss Du Prel. “You describe the features
                        of a great revolution.”
                    “So much the better,” said Hadria; “and when the waters sink again, a nice
                        fresh clean world!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    ON the lawn of the Red House, a little group was collected under the
                        big walnut tree. The sunlight fell through the leaves on the singing
                        tea-kettle and the cups and saucers, and made bright patches on the figures
                        and the faces assembled round the tea-table.
                    Hubert Temperley had again brought his friend Joseph Fleming, in the forlorn
                        hope, he said, of being able to give him something to eat and drink. Ernest
                        and Algitha and Fred were of the party. They had come down from Saturday
                        till Monday. Ernest was studying for the Bar. Fred had entered a merchant's
                        office in the city, and hated his work cordially. Miss Du Prel was still at
                        the Red House.
                    Lady Engleton had called by chance this afternoon, and Mrs. Walker, the
                        vicar's wife, with two of her countless daughters, had come by invitation.
                        Mrs. Walker was a middle-aged, careworn, rather prim-looking woman. Lady
                        Engleton was handsome. Bright auburn hair waved back in picturesque fashion
                        from a piquant face, and constituted more than half her claim to beauty. The
                        brown eyes were bright and vivacious. The mouth was seldom quite shut. It
                        scarcely seemed worth while, the loquacious lady had confessed. She showed a
                        delicate taste in dress. Shades of brown and russet made a fine harmony with
                        her auburn hair, and the ivory white and fresh red of her skin.
                    She and Temperley always enjoyed a sprightly interchange of epigrams. Lady
                        Engleton had the qualities that Hubert had admired in Hadria before their
                        marriage, and she was entirely free from
                        the other characteristics that had exasperated him so desperately since that
                        hideous mistake that he had made. Lady Engleton had originality and
                        brilliancy, but she knew how to combine these qualities with perfect
                        obedience to the necessary conventions of life. She had the sparkle of
                        champagne, without the troublesome tendency of that delicate beverage to
                        break bounds, and brim over in iridescent, swelling, joyous foam, the
                        discreet edges of such goblets as custom might decree for the sunny vintage.
                        Lady Engleton sparkled, glowed, nipped even at times, was of excellent dry
                        quality, but she never frothed over. She always knew where to stop; she had
                        the genius of moderation. She stood to Hadria as a correct rendering of a
                        cherished idea stands to a faulty one. She made Hubert acutely feel his
                        misfortune, and shewed him his lost hope, his shattered ideal.
                    “Is the picture finished?” he enquired, as he handed Lady Engleton her
                        tea.
                    “What, the view from your field? Not quite. I was working at it when Claude
                        Moreton and Mrs. Jordan and Marion arrived, and I have been rather
                        interrupted. That's the worst of visitors. One's little immortal works do
                        get put aside, poor things.”
                    Lady Engleton broke into the light laugh that had become almost mechanical
                        with her.
                    “Your friends grudge the hours you spend in your studio,” said Temperley.
                    “Oh, they don't mind, so long as I give them as much time as they want,” she
                        said. “I have to apologise and compromise, don't you know, but, with a
                        little management, one can get on. Of course, society does ask a good deal
                        of attention, doesn't it? and one has to be so careful.”
                    “Just a little tact and thought,” said Temperley with a sigh.
                    Lady Engleton admired Algitha, who was standing with Ernest a little apart
                        from the group.
                    
                    “She is like your wife, and yet there is a singular difference in the
                        expression.”
                    Lady Engleton was too discreet to say that Mrs. Temperley lacked the look of
                        contentment and serenity that was so marked in her sister's face.
                    “Algitha is a thoroughly sensible girl,” said the brother-in-law.
                    “I hear you have not long returned from a visit to Mr. Fullerton's place in
                        Scotland, Mr. Temperley,” observed the vicar's wife when her host turned to
                        address her.
                    “Yes,” he said, “we have been there half the summer. The boys thoroughly
                        enjoyed the freedom and the novelty. The river, of course, was a source of
                        great joy to them, and of hideous anxiety to the rest of us.”
                    “Of course, of course,” assented Mrs. Walker. “Ah, there are the dear little
                        boys. Won't you come and give me a kiss, darling?”
                    “Darling” did what was required in a business-like manner, and stood by,
                        while the lady discovered in him a speaking likeness to his parents, to his
                        Aunt Algitha and his Uncle Fred, not to mention the portrait of his
                        great-grandfather, the Solicitor-General, that hung in the dining-room. The
                        child seemed thoroughly accustomed to be thought the living image of various
                        relations, and he waited indifferently till the list was ended.
                    “Do you know, we are half hoping that Professor Fortescue may be able to come
                        to us for a week or ten days?” said Lady Engleton. “We are so looking
                        forward to it.”
                    “Professor Fortescue is always a favourite,” remarked Mrs. Walker. “It is
                        such a pity he does not return to the Priory, is it not?—a great house like
                        that standing empty. Of course it is very natural after the dreadful event
                        that happened there”—Mrs. Walker lowered her voice discreetly—“but it seems
                        a sin to leave the place untenanted.”
                    Lady Engleton explained that there was some prospect of the house being let
                        at last to a friend and colleague of the
                        Professor. Mrs. Walker doubtless would remember Professor Theobald, who used
                        to come and stay at Craddock Place rather frequently some years ago, a big
                        man with beard and moustache, very learned and very amusing.
                    Mrs. Walker remembered him perfectly. Her husband had been so much interested
                        in his descriptions of a tour in Palestine, all through the scenes of the
                        New Testament. He was a great archæologist. Was he really coming to the
                        Priory? How very delightful. John would be so glad to hear it.
                    “Oh, it is not settled yet, but the two Professors are coming to us some time
                        soon, I believe, and Professor Theobald will look over the house and see if
                        he thinks it would be too unmanageably big for himself and his old mother
                        and sister. I hope he will take the place. He would bring a new and
                        interesting element into the village. What do you think of it, Mrs.
                        Temperley?”
                    “Oh, I hope the learned and amusing Professor will come,” she said. “The
                        worst of it is, from my point of view, that I shall have to give up my
                        practices there. Professor Fortescue allows me to wake the old piano from
                        its long slumbers in the drawing-room.”
                    “Oh, of course. Marion Jordan was telling me that she was quite startled the
                        other day, in crossing the Priory garden, to hear music stealing out of the
                        apparently deserted house. She had heard the country people say that the
                        ghost of poor Mrs. Fortescue walks along the terrace in the twilight, and
                        Marion looked quite scared when she came in, for the music seemed to come
                        from the drawing-room, where its mistress used to play so much after she was
                        first married. I almost wonder you can sit alone there in the dusk,
                        considering the dreadful associations of the place.”
                    “I am used to it now,” Mrs. Temperley replied, “and it is so nice and quiet
                        in the empty house. One knows one can't be interrupted—unless by
                        ghosts.”
                    “Well, that is certainly a blessing,” cried Lady Engleton. “I think I shall ask Professor Fortescue to allow
                        me also to go to the Priory to pursue my art in peace and quietness; a truly
                        hyperborean state, beyond the region of visitors!”
                    “There would be plenty of room for a dozen unsociable monomaniacs like
                        ourselves,” said Mrs. Temperley.
                    “I imagine you are a God-send to poor Mrs. Williams, the caretaker,” said
                        Joseph Fleming. “She is my gamekeeper's sister, and I hear that she finds
                        the solitude in that vast house almost more than she can stand.”
                    “Poor woman!” said Lady Engleton. “Well, Mr. Fleming, what are the sporting
                        prospects this autumn?”
                    He pulled himself together, and his face lighted up. On that subject he could
                        speak for hours.
                    Of Joseph Fleming his friends all said: The best fellow in the world. A
                        kinder heart had no man. He lived on his little property from year's end to
                        year's end, for the sole and single end of depriving the pheasants and
                        partridges which he bred upon the estate, of their existence. He was a
                        confirmed bachelor, living quietly, and taking the world as he found it
                        (seeing that there was a sufficiency of partridges in good seasons);
                        trusting that there was a God above who would not let the supply run short,
                        if one honestly tried to do one's duty and lived an upright life, harming no
                        man, and women only so much as was strictly honourable and necessary. He
                        spoke ill of no one. He was diffident of his own powers, except about sport,
                        wherein he knew himself princely, and cherished that sort of respect for
                        woman, thoroughly sincere, which assigns to her a pedestal in a sheltered
                        niche, and offers her homage on condition of her staying where she is put,
                        even though she starve there, solitary and esteemed.
                    “Do tell me, Mr. Fleming, if you know, who is that very handsome woman with
                        the white hair?” said Lady Engleton. “She is talking to Mrs. Walker. I seem
                        to know the face.”
                    “Oh, that is Miss Valeria Du Prel, the authoress of those books that Mrs.
                        Walker is so shocked at.”
                    
                    “Oh, of course; how stupid of me. I should like to have some conversation
                        with her.”
                    “That's easily managed. I don't think she and Mrs. Walker quite appreciate
                        each other.”
                    Lady Engleton laughed.
                    Mrs. Walker was anxiously watching her daughters, and endeavouring to keep
                        them at a distance from Miss Du Prel, who looked tragically bored.
                    Joseph Fleming found means to release her, and Lady Engleton's desire was
                        gratified. “I admire your books so much, Miss Du Prel, and I have so often
                        wished to see more of you; but you have been abroad for the last two years,
                        I hear.”
                    Lady Engleton, after asking the authoress to explain exactly what she meant
                        by her last book, enquired if she had the latest news of Professor
                        Fortescue. Lady Engleton had heard, with regret, that he had been greatly
                        worried about that troublesome nephew whom he had educated and sent to
                        Oxford.
                    “The young fellow had been behaving very badly,” Miss Du Prel said.
                    “Ungrateful creature,” cried Lady Engleton. “Running into debt I
                        suppose.”
                    Miss Du Prel feared that the Professor was suffering in health. He had been
                        working very hard.
                    “Oh, yes; what was that about some method of killing animals instantaneously
                        to avoid the horrors of the slaughter-house? Professor Theobald has been
                        saying what a pity it is that a man so able should waste his time over these
                        fads. It would never bring him fame or profit, only ridicule. Every man had
                        his little weakness, but this idea of saving pain to animals, Professor
                        Theobald said, was becoming a sort of mania with poor Fortescue, and one
                        feared that it might injure his career. He was greatly looked up to in the
                        scientific world, but this sort of thing of course—”
                    “Though it is nice of him in a way,” added Lady Engleton.
                    
                    “His weaknesses are nobler than most people's virtues,” said Miss Du
                        Prel.
                    “Then you number this among his weaknesses?”
                    Algitha, who had joined the group, put this question.
                    “I would rather see him working in the cause of humanity,” Miss Du Prel
                        answered.
                    Ernest surprised everyone by suggesting that possibly humanity was well
                        served, in the long run, by reminding it of the responsibility that goes
                        with power, and by giving it an object lesson in the decent treatment of
                        those who can't defend themselves.
                    “You must have sat at the Professor's feet,” cried Miss Du Prel, raising her
                        eyebrows.
                    “I have,” said Ernest, with a little gesture of pride.
                    Lady Engleton shook her head. “I fear he flies too high for ordinary
                        mortals,” she said; “and I doubt if even he can be quite consistent at that
                        altitude.”
                    “Better perhaps fly fairly high, and come down now and again to rest, if one
                        must, than grovel consistently and always,” observed Ernest.
                    Lady Engleton gave a little scream. “Mrs. Temperley, come to the rescue. Your
                        brother is calling us names. He says we grovel consistently and always.”
                    Ernest laughed, and protested. Lady Engleton pretended to be mortally
                        offended. Mrs. Temperley was sorry she could give no redress. She had
                        suffered from Ernest's painful frankness from her youth upwards.
                    The conversation grew discursive. Lady Engleton enjoyed the pastime of
                        lightly touching the edges of what she called “advanced” thought. She sought
                        the society of people like the two Professors and Miss Du Prel, in order to
                        hear what dreadful and delightful things they really would say. She read all
                        the new books, and went to the courageous plays that Mrs. Walker wouldn't
                        mention.
                    “Your last book, Caterina, is a mine of suggestion, Miss Du
                        Prel,” she said. “It raises one most interesting point that has puzzled me greatly. I don't know if you have
                        all read the book? The heroine finds herself differing in her view of life
                        from everyone round her. She is married, but she has made no secret of her
                        scorn for the old ideals, and has announced that she has no intention of
                        being bound by them.”
                    Mrs. Temperley glanced uneasily at Miss Du Prel.
                    “Accordingly she does even as she had said,” continued Lady Engleton. “She
                        will not brook that interference with her liberty which marriage among us
                        old-fashioned people generally implies. She refuses to submit to the attempt
                        that is of course made (in spite of a pre-nuptial understanding) to bring
                        her under the yoke, and so off she goes and lives independently, leaving
                        husband and relatives lamenting.”
                    The vicar's wife said she thought she must be going home. Her husband would
                        be expecting her.
                    “Oh, won't you wait a little, Mrs. Walker? Your daughters would perhaps like
                        a game of tennis with my brothers presently.”
                    Mrs. Walker yielded uneasily.
                    “But before Caterina takes the law into her own hands, in this
                        way,” Lady Engleton continued, “she is troubled with doubts. She sometimes
                        wonders whether she ought not, after all, to respect the popular standards
                        (notwithstanding the compact), instead of disturbing everybody by clinging
                        to her own. Now was it strength of character or obstinate egotism that
                        induced her to stick to her original colours, come what might? That is the
                        question which the book has stated but left unanswered.”
                    Miss Du Prel said that the book showed, if it showed anything, that one must
                        be true to one's own standard, and not attempt to respect an ideal in
                        practice that one despises in theory. We are bound, she asserted, to produce
                        that which is most individual within us; to be ourselves, and not a poor
                        imitation of someone else; to dare even apparent wrong-doing, rather than
                        submit to live a life of devotion to that which we cannot believe.
                    
                    Mrs. Walker suggested to her daughters that they might go and have a look at
                        the rose-garden, but the daughters preferred to listen to the
                        conversation.
                    “In real life,” said the practical Algitha, “Caterina would not
                        have been able to follow her idea so simply. Supposing she had had children
                        and complicated circumstances, what could she have done?”
                    Miss Du Prel thought that a compromise might have been made.
                    “A compromise by which she could act according to two opposite
                        standards?”
                    Valeria was impatient of difficulties. It was not necessary that a woman
                        should leave her home in order to be true to her conscience. It was the best
                        method in Caterina's case, but not in all.
                    Miss Du Prel did not explain very clearly what she meant. Women made too much
                        of difficulties, she thought. Somehow people had managed to
                        overcome obstacles. Look at—and then followed a list of shining
                        examples.
                    “I believe you would blame a modern woman who imitated them,” said Mrs.
                        Temperley. “These women have the inestimable advantage of being dead.”
                    “Ah, yes,” Lady Engleton agreed, with a laugh, “we women may be anything we
                        like—in the last century.”
                    “The tides of a hundred years or so sweeping over one's audacious deed,
                        soften the raw edges. Then it is tolerated in the landscape; indeed, it
                        grows mossy and picturesque.” Mrs. Temperley made this comparison.
                    “And then think how useful it becomes to prove that a daring deed
                            can be done, given only the necessary stuff in brain and
                        heart.”
                    Mrs. Walker looked at Algitha in dismay.
                    “One can throw it in the teeth of one's contemporaries,” added Algitha, “if
                        they fail to produce a dramatic climax of the same kind.”
                    Only,” said Mrs. Temperley, “if they do venture upon their own dreadful deed—the deed demanded by
                        their particular modern predicament—then we all shriek vigorously.”
                    “Oh, we shriek less than we used to,” said Lady Engleton. “It is quite a
                        relief to be able to retain one's respectability on easier terms.”
                    “In such a case as Miss Du Prel depicts? I doubt it. Caterina,
                        in real life, would have a lively story to tell. How selfish we should think
                        her! How we should point to the festoons of bleeding hearts that she had
                        wounded—a dripping cordon round the deserted home! No; I believe Miss Du
                        Prel herself would be horrified at her own Caterina if she came
                        upon her unexpectedly in somebody's drawing-room.”
                    There was a laugh.
                    “Of course, a great deal is to be said for the popular way of looking at the
                        matter,” Lady Engleton observed. “This fascinating heroine must have caused
                        a great deal of real sorrow, or at least she would have caused
                        it, were it not that her creator had considerably removed all relatives,
                        except a devoted couple of unorthodox parents, who are charmed at her
                        decision to scandalize society, and wonder why she doesn't do it sooner.
                        Parents like that don't grow on every bush.”
                    Mrs. Walker glanced nervously at her astonished girls.
                    Lady Engleton pointed out that had Caterina been situated in a
                        more ordinary manner, she would have certainly broken her parents' hearts
                        and embittered their last years, to say nothing of the husband and perhaps
                        the children, who would have suffered for want of a mother's care.
                    “But why should the husband suffer?” asked Algitha. “Caterina's
                        husband cordially detested her.”
                    “It is customary to regard the occasion as one proper for suffering,” said
                        Mrs. Temperley, “and every well-regulated husband would suffer
                        accordingly.”
                    “Clearly,” assented Lady Engleton. “When the world congratulates us we
                        rejoice, when it condoles with us we weep.”
                    “That at least, would not affect the children,” said Algitha. “I don't see
                        why of necessity they should suffer.”
                    
                    “Their share of the woe would be least of all, I think,” Mrs. Temperley
                        observed. “What ogre is going to ill-treat them? And since few of us know
                        how to bring up so much as an earth-worm reasonably, I can't see that it
                        matters so very much which particular woman looks after the children. Any
                        average fool would do.”
                    Mrs. Walker was stiffening in every limb.
                    “The children would have the usual chances of their class; neither more nor
                        less, as it seems to me, for lack of a maternal burnt-offering.”
                    Mrs. Walker rose, gathered her daughters about her, and came forward to say
                        good-bye. She was sure her husband would be annoyed if she did not return.
                        She retired with nervous precipitation.
                    “Really you will depopulate this village, Mrs. Temperley,” cried Lady
                        Engleton with a laugh; “it is quite dangerous to bring up a family within
                        your reach. There will be a general exodus. I must be going myself, or I
                        shan't have an orthodox sentiment left.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    HENRIETTE had secured Mrs. Fullerton for an ally, from the
                        beginning. When Hadria's parents visited the Red House, Miss Temperley was
                        asked to meet them, by special request. Henriette employed tact on a grand
                        scale, and achieved results in proportion. She was sorry that dear Hadria
                        did not more quickly recover her strength. Her health was not what it ought
                        to be. Mrs. Fullerton sighed. She vas ready to play into Miss Temperley's
                        hands on every occasion.
                    The latter had less success in her dealings with Miss Du Prel. She tried to
                        discover Hadria's more intimate feelings by talking her over with Valeria,
                        ignoring the snubs that were copiously administered by that indignant lady.
                        Valeria spoke with sublime scorn of this attempt.
                    “To try and pump information out of a friend! Why not listen at the key-hole,
                        and be done with it!”
                    Henriette's neat hair would have stood on end, had she heard Miss Du Prel fit
                        adjectives to her conduct.
                    “I have learnt not to expect a nice sense of honour from superior persons
                        with unimpeachable sentiments,” said Hadria.
                    “You are certainly a good hater!” cried Valeria, with a laugh.
                    “Oh, I don't hate Henriette; I only hate unimpeachable sentiments.”
                    The sentiments that Henriette represented had become, to Hadria, as the walls
                        of a prison from which she could see no means of escape.
                    She had found that life took no heed either of her ambitions or of her
                        revolts. “And so I growl,” she said. She might hate and chafe in secret to
                        her heart's content; external conformity was the one thing needful.
                    
                    “Hadria will be so different when she has children,” everyone had said. And
                        so she was; but the difference was alarmingly in the wrong direction.
                        Throughout history, she reflected, children had been the unfailing means of
                        bringing women into line with tradition. Who could stand against them? They
                        had been able to force the most rebellious to their knees. An appeal to the
                        maternal instinct had quenched the hardiest spirit of revolt. No wonder the
                        instinct had been so trumpeted and exalted! Women might harbour dreams and
                        plan insurrections; but their children—little ambassadors of the established
                        and expected—were argument enough to convince the most hardened sceptics.
                        Their helplessness was more powerful to suppress revolt than regiments of
                        armed soldiers.
                    Such were the thoughts that wandered through Hadria's mind as she bent her
                        steps towards the cottage near Craddock Church, where, according to the
                        gravedigger's account, the baby of the unhappy schoolmistress was being
                        looked after by Mrs. Gullick.
                    It would have puzzled the keenest observer to detect the unorthodox nature of
                        Mrs. Temperley's reflections, as she leant over the child, and made
                        enquiries as to its health and temperament.
                    Mrs. Gullick seemed more disposed to indulge in remarks on its mother's
                        conduct than to give the desired information; but she finally admitted that
                        Ellen Jervis had an aunt at Southampton who was sending a little money for
                        the support of the child. Ellen Jervis had stayed with the aunt during the
                        summer holidays. Mrs. Gullick did not know what was to be done. She had a
                        large family of her own, and the cottage was small.
                    Mrs. Temperley asked for the address of the aunt.
                    “I suppose no one knows who the father is? He has not acknowledged the
                        child!”
                    No; that was a mystery still.
                    About a week later, Craddock Dene was amazed by the news that Mrs. Temperley
                        had taken the child of Ellen Jervis under
                        her protection. A cottage had been secured on the road to Craddock, a
                        trustworthy nurse engaged, and here the babe was established, with the
                        consent and blessing of the aunt.
                    “You are the most inconsistent woman I ever met!” exclaimed Miss Du Prel.
                    “Why inconsistent?”
                    “You say that children have been the means, from time immemorial, of
                        enslaving women, and here you go and adopt one of your enslavers!”
                    “But this child is not legitimate.”
                    Valeria stared.
                    “Whatever the wrongs of Ellen Jervis, at least there were no laws written,
                        and unwritten, which demanded of her as a duty that she should become the
                        mother of this child. In that respect she escapes the ignominy reserved for
                        the married mother who produces children that are not even hers.”
                    “You do manage to ferret out the unpleasant aspects of our position!” Miss Du
                        Prel exclaimed. “But I want to know why you do this, Hadria. It is good of
                        you, but totally unlike you.”
                    “You are very polite!” cried Hadria. “Why should I not lay up store for
                        myself in heaven, as well as Mrs. Walker and the rest?”
                    “You were not thinking of heaven when you did this deed, Hadria.”
                    “No; I was thinking of the other place.”
                    “And do you hope to get any satisfaction out of your protégée?”
                    Hadria shrugged her shoulders.
                    “I don't know. The child is the result of great sorrow and suffering; it is
                        the price of a woman's life; a woman who offended the world, having lived
                        for nearly forty weary obedient years, in circumstances dreary enough to
                        have turned twenty saints into as many sinners. No; I am no Lady Bountiful.
                        I feel in defending this child—a sorry defence I know—that I am, in so far,
                        opposing the world and the system of things that I hate—. Ah!
                            how I hate it!”
                    
                    “Is it then hatred that prompts the deed?”
                    Hadria looked thoughtfully towards the church tower, in whose shadow the
                        mother of the babe lay sleeping.
                    “Can you ever quite unravel your own motives, Valeria? Hatred? Yes; there is
                        a large ingredient of hatred. Without it, probably this poor infant would
                        have been left to struggle through life alone, with a mill-stone round its
                        neck, and a miserable constitution into the bargain. I hope to rescue its
                        constitution. But that poor woman's story touched me closely. It is so hard,
                        so outrageous! The emptiness of her existence; the lack of outlet for her
                        affections; the endless monotony; and then the sudden new interest and food
                        for the starved emotions; the hero-worship that is latent in us all; and
                        then—good heavens!—for a touch of poetry, of romance in her life, she would
                        have been ready to believe in the professions of the devil himself—and this
                        man was a very good understudy for the devil! Ah! If ever I should meet
                        him!”
                    “What would you do?” Valeria asked curiously.
                    “Avenge her,” said Hadria with set lips.
                    “Easier said than done, my dear!”
                    Gossip asserted that the father of the child was a man of some standing, the
                        bolder spirits even accusing Lord Engleton himself. But this was conjecture
                        run wild, and nobody seriously listened to it.
                    Mrs. Walker was particularly scandalized with Mrs. Temperley's ill-advised
                        charity. Hadria had the habit of regarding the clergyman's wife as another
                        of society's victims. She placed side by side the schoolmistress in her
                        sorrow and disgrace, and the careworn woman at the Vicarage, with her eleven
                        children, and her shrivelled nature, poor and dead as an autumn leaf that
                        shivers before the wind. They had both suffered—so Mrs. Temperley dared to
                        assert—in the same cause. They were both victims of the same creed. It was a
                        terrible cultus, a savage idol that had devoured them both, as cruel and
                        insatiable as the brazen god of old, with his internal fires, which the
                        faithful fed devoutly, with shrinking girls and screaming children.
                    
                    “I still fail to understand why you adopt this child,” said Valeria. “My
                            Caterina would never have done it.”
                    “The little creature interests me,” said Hadria. “It is a tiny field for the
                        exercise of the creative forces. Every one has some form of active
                        amusement. Some like golf, others flirtation. I prefer this sort of
                        diversion.”
                    “But you have your own children to interest you, surely far more than this
                        one.”
                    Hadria's face grew set and defiant.
                    “They represent to me the insult of society—my own private and particular
                        insult, the tribute exacted of my womanhood. It is through them that I am to
                        be subdued and humbled. Just once in a way, however, the thing does not
                        quite ‘come off.’”
                    “What has set you on edge so, I wonder.”
                    “People, traditions, unimpeachable sentiments.”
                    “Yours are not unimpeachable at any rate!” Valeria cried
                        laughing. “Caterina is an angel compared with you, and yet my
                        publisher has his doubts about her.”
                    “Caterina would do as I do, I know,” said Hadria. “Those who are
                        looked at askance by the world appeal to my instincts. I shall be able to
                        teach this child, perhaps, to strike a blow at the system which sent her
                        mother to a dishonoured grave, while it leaves the man for whose sake she
                        risked all this, in peace and the odour of sanctity.”
                    Time seemed to be marked, in the sleepy village, by the baby's growth.
                        Valeria, who thought she was fond of babies, used to accompany Hadria on her
                        visits to the cottage, but she treated the infant so much as if it had been
                        a guinea-pig or a rabbit that the nurse was indignant.
                    The weeks passed in rapid monotony, filled with detail and leaving no mark
                        behind them, no sign of movement or progress. The cares of the house, the
                        children, left only limited time for walking, reading, correspondence, and
                        such music as could be wrung out of a crowded day. An effort on Hadria's
                        part, to make serious use of her musical talent had been frustrated. But a
                        pathetic, unquenchable hope always survived that presently, when this or that corner had been
                        turned, this or that difficulty overcome, conditions would be conquered and
                        opportunity arrive. Not yet had she resigned her belief that the most
                        harassing and wearying and unceasing business that a human being can
                        undertake, is compatible with the stupendous labour and the unbounded claims
                        of an artist's career. The details of practical life and petty duties
                        sprouted up at every step. If they were put aside, even for a moment, the
                        wheels of daily existence became clogged and then all opportunity was over.
                        Hope had begun to alternate with a fear lest that evasive corner should
                        never be turned, that little crop of interruptions never cease to turn up.
                        And yet it was so foolish. Each obstacle in itself was paltry. It was their
                        number that overcame one, as the tiny arrows of the Lilliputs overcame
                        Gulliver.
                    One of Hadria's best friends in Craddock Dene was Joseph Fleming, who had
                        become very intimate at the Red House during the last year or two. Hadria
                        used to tire of the necessity to be apparently rational (such was her own
                        version), and found it a relief to talk nonsense, just as she pleased, to
                        Joseph Fleming, who never objected or took offence, if he occasionally
                        looked surprised. Other men might have thought she was laughing at them, but
                        Joseph made no such mistake when Mrs. Temperley broke out, as she did now
                        and then, in fantastic fashion.
                    She was standing, one morning, on the little bridge over the stream that ran
                        at a distance of a few hundred yards from the Red House. The two boys were
                        bespattering themselves in the meadow below, by the water's verge. They
                        called up at intervals to their mother the announcement of some new
                        discovery of flower or insect.
                    Watching the stream sweeping through the bridge, she seemed the centre of a
                        charming domestic scene to Joseph Fleming, who chanced to pass by with his
                        dogs. He addressed himself to her maternal feelings by remarking what
                        handsome and clever boys they were.
                    
                    “Handsome and clever?” she repeated. “Is that all you can say,
                        Mr. Fleming? When you set about it, I think you might provide a little
                        better food for one's parental sentiment. I suppose you will go and tell
                        Mrs. Walker that her dozen and a half are all handsome and
                        clever too!”
                    “Not so handsome and clever as yours,” replied Mr. Fleming, a little aghast
                        at this ravenous maternal vanity.
                    “What wretched poverty of expression!” Hadria complained. “I ask for bread,
                        and truly you give me a stone.”
                    Joseph Fleming eyed his companion askance. “I—I admire your boys immensely,
                        as you know,” he said.
                    “Not enough, not enough.”
                    “What can I say more?”
                    “A mother has to find in her children all that she can hope to find in life,
                        and she naturally desires to make the most of them, don't you see?”
                    “Ah! yes, quite so,” said Joseph dubiously.
                    “Nobody, I suppose, likes to be commonplace all round; one must have some
                        poetry somewhere—so most women idealize their children, and if other people
                        won't help them in the effort, don't you see? it is most discouraging.”
                    “Are you chaffing, or what?” Joseph enquired.
                    “No, indeed; I am perilously serious.”
                    “I can well understand how a mother must get absorbed in her children,” said
                        Joseph. “I suppose it's a sort of natural provision.”
                    “Think of Mrs. Allan with her outrageous eight—all making mud-pies!” cried
                        Hadria; “a magnificent ‘natural provision!’ A small income, a small house,
                        with those pervasive eight. You know the stampede when one goes to call; the
                        aroma of bread and butter (there are few things more inspiring); the cook
                        always about to leave; Mrs. Allan with a racking headache. It is indeed not
                        difficult to understand how a mother would get absorbed in her children.
                        Why, their pinafores alone would become absorbing.”
                    “Quite so,” said Mr. Fleming. Then a little anxious to change the subject:
                        “Oh, by the way, have you heard that the
                        Priory is really to be inhabited at last? Professor Theobald has almost
                        decided to take it.”
                    “Really? that will be exciting for Craddock Dene. We shall have another
                        household to dissect and denounce. Providence watches over us all, I verily
                        believe.”
                    “I hope so,” Joseph replied gravely.
                    “Truly I hope so too,” Hadria said, no less seriously, “for indeed we need
                        it.”
                    Joseph was too simple to be greatly surprised at anything that Mrs. Temperley
                        might say. He had decided that she was a little eccentric, and that
                        explained everything; just as he explained instances of extraordinary
                        reasoning power in a dog by calling it “instinct.” Whatever Mrs. Temperley
                        might do was slightly eccentric, and had she suddenly taken it into her head
                        to dance a fandango on the public road, it would have merely put a little
                        extra strain on that word.
                    By dint of not understanding her, Joseph Fleming had grown to feel towards
                        Mrs. Temperley a genuine liking, conscious, in his vague way, that she was
                        kind at heart, however bitter or strange she might sometimes be in her
                        speech. Moreover, she was not always eccentric or unexpected. There would
                        come periods when she would say and do very much as her neighbours said and
                        did; looking then pale and lifeless, but absolutely beyond the reach of
                        hostile criticism, as her champion would suggest to carping neighbours.
                    Not the most respected of the ladies who turned up their disapproving noses,
                        was more dull or more depressing than Hadria could be, on occasion, as she
                        had herself pointed out; and would not this soften stony
                        hearts?
                    When she discovered that her kindly neighbour had been fighting her battles
                        for her, she was touched; but she asked him not to expend his strength on
                        her behalf. She tried in vain to convince him that she did not care to be
                        invited too often to submit to the devitalizing processes of social
                        intercourse, to which the families of the district shrank not from
                        subjecting themselves. If Joseph Fleming chanced to call at the Red House
                        after her return from one of these
                        entertainments, he was sure to find Mrs. Temperley in one of her least
                        comprehensible moods. But whatever she might say, he stood up for her among
                        the neighbours with persistent loyalty. He decked her with virtues that she
                        did not possess, and represented her to the sceptical district, radiant in
                        domestic glory. Hadria thus found herself in an awkwardly uncertain
                        position; either she was looked at askance, as eccentric, or she found
                        herself called upon to make good expectations of saintliness, such as never
                        were on land or sea.
                    Saintly? Hadria shook her head. She could imagine no one further from such a
                        condition than she was at present, and she felt it in her, to swing down and
                        down to the very opposite pole from that serene altitude. She admitted that,
                        from a utilitarian point of view, she was making a vast mistake. As things
                        were, Mrs. Walker and Mrs. Allan, laboriously spinning their ponderous
                        families on their own axes, in a reverent spirit, had chosen the better
                        part. But Hadria did not care. She would not settle down to
                        make the best of things, as even Algitha now recommended, “since there she
                        was, and there was no helping it.”
                    “I will never make the best of things,” she said. “I know
                        nothing that gives such opportunities to the Devil.”
                    Hadria had characteristically left the paradox unjustified.
                    “What do you mean?” asked Algitha. “Surely the enemy of good has most hold
                        over the discontented spirit.”
                    Hadria likened the contented to stagnant pools, wherein corruptions grow
                        apace. “It is only the discontented ocean that remains, for all its storms,
                        fresh and sane to the end.”
                    But though she said this, for opposition's sake perhaps, she had her doubts
                        about her own theory. Discontent was certainly the initiator of all
                        movement; but there was a kind of sullen discontent that stagnated and ate
                        inwards, like a disease. Better a cheerful sin or two than allow
                            that to take hold!
                    “But then there is this sickly feminine conscience to deal with!” she
                        exclaimed. “It clings to the worst of us still, and prevents the wholesome
                        big catastrophes that might bring salvation.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI.
                    ANOTHER year had blundered itself away, leaving little trace behind
                        it, in Craddock Dene. The schoolmistress's grave was greener and her child
                        rosier than of yore. Little Martha had now begun to talk, and promised to be
                        pretty and fair-haired like her mother.
                    The boys and Algitha had come to spend Saturday and Sunday at the Red House.
                        Hadria hunted out a stupendous card-case (a wedding gift from Mrs. Gordon),
                        erected on her head a majestic bonnet, and announced to the company that she
                        was going for a round of visits.
                    There was a yell of laughter. Hadria advanced across the lawn with quiet
                        dignity, bearing her card-case as one who takes part in a solemn
                        ceremony.
                    “Where did you fall in with that casket?” enquired Fred.
                    “And who was the architect of the cathedral?” asked Ernest.
                    “This casket, as you call it, was presented to me by Mrs. Gordon. The
                        cathedral I designed myself.”
                    They all crowded round to examine the structure. There were many derisive
                        comments.
                    “Gothic,” said Ernest, “pure Gothic.”
                    “I should have described it as ‘Early Perpendicular,’” objected Fred.
                    “Don't display your neglected education; it's beyond all question Gothic.
                        Look at the steeple and the gargoyles and the handsome vegetation. Ruskin
                        would revel in it!”
                    “Are you really going about in that thing?” asked Algitha.
                    
                    Hadria wished to know what was the use of designing a Gothic cathedral if one
                        couldn't go about in it.
                    The bonnet was, in truth, a daring caricature of the prevailing fashion, just
                        sufficiently serious in expression to be wearable.
                    “Well, I never before met a woman who would deliberately flout her neighbours
                        by wearing preposterous millinery!” Ernest exclaimed.
                    Hadria went her round of calls, and all eyes fixed themselves on her bonnet.
                        Mrs. Allan, who had small opportunity of seeing the fashions, seemed
                        impressed if slightly puzzled by it. Mrs. Jordan evidently thought it
                        “loud.” Mrs. Walker supposed it fashionable, but regretted that this sort of
                        thing was going to be worn this season. She hoped the girls would modify the
                        style in adopting it.
                    Mrs. Walker had heard that the two Professors had arrived at Craddock Place
                        yesterday afternoon, and the Engletons expected them to make a visit of some
                        weeks. Hadria's face brightened.
                    “And so at last we may hope that the Priory will be inhabited,” said the
                        vicar's wife.
                    “Of course you know,” she added in the pained voice that she always reserved
                        for anecdotes of local ill-doing, “that Mrs. Fortescue committed suicide
                        there.”
                    Madame Bertaux, the English wife of a French official, had chanced to call,
                        and Mrs. Walker gave the details of the story for the benefit of the
                        new-comer.
                    Madame Bertaux was a brisk, clever, good-looking woman, with a profound
                        knowledge of the world and a corresponding contempt for it.
                    It appeared that the Professor's wife, whom Madame Bertaux had happened to
                        meet in Paris, was a young, beautiful, and self-willed girl, passionately
                        devoted to her husband. She was piqued at his lack of jealousy, and doubted
                        or pretended to doubt his love for her. In order to put him to the test, she
                        determined to rouse his jealousy by violent and systematic flirtation. This led to an entanglement, and
                        finally, in a fit of reckless anger, to an elopement with a Captain Bolton
                        who was staying at the Priory at the time. Seized with remorse, she had
                        returned home to kill herself. This was the tragedy that had kept the old
                        house for so many years tenantless. Hadria's music was the only sound that
                        had disturbed its silence, since the day when the dead body of its mistress
                        was found in the drawing-room, which she was supposed to have entered
                        unknown to anyone, by the window that gave on to the terrace.
                    Valeria Du Prel was able to throw more light on the strange story. She had
                        difficulty in speaking without rancour of the woman who had thrown away the
                        love of such a man. She admitted that the girl was extremely fascinating,
                        and had seemed to Valeria to have the faults of an impetuous rather than of
                        a bad nature. She cherished that singular desire of many strong-willed
                        women, to be ruled and mastered by the man she loved, and she had entirely
                        failed to understand her husband's attitude towards her. She resented it as
                        a sign of indifference. She was like the Chinese wives, who complain
                        bitterly of a husband's neglect when he omits to beat them. She taunted the
                        Professor for failing to assert his “rights.”
                    “Morally, I have no rights, except such as you choose to give me of your own
                        free will,” he replied. “I am not your gaoler.”
                    “And even that did not penetrate to her better nature till it was too late,”
                        Valeria continued. “But after the mischief was done, that phrase seems to
                        have stung her to torment. Her training had blinded her, as one is blinded
                        in coming out of darkness into a bright light. She was used to narrower
                        hearts and smaller brains. Her last letter—a terrible record of the miseries
                        of remorse—shews that she recognized at last what sort of a man he was whose
                        heart she had broken. But even in her repentance, she was unable to conquer
                        her egotism. She could not face the horrors of self-accusation; she
                        preferred to kill herself.”
                    
                    “What a shocking story!” cried Hadria.
                    “And all the more so because the Professor clings to her memory so
                        faithfully. He blames himself for everything. He ought, he says, to have
                        realized better the influence of her training; he ought to have made her
                        understand that he could not assert what she called his ‘rights’ without
                        insulting her and himself.”
                    “Whenever one hears anything new about the Professor, it is always something
                        that makes one admire and love him more than ever!” cried Hadria.
                    Her first meeting with him was in the old Yew Avenue in the Priory garden. He
                        was on his way to call at the Red House. She stood on a patch of grass by a
                        rustic seat commanding the vista of yews, and above them, a wilderness of
                        lilacs and laburnums, in full flower. It looked to her like a pathway that
                        led to some exquisite fairy palace of one's childhood.
                    Almost with the first word that the Professor uttered, Hadria felt a sense of
                        relief and hope. The very air seemed to grow lighter, the scent of the
                        swaying flowers sweeter. She always afterwards associated this moment of
                        meeting with the image of that avenue of mourning yews, crowned with the
                        sunlit magnificence of an upper world of blossom.
                    What had she been thinking of to run so close to despair during these years?
                        A word, a smile, and the dead weight swerved, swung into balance, and life
                        lifted up its head once more. She remembered now, not her limitations, but
                        the good things of her lot; the cruelties that Fate had spared her, the
                        miseries that the ruthless goddess had apportioned to others. But the
                        Professor's presence did not banish, but rather emphasized, the craving to
                        take part in the enriching of that general life which was so poor and sad.
                        He strengthened her disposition to revolt against the further impoverishment
                        of it, through the starving of her own nature. He would not blame her simply
                        on account of difference from others. She felt sure of that. He would not be
                        shocked if she had not answered to the
                        stimulus of surroundings as faithfully as most women seemed to answer to
                        them. Circumstance had done its usual utmost to excite her instinct to beat
                        down the claims of her other self, but for once, circumstance had failed. It
                        was a solitary failure among a creditable multitude of victories. But if
                        instinct had not responded to the imperious summons, the other self had been
                        suffering the terrors of a siege, and the garrison had grown starved and
                        weakly. What would be the end of it? And the little cynical imp that peeped
                        among her thoughts, as a monkey among forest boughs, gibbered his customary
                        “What matters it? One woman's destiny is but a small affair. If I were you I
                        would make less fuss about it.” The Professor would understand that she did
                        not wish to make a fuss. He would not be hard upon any human being. He knew
                        that existence was not such an easy affair to manage. She wished that she
                        could tell him everything in her life—its struggle, its desperate longing
                        and ambition, its hatred, its love: only he would understand
                        all the contradictions and all the pain. She would not mind his blame,
                        because he would understand, and the blame would be just.
                    They walked together down the avenue towards the beautiful old Tudor house,
                        which stood on the further side of a broad lawn.
                    The Professor looked worn and thin. He owned to being very tired of the hurry
                        and struggle of town. He was sick of the conflict of jealousies and
                        ambitions. It seemed so little worth while, this din of voices that would so
                        soon be silenced.
                    “I starve for the sight of a true and simple face, for the grasp of a
                        brotherly hand.”
                    “You?” exclaimed Hadria.
                    “There are so few, so very few, where the throng is thick and the battle
                        fierce. It saddens me to see good fellows trampling one another down,
                        growing hard and ungenerous. And then the vulgarity, the irreverence: they
                        are almost identical, I think. One grows very sick and sorry at times amidst
                        the cruelty and the baseness that threaten to destroy one's courage and one's hope. I know that human
                        nature has in it a germ of nobility that will save it, in the long run, but
                        meanwhile things seem sadly out of joint.”
                    “Is that the order of the universe?” asked Hadria.
                    “No, I think it is rather the disorder of man's nature,” he replied.
                    Hadria asked if he would return to tea at the Red House. The Professor said
                        he would like to call and see Hubert, but proposed a rest on the terrace, as
                        it was still early in the afternoon.
                    “I used to avoid the place,” he said, “but I made a mistake. I have resolved
                        to face the memories: it is better.”
                    It was the first time that he had ever referred, in Hadria's presence, to the
                        tragedy of the Priory.
                    “I have often wished to speak to you about my wife,” he said slowly, as they
                        sat down on the old seat, on the terrace. “I have felt that you would
                        understand the whole sad story, and I hoped that some day you would know
                        it.” He paused and then added, “It has often been a comfort to me to
                        remember that you were in the world, for it made me feel less lonely. I felt
                        in you some new—what can I call it? instinct, impulse, inspiration, which
                        ran you straight against all the hardest stone walls that intersect the
                        pathways of this ridiculous old world. And, strange to say, it is the very
                        element in you that sets you at loggerheads with others, that enabled me to
                        understand you.”
                    Hadria looked bewildered.
                    “To tell you the truth, I have always wondered why women have never felt as I
                        am sure you feel towards life. You remember that day at Dunaghee when you
                        were so annoyed at my guessing your thoughts. They were unmistakeable to one
                        who shared them. Your sex has always been a riddle to me; there seemed to be
                        something abject in their nature, even among the noblest of them. But you
                        are no riddle. While I think you are the least simple woman I ever met, you
                        are to me the easiest to understand.”
                    
                    “And yet I remember your telling me the exact contrary,” said Hadria.
                    “That was before I had caught the connecting thread. Had I been a woman, I
                        believe that life and my place in it would have affected me exactly as it
                        affects you.”
                    Hadria coloured over cheek and brow. It was so strange, so startling, so
                        delicious to find, for the first time in her life, this intimate
                        sympathy.
                    “I wish my wife had possessed your friendship,” he said. “I believe you would
                        have saved us.” He passed his hands over his brow, looking round at the
                        closed windows of the drawing-room. “I almost feel as if she were near us
                        now on this old terrace that she loved so. She planted these roses
                        herself—how they have grown!” They were white cluster roses and yellow
                        banksias, which had strayed far along the balustrade, clambering among the
                        stone pillars.
                    “You doubtless know the bare facts of her life, but nothing is so misleading
                        as bare fact. My wife was one of the positive natures, capable of great
                        nobility, but liable to glaring error and sin! She held ideas passionately.
                        She had the old barbaric notion that a husband was a sort of master, and
                        must assert his authority and rights. It was the result of her training. I
                        saw that a great development was before her. I pleased myself with the
                        thought of watching and helping it. She was built on a grand scale. To set
                        her free from prejudice, from her injustice to herself, from her dependence
                        on me to teach her to breathe deep with those big lungs of hers and think
                        bravely with that capacious brain: that was my dream. I hoped to hear her
                        say to me some day, what I fear no woman has yet been able to say to her
                        husband, ‘The day of our marriage was the birthday of my freedom.’”
                    Hadria drew a long breath. It seemed to overwhelm her that a man, even the
                        Professor, could utter such a sentiment. All the old hereditary instincts of
                        conquest and ownership appeared to be utterly dead in him.
                    No wonder he had found life a lonely pilgrimage! He lived before his time.
                        His wife had taunted him because he would
                        not treat her as his legal property, or rule her through the claims and
                        opportunities that popular sentiment assigned to him.
                    When a woman as generous as himself, as just, as gentle-hearted, had appeared
                        on the horizon of the world, the advent of a nobler social order might be
                        hoped for. The two were necessary for the new era.
                    Then, not only imagination, but cold reason herself grew eloquent with
                        promises.
                    “It was in there, in the old drawing-room, where we had sat together evening
                        after evening, that they found her dead, the very type of all that is
                        brilliant and exquisite and living. To me she was everything. All my
                        personal happiness was centred in her. I cared for nothing so long as she
                        was in the same world as myself, and I might love her. In the darkness that
                        followed, I was brought face to face with the most terrible problems of
                        human fate. I had troubled myself but little about the question of the
                        survival of the personality after death; I had been pre-occupied with life.
                        Now I realized out of what human longings and what human desperation our
                        religions are built. For one gleam of hope that we should meet again—what
                        would I not have given? But it never came. The trend of my thought made all
                        such hopes impossible. I have grown charier of the word ‘impossible’ now. We
                        know so infinitesimally little. I had to learn to live on comfortless. All
                        that was strongly personal in me died. All care about myself went out
                        suddenly, as in other cases I think it goes out slowly, beaten down by the
                        continued buffetings of life. I gave myself to my work, and then a curious
                        decentralizing process took place. I ceased to be the point round which the
                        world revolved, in my own consciousness. We all start our career as pivots,
                        if I am not mistaken. The world span, and I, in my capacity of atomic part,
                        span with it. I mean that this was a continuous, not an occasional state of
                        consciousness. After that came an unexpected peace.”
                    
                    “You have travelled a long and hard road to find it!” cried Hadria.
                    “Not a unique fate,” he said with a smile.
                    “It must be a terrible process that quite kills the personal in one, it is so
                        strong. With me the element is clamorous.”
                    “It has its part to play.”
                    “Surely the gods must be jealous of human beings. Why did they destroy the
                        germ of such happiness as you might have had?”
                    “The stern old law holds for ever; wrong and error have to be expiated.”
                    The Professor traced the history of his wife's family, shewing the gradual
                        gathering of Fate to its culmination in the tragedy of her short life. Her
                        father and grandfather had both been men of violent and tyrannical temper,
                        and tradition gave the same character to their forefathers. Eleanor's mother
                        was one of the meek and saintly women who almost invariably fall to the lot
                        of overbearing men. She had made a virtue of submitting to tyranny, and even
                        to downright cruelty, thus almost repeating the story of her equally meek
                        predecessor, of whose ill-treatment stories were still current in the
                        district.
                    “When death put an end to their wretchedness, one would suppose that the evil
                        of their lives was worked out and over, but it was not so. The Erinnys were
                        still unsatisfied. My poor wife became the victim of their fury. And every
                        new light that science throws upon human life shews that this
                            must be so. The old Greeks saw that unconscious evil-doing
                        is punished as well as that which is conscious. These poor unselfish women,
                        piling up their own supposed merit, at the expense of the character of their
                        tyrants, laid up a store of misery for their descendant, my unhappy wife.
                        Imagine the sort of training and tradition that she had to contend with; her
                        mother ignorant and supine, her father violent, bigoted, almost brutal.
                        Eleanor's nature was obscured and distorted by it. Having inherited the
                        finer and stronger qualities of her father's race, with much of its violence, she was going through a struggle at the
                        time of our marriage: training, native vigour and nobility all embroiled in
                        a desperate civil war. It was too much. There is no doubt as to the ultimate
                        issue, but the struggle killed her. It is a common story: a character
                        militant which meets destruction in the struggle for life. The past evil
                        pursues and throttles the present good.”
                    “This takes away the last consolation from women who have been forced to
                        submit to evil conditions,” said Hadria.
                    “It is the truth,” said the Professor. “The Erinnys are no mere fancy of the
                        Greek mind. They are symbols of an awful fact of life that no one can afford
                        to ignore.”
                    “What insensate fools we all are!” Hadria exclaimed. “I mean women.”
                    The Professor made no polite objection to the statement.
                    As they were wending their way towards the Red House, the Professor reminded
                        his companion of the old friendship that had existed between them, ever
                        since Hadria was a little girl. He had always cherished towards her that
                        sentiment of affectionate good-fellowship. She must check him if he seemed
                        to presume upon it, in seeking sympathy or offering it. He watched her
                        career with the deepest interest and anxiety. He always believed that she
                        would give some good gift to the world. And he still believed it. Like the
                        rest of us, she needed sympathy at the right moment.
                    “We need to feel that there is someone who believes in us, in our good faith,
                        in our good will, one who will not judge according to outward success or
                        failure. Remember,” he said, “that I have that unbounded faith in you.
                        Nothing can move it. Whatever happens and wherever you may be led by the
                        strange chances of life, don't forget the existence of one old friend, or
                        imagine that anything can shake his friendship or his desire to be of
                        service.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII.
                    “THE worst thing about the life of you married people,” said
                        Valeria, “is its ridiculous rigidity. It takes more energy to get the dinner
                        delayed for a quarter of an hour in most well-regulated houses, or some
                        slight change in routine, than to alter a frontier, or pass an Act of
                        Parliament.”
                    Hadria laughed. “Until you discovered this by personal inconvenience, you
                        always scolded me for my disposition to jeer at the domestic scheme.”
                    “It is a little geometrical,” Valeria admitted.
                    “Geometrical! It is like a gigantic ordnance map palmed off on one instead of
                        a real landscape.”
                    “Come now, to be just, say an Italian garden.”
                    “That flatters it, but the simile will do. The eye sees to the end of every
                        path, and knows that it leads to nothing.”
                    “Ah! dear Hadria, but all the pathways of the world have that very same
                        goal.”
                    “At least some of them have the good taste to wind a little, and thus
                        disguise the fact. And think of the wild flowers one may gather by the
                        wayside in some forest track, or among the mountain passes; but in these
                        prim alleys what natural thing can one know? Brain and heart grow tame and
                        clipped to match the hedges, or take on grotesque shapes—”
                    “That one must guard against.”
                    “Oh, I am sick of guarding against things. To be always warding off evil, is
                        an evil in itself. Better let it come.”
                    Valeria looked at her companion anxiously.
                    “One knows how twirling round in a circle makes one giddy, or following the
                        same path stupifies. How does the polar
                        bear feel, I wonder, after he has walked up and down in his cage for years
                        and years?”
                    “Used to it, I imagine,” said Valeria.
                    “But before he gets used to it, that is the bad time. And then it is all so
                        confusing—”
                    Hadria sat on the low parapet of the terrace at the Priory. Valeria had a
                        place on the topmost step, where the sun had been beating all the morning.
                        Hadria had taken off her hat to enjoy the warmth. The long sprays of the
                        roses were blown across her now and then. Once, a thorn had left a mark of
                        blood upon her hand.
                    Valeria gathered a spray, and nodded slowly.
                    “I don't want to allow emotion to get the better of me, Valeria. I don't want
                        to run rank like some overgrown weed, and so I dread the accumulation of
                        emotion—emotion that has never had a good explosive utterance. One has to be
                        so discreet in these Italian gardens; no one shouts or says ‘damn.’”
                    “Ah! you naturally feel out of your element.”
                    Hadria laughed. “It's all very well to take that superior tone.
                            You don't reside on an ordnance map.”
                    There was a pause. Miss Du Prel seemed lost in thought.
                    “It is this dead silence that oppresses one, this hushed endurance of the
                        travail of life. How do these women stand it?”
                    Valeria presently woke up, and admitted that to live in an English village
                        would drive her out of her mind in a week. “And yet, Valeria, you have often
                        professed to envy me, because I had what you called a place in life—as if a
                        place in Craddock Dene were the same thing!”
                    “It is well that you do not mean all you say.”
                    “Or say all I mean.”
                    Valeria laid her hand on Hadria's with wistful tenderness.
                    “I don't think anyone will ever quite understand you, Hadria.”
                    “Including perhaps myself. I sometimes fancy that when it became necessary to provide me with a
                        disposition, the material had run out, for the moment, nothing being left
                        but a few remnants of other people's characters; so a living handful of
                        these was taken up, roughly welded together, and then the mixture was sent
                        whirling into space, to boil and sputter itself out as best it might.”
                    Miss Du Prel turned to her companion.
                    “I see that you are incongruously situated, but don't you think that you may
                        be wrong yourself? Don't you think you may be making a mistake?”
                    Hadria was emphatic in assent.
                    “Not only do I think I may be wrong, but I don't see how—unless by pure
                        chance—I can be anything else. For I can't discover what is right. I see
                        women all round me actuated by this frenzied sense of duty; I see them
                        toiling submissively at their eternal treadmill; occupying their best years
                        in the business of filling their nurseries; losing their youth, narrowing
                        their intelligence, ruining their husbands, and clouding their very moral
                        sense at last. Well, I know that such conduct is supposed to be right and
                        virtuous. But I can't see it. It impresses me simply as stupid and
                        degrading. And from my narrow little point of observation, the more I see of
                        life, the more hopelessly involved become all questions of right and wrong
                        where our confounded sex is concerned.”
                    “Why? Because the standards are changing,” asserted Miss Du Prel.
                    “Because—look, Valeria, our present relation to life is in
                            itself an injury, an insult—you have never seriously denied
                        that—and how can one make for oneself a moral code that has to lay its
                        foundation-stone in that very injury? And if one lays one's foundation-stone
                        in open ground beyond, then one's code is out of touch with present fact,
                        and one's morality consists in sheer revolt all along the line. The whole
                        matter is in confusion. You have to accept Mrs. Walker's and Mrs. Gordon's
                        view of the case, plainly and simply, or you get off into a sort of morass
                        and blunder into quicksands.”
                    
                    “Then what happens?”
                    “That's just what I don't know. That's just why I say that I am probably
                        wrong, because, in this transition period, there seems to be no clear
                        right.”
                    “To cease to believe in right and wrong would be to founder morally,
                        altogether,” Valeria warned.
                    “I know, and yet I begin to realize how true it is that there is no such
                        thing as absolute right or wrong. It is related to the case and the
                        moment.”
                    “This leads up to some desperate deed or other, Hadria,” cried her friend, “I
                        have feared it, or hoped it, I scarcely know which, for some time. But you
                        alarm me to-day.”
                    “If I believed in the efficacy of a desperate deed, Valeria, I should not
                        chafe as I do, against the conditions of the present scheme of things. If
                        individuals could find a remedy for themselves, with a little courage and
                        will, there would be less occasion to growl.”
                    “But can they not?”
                    “Can they?” asked Hadria. “A woman without means of livelihood, breaks away
                        from her moorings—well, it is as if a child were to fall into the midst of
                        some gigantic machinery that is going at full speed. Let her try the feat,
                        and the cracking of her bones by the big wheels will attest its
                        hopelessness. And yet I long to try!” Hadria added beneath her breath.
                    Miss Du Prel admitted that success was rare in the present delirious state of
                        competition. Individuals here and there pulled through.
                    “I told you years ago that Nature had chosen our sex for ill-usage. Try what
                        we may, defeat and suffering await us, in one form or another. You are
                        dissatisfied with your form of suffering, I with mine. A creature in pain
                        always thinks it would be more bearable if only it were on the other
                        side.”
                    “Ah, I know you won't admit it,” said Hadria, “but some day we shall all see
                        that this is the result of human cruelty
                        and ignorance, and that it is no more ‘intended’ or inherently necessary
                        than that children should be born with curvature of the spine, or rickets.
                        Some day it will be as clear as noon, that heartless ‘some day’ which can
                        never help you or me, or any of us who live now. It is we, I suppose, who
                        are required to help the ‘some day.’ Only how, when we are ourselves
                            in extremis?”
                    “The poor are helpers of the poor,” said Valeria.
                    “But if they grow too poor, to starvation point, then they can help no more;
                        they can only perish slowly.”
                    “I hoped,” said Valeria, “that Professor Fortescue would have poured oil upon
                        the troubled waters.”
                    “He does in one sense. But in another, he makes me feel more than ever what I
                        am missing.”
                    Miss Du Prel's impulsive instincts could be kept at bay no longer.
                    “There is really nothing for it, but some deed of daring,” she cried. “I
                        believe, if only your husband could get over his horror of the scandal and
                        talk, that a separation would be best for you both. It is not as if he cared
                        for you. One can see he does not. You are such a strange, inconsequent
                        being, Hadria, that I believe you would feel the parting far more than he
                        would (conventions apart).”
                    “No question of it,” said Hadria. “Our disharmony, radical and hopeless as it
                        is, does not prevent my having a strong regard for Hubert. I can't help
                        seeing the admirable sides of his character. He is too irritated and
                        aggrieved to feel anything but rancour against me. It is natural. I
                        understand.”
                    “Ah, it will only end in some disaster, if you try to reconcile the
                        irreconcilable. Of course I think it is a great pity that you have not more
                        of the instincts on which homes are founded, but since you have not—”
                    Hadria turned sharply round. “Do you really regret that just for once the
                        old, old game has been played unsuccessfully? Therein I can't agree with
                        you, though I am the loser by it.” Hadria
                        grasped a swaying spray that the wind blew towards her, and clasped it hard
                        in her hand, regardless of the thorns. “It gives me a keen, fierce pleasure
                        to know that for all their training and constraining and incitement and
                        starvation, I have not developed masses of treacly instinct in
                        which mind and will and every human faculty struggle, in vain, to move leg
                        or wing, like some poor fly doomed to a sweet and sticky death. At least the
                        powers of the world shall not prevail with me by that old
                        device. Mind and will and every human faculty may die, but they shall not
                        drown, in the usual applauded fashion, in seas of tepid, bubbling,
                        up-swelling instinct. I will dare anything rather than endure that. They
                        must take the trouble to provide instruments of death from without; they
                        must lay siege and starve me; they must attack in soldierly fashion; I will
                        not save them the exertion by developing the means of destruction from
                        within. There I stand at bay. They shall knock down the citadel of my mind
                        and will, stone by stone.”
                    “That is a terrible challenge!” exclaimed Miss Du Prel.
                    A light laugh sounded across the lawn.
                    The afternoon sunshine threw four long shadows over the grass: of a
                        slightly-built woman, of a very tall man, and of two smaller men.
                    The figures themselves were hidden by a group of shrubs, and only the shadows
                        were visible. They paused, for a moment, as if in consultation; the lady
                        standing, with her weight half leaning on her parasol. The tall man seemed
                        to be talking to her vivaciously. His long, shadow-arms shot across the
                        grass, his head wagged.
                    “The shadows of Fate!” cried Valeria fantastically.
                    Then they moved into sight, advancing towards the terrace.
                    “Who are they I wonder? Oh, Professor Fortescue, for one!”
                    “Lady Engleton and Joseph Fleming. The other I don't know.”
                    
                    He was very broad and tall, having a slight stoop, and a curious way of
                        carrying his head, craned forward. The attitude suggested a keen observer.
                        He was attired in knickerbockers and rough tweed Norfolk jacket, and he
                        looked robust and powerful, almost to excess. The chin and mouth were
                        concealed by the thick growth of dark hair, but one suspected unpleasant
                        things of the latter. As far as one could judge his age, he seemed a man of
                        about five-and-thirty, with vigour enough to last for another fifty
                        years.
                    “That,” said Valeria, “must be Professor Theobald. He has probably come to
                        see the house.”
                    “I am sure I shall hate that man,” exclaimed Hadria. “He is not to be
                        trusted; what nonsense he is talking to Lady Engleton!”
                    “You can't hear, can you?”
                    “No; I can see. And she laughs and smiles and bandies words with him. He is
                        amusing certainly; there is that excuse for her; but I wonder how she can do
                        it.”
                    “What an extraordinary creature you are! To take a prejudice against a man
                        before you have spoken to him.”
                    “He is cruel, he is cruel!” exclaimed Hadria in a low, excited voice. “He is
                        like some cunning wild animal. Look at Professor Fortescue! his opposite
                        pole—why it is all clearer, at this distance, than if we were under the
                        confusing influence of their speech. See the contrast between that quiet,
                        firm walk, and the insinuating, conceited tread of the other man. Joseph
                        Fleming comes out well too, honest soul!”
                    “He is carrying a fishing-rod. They have been fishing,” said Valeria.
                    “Not Professor Fortescue, I am certain. He does not find his
                        pleasure in causing pain.”
                    “This hero-worship blinds you. Depend upon it, he is not without the
                        primitive instinct to kill.”
                    
                    “There are individual exceptions to all savage instincts, or the world would
                        never move.”
                    “Instinct rules the world,” said Miss Du Prel. “At least it is obviously
                        neither reason nor the moral sense that rules it.”
                    “Then why does it produce a Professor Fortescue now and then?”
                    “Possibly as a corrective.”
                    “Or perhaps for fun,” said Hadria.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII.
                    “PROFESSOR THEOBALD, if you are able to resist the fascinations of
                        this old house you are made of sterner stuff than I thought.”
                    “I can never resist fascinations, Lady Engleton.”
                    “Do you ever try?”
                    “My life is spent in the endeavour.”
                    “How foolish!” Whether this applied to the endeavour or to the remark, did
                        not quite appear. Lady Engleton's graceful figure leant over the
                        parapet.
                    “Do you know, Mrs. Temperley,” she said in her incessantly vivacious manner,
                        “I have scarcely heard a serious word since our two Professors came to us.
                        Isn't it disgraceful? I naturally expected to be improved and enlightened,
                        but they are both so frivolous, I can't keep them for a moment to any
                        important subject. They refuse to be profound. It is I who have
                        to be profound.”
                    “While we endeavour to be charming,” said Professor
                        Theobald.
                    “You may think that flattering, but I confess it seems to me a beggarly
                        compliment (as men's to women usually are).”
                    “You expect too much of finite intelligence, Lady Engleton.”
                    “This is how I am always put off! If it were not that you are both such old
                        friends—you are a sort of cousin I think, Professor Fortescue—I should
                        really feel aggrieved. One has to endure so much more from relations. No,
                        but really; I appeal to Mrs. Temperley. When one is hungering for erudition,
                        to be offered compliments! Not that I can
                        accuse Professor Fortescue of compliments,” she added with a laugh; “wild
                        horses would not drag one from him. I angle vainly. But he is so
                        ridiculously young. He enjoys things as if he were a schoolboy. Does one
                        look for that in one's Professors? He talks of the country as if it were
                            Paradise Regained.”
                    “So it is to me,” he said with a smile.
                    “But that is not your rôle. You have to
                        think, not to enjoy.”
                    “Then you must not invite us to Craddock Place,” Professor Theobald
                        stipulated.
                    “As usual, a halting compliment.”
                    “To take you seriously, Lady Engleton,” said Professor Fortescue, “(though I
                        know it is a dangerous practice) one of the great advantages of an
                        occasional think is to enable one to relish the joys of mental vacuity, just
                        as the pleasure of idleness is never fully known till one has worked.”
                    “Ah,” sighed Lady Engleton, “I know I don't extract the full flavour out of
                            that!”
                    “It is a neglected art,” said the Professor. “After worrying himself with the
                        problems of existence, as the human being is prone to do, as soon as
                        existence is more or less secure and peaceful, a man can experience few
                        things more enjoyable than to leave aside all problems and go out into the
                        fields, into the sun, to feel the life in his veins, the world at the
                        threshold of his five senses.”
                    “All, now you really are profound at last, Professor!”
                    “I thought it was risky to take you seriously.”
                    “No, no, I am delighted. The world at the threshold of one's five senses. One
                        has but to look and to listen and the beauty of things displays itself for
                        our benefit. Yes, but that is what the artists say, not the Professors.”
                    “Even a Professor is human,” pleaded Theobald.
                    Valeria quoted some lines that she said expressed Professor Fortescue's
                        idea.
                    
                        “Carry me out into the wind and the sunshine,
                        Into the beautiful world!”
                    
                    
                    Lady Engleton's artistic instinct seemed to occupy itself less with the
                        interpretation of Nature than with the appreciation of the handiwork of man.
                        The lines did not stir her. Professor Theobald shared her indifference for
                        the poetic expression, but not for the reality expressed.
                    “I quarrel with you about art,” said Lady Engleton. “Art is art, and nature
                        is nature, both charming in their way, though I prefer art.”
                    “Our old quarrel!” said the Professor.
                    “Because a wild glade is beautiful in its quality of wild glade, you can't
                        see the beauty in a trim bit of garden, with its delightful suggestion of
                        human thought and care.”
                    “I object to stiffness,” said Professor Theobald.
                    His proposals to improve the stately old gardens at the Priory by adding what
                        Lady Engleton called “fatuous wriggles to all the walks, for mere
                        wrigglings' sake,” had led to hot discussions on the principles of art and
                        the relation of symmetry to the sensibilities of mankind. Lady Engleton
                        thought the Professor crude in taste, and shallow in knowledge, on this
                        point.
                    “And yet you appreciate so keenly my old enamels, and your eye seeks out, in
                        a minute, a picturesque roof or gable.”
                    “Perhaps Theobald leans to the picturesque and does not care for the
                        classic,” suggested his colleague; “a fundamental distinction in mental
                        bias.”
                    “Then why does he enjoy so much of the Renaissance work on caskets and goblets? He was raving about
                        them last night in the choicest English.”
                    Lady Engleton crossed over to speak to Miss Du Prel. Professor Theobald
                        approached Mrs. Temperley and Joseph Fleming. Hadria knew by some instinct
                        that the Professor had been waiting for an opportunity to speak to her. As
                        he drew near, a feeling of intense enmity arose within her, which reached
                        its highest pitch when he addressed her in a fine, low-toned voice of
                        peculiarly fascinating quality. Every instinct rose up as if in warning. He
                        sat down beside her, and began to talk
                        about the Priory and its history. His ability was obvious, even in his
                        choice of words and his selection of incidents. He had the power of making
                        dry archæological facts almost dramatic. His speech differed from that of
                        most men, in the indefinable manner wherein excellence differs from
                        mediocrity. Yet Hadria was glad to notice some equally indefinable lack,
                        corresponding perhaps to the gap in his consciousness that Lady Engleton had
                        come upon in their discussions on the general principles of art. What was
                        it? A certain stilted, unreal quality? Scarcely. Words refused to fit
                        themselves to the evasive form. Something that suggested the term “second
                        class,” though whether it were the manner or the substance that was
                        responsible for the impression, was difficult to say.
                    Sometimes his words allowed two possible interpretations to be put upon a
                        sentence. He was a master of the ambiguous. Obviously it was not lack of
                        skill that produced the double-faced phrases.
                    He did not leave his listeners long in doubt as to his personal history. He
                        enjoyed talking about himself. He was a Professor of archæology, and had
                        written various learned books on the subject. But his studies had by no
                        means been confined to the one theme. History had also interested him
                        profoundly. He had published a work on the old houses of England. The Priory
                        figured among them. It was not difficult to discover from the conversation
                        of this singular man, whose subtle and secretive instincts were
                        contradicted, at times, by a strange inconsequent frankness, that his
                        genuine feeling for the picturesque was accompanied by an equally strong
                        predilection for the appurtenances of wealth and splendour; his love of
                        great names and estates being almost of the calibre of the housemaid's
                        passion for lofty personages in her penny periodical. He seemed to be a man
                        of keen and cunning ability, who studied and played upon the passions and
                        weaknesses of his fellows, possibly for their good, but always as a magician
                        might deal with the beings subject to his power. By what strange lapse did he thus naïvely lay
                        himself open to their smiles?
                    Hadria was amused at his occasional impulse of egotistic frankness (or what
                        appeared to be such), when he would solemnly analyse his own character,
                        admitting his instinct to deceive with an engaging and scholarly
                        candour.
                    His penetrating eyes kept a watch upon his audience. His very simplicity
                        seemed to be guarded by his keenness.
                    Hadria chafed under his persistent effort to attract and interest her. She
                        gave a little inward shiver on finding that there was a vague,
                        unaccountable, and unpleasant fascination in the personality of the man.
                    It was not charm, it was nothing that inspired admiration; it rather inspired
                        curiosity and stirred the spirit of research, a spirit which evidently
                        animated himself. She felt that, in order to investigate the workings of her
                        mind and her heart, the Professor would have coolly pursued the most
                        ruthless psychical experiments, no matter at what cost of anguish to
                        herself. In the interests of science and humanity, the learned Professor
                        would certainly not hesitate to make one wretched individual agonize.
                    His appeal to the intellect was stimulatingly strong; it was like a stinging
                        wind, that made one walk at a reckless pace, and brought the blood tingling
                        through every vein. That intellectual force could alone explain the fact of
                        his being counted by Professor Fortescue as a friend. Even then it was a
                        puzzling friendship. Could it be that to Professor Fortescue, he shewed only
                        his best side? His manner was more respectful towards his colleague than
                        towards other men, but even with him he was irreverent in his heart, as
                        towards mankind in general.
                    To Hadria he spoke of Professor Fortescue with enthusiasm—praising his great
                        power, his generosity, his genial qualities, and his uprightness; then he
                        laughed at him as a modern Don Quixote, and sneered at his efforts to save
                        animal suffering when he might have made a name that would never be forgotten, if he pursued a more fruitful
                        branch of research.
                    Hadria remarked that Professor Theobald's last sentence had added the
                        crowning dignity to his eulogium.
                    He glanced at her, as if taking her measure.
                    “Fortescue,” he called out, “I envy you your champion. You point, Mrs.
                        Temperley, to lofty altitudes. I, as a mere man, cannot pretend to scale
                        them.”
                    Then he proceeded to bring down feminine loftiness with virile reason.
                    “In this world, where there are so many other evils to combat, one feels that
                        it is more rational to attack the more important first.”
                    “Ah! there is nothing like an evil to bolster up an evil,” cried Professor
                        Fortescue; “the argument never fails. Every abuse may find shelter behind
                        it. The slave trade, for instance; have we not white slavery in our midst?
                        How inconsistent to trouble about negroes till our own people are truly
                        free! Wife-beating? Sad; but then children are often shamefully ill-used.
                        Wait till they are fully protected before fussing about wives.
                        Protect children? Foolish knight-errant, when you ought to know that
                        drunkenness is at the root of these crimes! Sweep away this
                        curse, before thinking of the children. As for animals, how can any rational
                        person consider their sufferings, when there are men, women,
                        and children with wrongs to be redressed?”
                    Professor Theobald laughed.
                    “My dear Fortescue, I knew you would have some ingenious excuse for your
                        amiable weaknesses.”
                    “It is easier to find epithets than answers, Theobald,” said the Professor
                        with a smile. “I confess I wonder at a man of your logical power being taken
                        in with this cheap argument, if argument it can be called.”
                    “It is my attachment to logic that makes me crave for consistency,” said
                        Theobald, not over pleased at his friend's attack.
                    Professor Fortescue stared in surprise.
                    
                    “But do you really mean to tell me that you think it logical to excuse one
                        abuse by pointing to another?”
                    “I think that while there are ill-used women and children, it is certainly
                        inconsistent to consider animals,” said Theobald.
                    “It does not occur to you that the spirit in man that permits abuse of power
                        over animals is precisely the same devil-inspired spirit that expresses
                        itself in cruelty towards children. Ah,” continued Professor Fortescue,
                        shaking his head, “then you really are one of the many who help wrong to
                        breed wrong, and suffering to foster suffering, all the world over. It is
                        you and those who reason as you reason, who give to our miseries their
                        terrible vitality. What arguments has evil ever given to evil! What shelter
                        and succour cruelty offers eternally to cruelty!”
                     I can't attempt to combat this hobby of yours, Fortescue.”
                    “Again a be-littling epithet in place of an argument! But I know of old that
                        on this subject your intellectual acumen deserts you, as it deserts nearly
                        all men. You sink suddenly to lower spiritual rank, and employ reasoning
                        that you would laugh to scorn in connection with every other topic.”
                    “You seem bent on crushing me,” exclaimed Theobald. “And Mrs. Temperley
                        enjoys seeing me mangled. Talk about cruelty to animals! I call this
                        cold-blooded devilry! Mrs. Temperley, come to my rescue!”
                    “So long as other forms of cruelty can be instanced, Professor Theobald, I
                        don't see how, on your own shewing, you can expect any consistent person to
                        raise a finger to help you,” Hadria returned. Theobald laughed.
                    “But I consider myself too important and valuable to be made the subject of
                        this harsh treatment.”
                    “That is for others to decide. If it affords us amusement to torment you, and
                        amusement benefits our nerves and digestion, how can you justly object? We
                        must consider the greatest good of the greatest number; and we are twice as
                        numerous as you.”
                    
                    “You are delicious!” he exclaimed. Mrs. Temperley's manner stiffened.
                    Acute as the Professor was in many directions, he did not appear to notice
                        the change.
                    His own manner was not above criticism.
                    “It is strange,” said Lady Engleton, in speaking of him afterwards to Hadria,
                        “it is strange that his cleverness does not come to the rescue; but so far
                        from that, I think it leads him a wild dance over boggy ground, like some
                        will-o'-the-wisp, but for whose freakish allurements the good man might have
                        trodden a quiet and inoffensive way.”
                    The only means of procuring the indispensable afternoon tea was to go on to
                        the Red House, which Mrs. Temperley proposed that they should all do.
                    “And is there no shaking your decision about the Priory, Professor Theobald?”
                        Lady Engleton asked as they descended the steps.
                    The Professor's quick glance sought Mrs. Temperley's before he answered. “I
                        confess to feeling less heroic this afternoon.”
                    “Oh, good! We may perhaps have you for a neighbour after all.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                    HADRIA tried to avoid Professor Theobald, but he was not easily
                        avoided. She frequently met him in her walks. The return of spring had
                        tempted her to resume her old habit of rising with the sun. But she found,
                        what she had feared, that her strength had departed, and she as fatigued
                        instead of invigorated, as of yore. She did not regard this loss in a
                        resigned spirit. Resignation was certainly not her strong point. The vicar's
                        wife and the doctor's wife and the rest of the neighbours compared their
                        woes and weariness over five o'clock tea, and these appeared so many and so
                        severe that Hadria felt half ashamed to count hers at all. Yet why lower the
                        altars of the sane goddess because her shrine was deserted? Health was
                        health, though all the women of England were confirmed invalids. And with
                        nothing less ought reasonable creatures to be satisfied. As for taking
                        enfeeblement as a natural dispensation, she would as soon regard delirium
                        tremens in that light.
                    She chafed fiercely against the loss of that blessed sense of well-being and
                        overflowing health, that she used to have, in the old days. She resented the
                        nerve-weariness, the fatigue that she was now more conscious of than ever,
                        with the coming of the spring. The impulse of creative energy broke forth in
                        her. The pearly mornings and the birds' songs stirred every instinct of
                        expression. The outburst did not receive its usual check. The influences of
                        disenchantment were counteracted by Professor Fortescue's presence. His
                        sympathy was marvellous in its penetration, brimming the cold hollows of her spirit, as a flooded river fills
                        the tiniest chinks and corners about its arid banks. He called forth all her
                        natural buoyancy and her exulting sense of life, which was precisely the
                        element which charged her sadness with such a fierce electric quality, when
                        she became possessed by it, as a cloud by storm.
                    Valeria too was roused by the season.
                    “What a parable it all is, as old as the earth, and as fresh, each new year,
                        as if a messenger-angel had come straight from heaven, in his home-spun of
                        young green, to tell us that all is well.”
                    If Hadria met Professor Theobald in her rambles, she always cut short her
                        intended walk. She and Valeria with Professor Fortescue wandered together,
                        far and wide. They watched the daily budding greenery, the gleams of
                        daffodils among their sword-blades of leaves, the pushing of sheaths and
                        heads through the teeming soil, the bursts of sunshine and the absurd
                        childish little gushes of rain, skimming the green country like a frown.
                    “Truly a time for joy and idleness.”
                    “If only,” said Hadria, when Professor Theobald thus grew enthusiastic on the
                        subject, “if only my cook had not given a month's notice.”
                    She would not second his mood, be it what it might. Each day, as they passed
                        along the lanes, the pale green had spread, like fire, on the hedges, caught
                        the chestnuts, with their fat buds shining in the sun, which already was
                        releasing the close-packed leaflets.
                    Hadria (apparently out of sheer devilry, said Professor Theobald) kept up a
                        running commentary on the season, and on her hapless position, bound to be
                        off on the chase for a cook at this moment of festival. Nor was this all.
                        Crockery, pots and pans, clothes for the children, clothes for herself, were
                        urgently needed, and no experienced person, she declared, could afford to
                        regard the matter as simple because it was trivial.
                    
                    “One of the ghastliest mistakes in this trivial and laborious world.”
                    Valeria thought that cooks had simply to be advertised for, and they
                        came.
                    “What naïveté!” exclaimed Hadria. “Helen
                        was persuaded to cross the seas from her Spartan home to set Troy ablaze,
                        and tarnish her fair fame, but it would take twenty sons of Priam to induce
                        a damsel to come over dry land to Craddock Dene, to cook our dinners and
                        retain her character.”
                    “You would almost imply that women don't so very much care about their
                        characters,” said Valeria.
                    “Oh, they do! but sometimes the dulness that an intelligent society has
                        ordained as the classic accompaniment to social smiles, gets the better of a
                        select few—Helen par exemple.”
                    It frequently happened that Hadria and Miss Du Prel came across Lady Engleton
                        and her guests, in the Priory garden. From being accidental, the meetings
                        had become intentional.
                    “I like to fancy we are fugitives—like Boccaccio's merry company—from the
                        plague of our daily prose, to this garden of sweet poetry!” cried Miss Du
                        Prel.
                    They all kindled at the idea. Valeria made some fanciful laws that she said
                        were to govern the little realm. Everyone might express himself freely, and
                        all that he said would be held as sacred, as if it were in confidence. To
                        speak ill or slightingly of anyone, was forbidden. All local and practical
                        topics were to be dropped, as soon as the moss-grown griffins who guarded
                        the Garden of Forgetfulness were passed.
                    Hadria was incorrigibly flippant about the banishment of important local
                        subjects. She said that the kitchen-boiler was out of order, and yet she had
                        to take part in these highly-cultivated conversations and smile, as she
                        complained, with that kitchen-boiler gnawing at her vitals. She claimed to
                        be set on a level with the Spartan boy, if not above him. Valeria might scoff, as those proverbially did
                        who never felt a wound. Hadria found a certain lack of tender feeling among
                        the happy few who had no such tragic burdens to sustain.
                    Not only were these prosaic subjects banished from within the cincture of the
                        gentle griffins, but also the suspicions, spites, petty jealousies, vulgar
                        curiosities, and all the indefinable little darts and daggers that fly in
                        the social air, destroying human sympathy and good-will. Each mind could
                        expand freely, no longer on the defensive against the rain of small stabs.
                        There grew up a delicate, and chivalrous code among the little group who met
                        within the griffins' territory.
                    “It is not for us to say that, individually, we transcend the average of
                        educated mortals,” said Professor Theobald, “but I do assert that
                        collectively we soar high above that depressing standard.”
                    Professor Fortescue observed that whatever might be said about their own
                        little band, it was a strange fact that bodies of human beings were able to
                        produce, by union, a condition far above or far below the average of their
                        separate values. “There is something chemical and explosive in human
                        relationships,” he said.
                    These meetings stood out as a unique experience in the memory of all who took
                        part in them. Chance had brought them to pass, and they refused to answer to
                        the call of a less learned magician.
                    Lady Engleton and Mrs. Temperley alternately sent tea and fruit to the
                        terrace, on the days of meeting, and there the little company would spend
                        the afternoon serenely, surrounded by the beauties of the garden with its
                        enticing avenues, its chaunting birds, its flushes of bloom, and its rich
                        delicious scents.
                    “Why do we, in the nineteenth century, starve ourselves of these delicate
                        joys?” cried Valeria. “Why do we so seldom leave our stupid pre-occupations
                        and open our souls to the sun, to the spring, to the gentle invitations of
                        gardens, to the charm of conversation? We
                        seem to know nothing of the serenities, the urbanities of life.”
                    “We live too fast; we are too much troubled about outward things—cooks and
                        dressmakers, Mrs. Temperley,” said Professor Theobald.
                    “Poor cooks and dressmakers!” murmured Professor Fortescue, “where are
                            their serenities and urbanities?”
                    “I would not deprive any person of the good things of life,” cried Valeria;
                        “but at present, it is only a few who can appreciate and contribute to the
                        delicate essence that I speak of. I don't think one could expect it of one's
                        cook, after all.”
                    “One is mad to expect anything of those who have had no chance,” said
                        Professor Fortescue. “That nevertheless we consistently do,—or what amounts
                        to the same thing: we plume ourselves on what chance has enabled us to be
                        and to achieve, as if between us and the less fortunate there were some
                        great difference of calibre and merit. Nine times in ten, there is nothing
                        between us but luck.”
                    “Oh, dear, you are democratic, Professor!” cried Lady
                        Engleton.
                    “No; I am merely trying to be just.”
                    “To be just you must apply your theory to men and women, as well as to class
                        and class,” Valeria suggested.
                    “Mon Dieu! but so I do; so I always have
                        done, as soon as I was intellectually short-coated.”
                    “And would you excuse all our weaknesses on that ground?” asked Lady
                        Engleton, with a somewhat ingratiating upward gaze of her blue eyes.
                    “I would account for them as I would account for the weaknesses of my own
                        sex. As for excusing, the question of moral responsibility is too involved
                        to be decided off-hand.”
                    The atmosphere of Griffin-land, as Professor Theobald called it, while
                        becoming to his character, made him a little recklessly frank at times.
                    He admitted that throughout his varied experience of life, he had found
                        flattery the most powerful weapon in a skilled hand, and that he had never known it fail. He
                        related instances of the signal success which had followed its application
                        with the trowel. He reminded his listeners of Lord Beaconsfield's famous
                        saying, and chuckled over the unfortunate woman, “plain as a pike-staff,”
                        who had become his benefactress, in consequence of a discreet allusion to
                        the “power of beauty” and a well-placed sigh.
                    “The woman must have been a fool!” said Joseph Fleming.
                    “By no means; she was of brilliant intellect. But praises of that were tame
                        to her; she knew her force, and was perhaps tired of the solitude it
                        induced.” Professor Theobald laughed mightily at his own sarcasm. “But when
                        the whisper of ‘beauty’ came stealing to her ear (which was by no means like
                        a shell) it was surpassing sweet to her. I think there is no yearning more
                        intense than that of a clever woman for the triumphs of mere beauty. She
                        would give all her powers of intellect for the smallest tribute to personal
                        and feminine charm. What is your verdict, Mrs. Temperley?”
                    Mrs. Temperley supposed that clever women had something of human nature in
                        them, and valued overmuch what they did not possess.
                    Professor Theobald had perhaps looked for an answer that would have betrayed
                        more of the speaker's secret feelings.
                    “It is the fashion, I know,” he said, “to regard woman as an enigma. Now,
                        without professing any unusual acuteness, I believe that this is a mistake.
                        Woman is an enigma certainly, because she is human, but that ends it. Her
                        conditions have tended to cultivate in her the power of dissimulation, and
                        the histrionic quality, just as the peaceful ilex learns to put forth thorns
                        if you expose it to the attacks of devouring cattle. It is this instinct to
                        develop thorns in self-defence, and yet to live a little behind the prickly
                        outposts, that leads to our notion of mystery in woman's nature. Let a man's
                        subsistence and career be subject to the same powers and chances as the
                        success of a woman's life now hangs on, and see whether he too does not
                        become a histrionic enigma.”
                    
                    Professor Fortescue observed that the clergy, at times, developed qualities
                        called feminine, because in some respects their conditions resembled those
                        of women.
                    Theobald assented enthusiastically to this view. He had himself entered the
                        church as a young fellow (let not Mrs. Temperley look so inconsiderately
                        astonished), and had left it on account of being unable to conscientiously
                        subscribe to its tenets.
                    “But not before I had acquired some severe training in that sort of strategy
                        which is incumbent upon women, in the conduct of their lives. Whatever I
                        might privately think or feel, my office required that I should only express
                        that which would be more or less grateful to my hearers. (Is not this the
                        woman's case, in almost every position in life?) Even orthodoxy must trip it
                        on tiptoe; there was always some prejudice, some susceptibility to consider.
                        What was frankness in others was imprudence in me; other men's minds might
                        roam at large; mine was tethered, if not in its secret movements, at least
                        in its utterance; and it is a curious and somewhat sinister law of Nature,
                        that perpetual denial of utterance ends by killing the power or the feeling
                        so held in durance.”
                    Hadria coloured.
                    “That experience and its effect upon my own nature, which has lasted to this
                        day,” added Theobald, “served to increase my interest in the fascinating
                        study of character in its relation to environment.”
                    “Ah!” exclaimed Hadria, “then you don't believe in the independent power of
                        the human will?”
                    “Certainly not. To talk of character overcoming circumstance is to talk of an
                        effect without a cause. Yet this phrase is a mere commonplace in our speech.
                        A man no more overcomes his circumstance than oxygen overcomes nitrogen when
                        it combines with it to form the air we breathe. If the nitrogen is present,
                        the combination takes place; but if there is no nitrogen to be had, all the
                        oxygen in the world will not produce our blessed atmosphere!”
                    
                    Joseph Fleming caused a sort of anti-climax by mentioning simply that he
                        didn't know that any nitrogen was required in the atmosphere. One always
                        heard about the oxygen.
                    Professor Theobald remarked, with a chuckle, that this was one of the uses of
                        polite conversation; one picked up information by the way-side. Joseph
                        agreed that it was wonderfully instructive, if the speakers were
                        intelligent.
                    “That helps,” said the Professor, tapping Joseph familiarly on the
                        shoulder.
                    “When shall we have our next meeting?” enquired Lady Engleton, when the
                        moment came for parting.
                    “The sooner the better,” said Valeria. “English skies have Puritan moods, and
                        we may as well profit by their present jocund temper. I never saw a bluer
                        sky in all Italy.”
                    “I certainly shall not be absent from the next meeting,” announced Theobald,
                        with a glance at Hadria.
                    “Nor I,” said Lady Engleton. “Such opportunities come none too often.”
                    “I,” Hadria observed, “shall be cook-hunting.”
                    Professor Theobald's jaw shut with a snap, and he turned and left the group
                        almost rudely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV.
                    HADRIA thought that Professor Theobald had not spoken at random,
                        when he said that the sweetest tribute a woman can receive is that paid to
                        her personal charm. This unwilling admission was dragged out of her by the
                        sight of Valeria Du Prel, as the central figure of an admiring group, in the
                        large drawing-room at Craddock Place.
                    She was looking handsome and animated, her white hair drawn proudly off her
                        brow, and placed as if with intention beside the silken curtains, whose tint
                        of misty pale green was so becoming to her beauty.
                    Valeria was holding her little court, and thoroughly enjoying the
                        admiration.
                    “If we have had to live by our looks for all these centuries, surely the
                        instinct that Professor Theobald thinks himself so penetrating to have
                        discovered in clever women, is accounted for simply enough by heredity,”
                        Hadria said to herself, resentfully.
                    Professor Theobald was bending over Miss Du Prel with an air of devotion.
                        Hadria wished that she would not take his compliments so smilingly. Valeria
                        would not be proof against his flattery. She kindled with a child's
                        frankness at praise. It stung Hadria to think of her friend being carelessly
                        classed by the Professor among women whose weakness he understood and could
                        play upon. He would imagine that he had discovered the mystery of the sun,
                        because he had observed a spot upon it, not understanding the nature of the
                        very spot. Granted that a little salve to one's battered and scarified
                        self-love was soft and grateful, what did that prove of the woman who welcomed it, beyond a human craving to keep
                        the inner picture of herself as bright and fine as might be? The man who,
                        out of contempt or irreverence, set a bait for the universal appetite proved
                        himself, rather than his intended victim, of meagre quality. Valeria
                        complimented him generously by supposing him sincere.
                    Occasional bursts of laughter came from her court. Professor Theobald looked
                        furtively round, as if seeking some one, or watching the effect of his
                        conduct on Mrs. Temperley.
                    Could he be trying to make her jealous of Valeria?
                    Hadria gave a sudden little laugh while Lord Engleton—a shy, rather taciturn
                        man—was shewing her his wife's last picture. Hadria had to explain the
                        apparent discourtesy as best she could.
                    The picture was of English meadows at sunset.
                    “They are the meadows you see from your windows,” said Lord Engleton. “That
                        village is Masham, with the spire shewing through the trees. I daresay you
                        know the view pretty well.”
                    “I doubt,” she answered, with the instinct of extravagance that annoyed
                        Hubert, “I doubt if I know anything else.”
                    Lord Engleton brought a portfolio full of sketches for her to see.
                    “Lady Engleton has been busy.”
                    As Hadria laid down the last sketch, her eyes wandered round the
                        softly-lighted, dimly beautiful room, and suddenly she was seized with a
                        swift, reasonless, overpowering sense of happiness that she felt to be
                        atmospheric and parenthetical in character, but all the more keen for that
                        reason, while it lasted. The second black inexorable semicircle was ready to
                        enclose the little moment, but its contents had the condensed character of
                        that which stands within limits, and reminded her, with a little sting, as
                        of spur to horse, of her sharp, terrible aptitude for delight and her hunger
                        for it. Why not, why not? What pinched, ungenerous philosophy was it that
                        insisted on voluntary starvation? One saw its offspring in the troops of thin white souls that hurry, like
                        ghosts, down the avenues of Life.
                    Again Professor Theobald's stealthy glance was directed towards Mrs.
                        Temperley.
                    “He is as determined to analyse me as if I were a chemical compound,” she
                        said to herself.
                    “Perhaps we may as well join the group,” suggested Lord Engleton.
                    It opened to admit the new comers, disclosing Miss Du Prel, in a gown of pale
                        amber brocade, enthroned upon a straight-backed antique sofa. The
                        exquisiteness of the surroundings which Lady Engleton had a peculiar gift in
                        arranging, the mellow candlelight, the flowers and colours, seem to have
                        satisfied in Valeria an inborn love of splendour that often opened hungry
                        and unsatisfied jaws.
                    She had never looked so brilliant or so handsome.
                    Professor Theobald's face cleared. He explained to Mrs. Temperley that they
                        had been discussing the complexity of human character, and had come to the
                        conclusion that it was impossible to really understand even the simplest man
                        or woman alive. Professor Theobald said that it was a dispensation of
                        Providence which intended the human race for social life. Lady Engleton
                        upbraided the author of the cynical utterance.
                    “Which of us can dare to face his own basest self?” the culprit demanded. “If
                        any one is so bold, I fear I must accuse him (or even her) of lack of
                        self-knowledge rather than give praise for spotlessness.”
                    “Oh, I don't believe all these dreadful things about my fellows!” cried Miss
                        Du Prel, flinging up her fine head defiantly; “one is likely to find in them
                        more or less what one expects. It's the same everywhere. If you go seeking
                        mole-hills and worms, and put nose to ground on the scent for carrion, you
                        will find them all, with the range of snow-capped Alps in full view, and the
                        infinite of blue above your blind head!”
                    
                    Hadria, in justice, could not refuse to acknowledge that Professor Theobald
                        was open-minded.
                    “True,” he said, “it is dangerous to seek for evil, unless you naturally love
                        it, and then—”
                    “You are past praying for,” said Professor Fortescue.
                    “Or at least you never pray,” added Hadria.
                    Both Professors looked at her, each with an expression of enquiry. It was
                        difficult to understand from exactly what sources of experience or intuition
                        the singular remark could have sprung.
                    The conversation took a slight swerve.
                    Professor Theobald contended that all our fond distinctions of vice and
                        virtue, right and wrong, were mere praise and blame of conditions and
                        events.
                    “We like to fancy the qualities of character inherent, while really they are
                        laid on by slow degrees, like paint, and we name our acquaintance by the
                        colour of his last coat.”
                    This view offended Miss Du Prel. Joseph Fleming and Lord Engleton rallied
                        round her. Hubert Temperley joined them. Man, the sublime, the summit of the
                        creation, the end and object of the long and painful processes of nature;
                        sin-spotted perhaps, weak and stumbling, but still the masterpiece of the
                        centuries—was this great and mysterious creature to be thought of
                        irreverently as a mere plain surface for paint? Only consider
                        it! Professor Theobald's head went down between his shoulders as he
                        laughed.
                    “The sublime creature would not look well unpainted, believe
                        me.”
                    “He dare not appear in that plight even to himself, if Theobald be right in
                        what he stated just now,” said Professor Fortescue.
                    “Life to a character is like varnish to wood,” asserted Miss Du Prel “it
                        brings out the grain.”
                    “Ah!” cried Professor Theobald. “Then you insist on varnish, I
                        on paint.”
                    
                    “There is a difference.”
                    “And it affects your respective views throughout,” added Professor Fortescue,
                        “for if the paint theory be correct, then it is true that to know one's
                        fellows is impossible, you can only know the upper coat; whereas if the
                        truth lies in varnish, the substance of the nature is revealed to you
                        frankly, if you have eyes to trace the delicacies of the markings, which
                        tell the secrets of sap and fibre, of impetus and check: all the inner
                        marvels of life and growth that go forward in that most botanic thing, the
                        human soul.”
                    “Professor Fortescue is eloquent, but he makes one feel distressingly
                        vegetable,” said Temperley.
                    “Oh! not unless one has a human soul,” Lady Engleton reassured him.
                    “Am I to understand that you would deprive me of mine?” he asked, with a
                        courtly bow.
                    “Not at all; souls are private property, or ought to be.”
                    “I wish one could persuade the majority of that!” cried Professor
                        Fortescue.
                    “Impossible,” said Theobald. “The chief interest of man is the condition of
                        his neighbour's soul.”
                    “Could he not be induced to look after his own?” Hadria demanded.
                    “All fun would be over,” said Professor Fortescue.
                    “I wish one could have an Act of Parliament, obliging every man to leave his
                        neighbour's soul in peace.”
                    “You would sap the very source of human happiness and enterprise,” Professor
                        Fortescue asserted, fantastically.
                    “I should be glad if I could think the average human being had the energy to
                        look after any business; even other people's!” cried Lady
                        Engleton.
                    “I believe that, as a matter of fact, the soul is a hibernating creature,”
                        said Theobald, with a chuckle.
                    “It certainly has its drowsy winters,” observed Hadria.
                    “Ah! but its spring awakenings!” cried Miss Du Prel.
                    The chime of a clock startled them with its accusation of lingering too long. The hostess remonstrated at
                        the breaking up the party. Why should they hurry away?
                    “The time when we could lay claim to have ‘hurried’ has long since passed,
                        Lady Engleton,” said Hubert, “we can only plead forgiveness by blaming you
                        for making us too happy.”
                    Professor Theobald went to the window. “What splendid moonlight! Lady
                        Engleton, don't you feel tempted to walk with your guests to the end of the
                        avenue?”
                    The idea was eagerly adopted, and the whole party sallied forth together into
                        the brilliant night. Long black shadows of their forms stalked on before
                        them, as if, said Valeria, they were messengers from Hades come to conduct
                        each his victim to the abode of the shades.
                    Professor Theobald shuddered.
                    “I hate that dreadful chill idea of the Greeks. I have much too strong a hold
                        on this pleasant earth to relish the notion of that gloomy under-world yet a
                        while. What do you say, Mrs. Temperley?”
                    She made some intentionally trite answer.
                    Professor Theobald's quick eyes discovered a glow-worm, and he shouted to the
                        ladies to come and see the little green lantern of the spring. The
                        mysterious light was bright enough to irradiate the blades of grass around
                        it, and even to cast a wizard-like gleam on the strange face of the
                        Professor as he bent down close to the ground.
                    “Fancy being a lamp to oneself!” cried Lady Engleton.
                    “It's as much as most of us can do to be a lamp to others,” commented
                        Hadria.
                    “Some one has compared the glow-worm's light to Hero's, when she waited, with
                        trimmed lamp, for her Leander,” said Professor Theobald. “Look here, Mr.
                        Fleming, if you stoop down just here, you will be able to see the little
                        animal.” The Professor resigned his place to him. When Joseph rose from his
                        somewhat indifferent survey of the insect, Professor Theobald had
                        established himself at Mrs. Temperley's right hand, and the rest of the
                        party were left behind.
                    
                    “Talking of Greek ideas,” said the Professor, “that wonderful people
                        perceived more clearly than we Christians have ever done, with all our
                        science, the natural forces of Nature. What we call superstitions were
                        really great scientific intuitions or prophecies. Of course I should not
                        dare to speak in this frank fashion to the good people of Craddock Dene, but
                        to you I need not be on my guard.”
                    “I appreciate your confidence.”
                    “Ah, now, Mrs. Temperley, you are unkind. It is of no use for you to try to
                        persuade me that you are of as well as in the village of
                        Craddock Dene.”
                    “I have never set out upon that task.”
                    “Again I offend!”
                    Hadria, dropping the subject, enquired whether the Professor was well
                        acquainted with this part of the country.
                    He knew it by heart. A charming country; warm, luxuriant, picturesque, the
                        pick of England to his mind. What could beat its woodlands, its hills, its
                        relics of the old world, its barns and churches and smiling villages?
                    “Then it is not only Tudor mansions that attract you?” Hadria could not
                        resist asking.
                    Tudor mansions? There was no cottage so humble, provided it were picturesque,
                        that did not charm him.
                    “Really!” exclaimed Hadria, with a faintly emphasized surprise.
                    “Have I put my luckless foot into it again?”
                    “May I not be impressed by magnanimity?”
                    The Professor's mouth shut sharply.
                    “Mrs. Temperley is pleased to deride me. Craddock Dene must shrivel under
                        destroying blasts like these.”
                    “Not so much as one might think.”
                    The sound of their steps on the broad avenue smote sharply on their ears.
                        Their absurd-looking shadows stretched always in front of them. “A splendid
                        night,” Hadria observed, to break the silence.
                    
                    “Glorious!” returned her companion, as if waking from thought.
                    “Spring is our best season here, the time of blossoming.”
                    “I am horribly tempted to take root in the lovely district, in the hope of
                        also blossoming. Can you imagine me a sort of patriarchal apple-tree laden
                        with snowy blooms?”
                    “You somewhat burden my imagination.”
                    “I have had to work hard all my life, until an unexpected legacy from an
                        admirable distant relation put me at the end of a longer tether. I still
                        have to work, but less hard. I have always tried not to ossify, keeping in
                        view a possible serene time to come, when I might put forth blossoms in this
                        vernal fashion that tempts my middle-aged fancy. And where could I choose a
                        sweeter spot for these late efforts to be young and green, than here in this
                        perfect south of England home?”
                    “It seems large,” said Hadria.
                    Professor Theobald grinned. “You don't appear to take a keen interest in my
                        blossoming.”
                    Why in heaven's name should she?
                    “I cannot naturally expect it,” Professor Theobald continued, reading her
                        silence aright, “but I should be really obliged by your counsel on this
                        matter. You know the village; you know from your own experience whether it
                        is a place to live in always. Advise me, I beg.”
                    “Really, Professor Theobald, it is impossible for me to advise you in a
                        matter so entirely depending on your own taste and your own affairs.”
                    “You can at least tell me how you like the district yourself; whether it
                        satisfies you as to society, easy access of town, influence on the mind and
                        the spirits, and so forth.”
                    “We are considered well off as to society. There are a good many neighbours
                        within a radius of five miles; the trains to town are not all that could be
                        wished. There are only two in the day worth calling such.”
                    “And as to its effect upon the general aspect of life; is it rousing,
                        cheering, inspiring, invigorating?”
                    
                    Hadria gave a little laugh. “I must refer you to other inhabitants on this
                        point. I think Lady Engleton finds it fairly inspiring.”
                    “Lady Engleton is not Mrs. Temperley.”
                    “I doubt not that same speech has already done duty as a compliment to Lady
                        Engleton.”
                    “You are incorrigible!”
                    “I wish you would make it when she is present,” said Hadria, “and see us both
                        bow!” The Professor laughed delightedly.
                    “I don't know what social treasures may be buried within your radius of five
                        miles, but the mines need not be worked. An inhabitant of the Priory would
                        not need them. Mrs. Temperley is a society in herself.”
                    “An inhabitant of the Priory might risk disappointment, in supposing that
                        Mrs. Temperley had nothing else to do than to supply her neighbours with
                        society.”
                    The big jaw closed, with a snap.
                    “I don't think, on the whole, that I will take the Priory,” he said, after a
                        considerable pause; “it is, as you say, large.”
                    Mrs. Temperley made no comment.
                    “I suppose I should be an unwelcome neighbour,” he said, with a sigh.
                    “I fear any polite assurance, after such a challenge, would be a poor
                        compliment. As for entreating you to take the Priory, I really do not feel
                        equal to the responsibility.”
                    “I accept in all humility,” said the Professor, as he opened the gate of the
                        Red House, “a deserved reproof.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI.
                    “A SINGULAR character!” said Professor Theobald.
                    “There is a lot of good in her,” Lady Engleton asserted.
                    Lord Engleton observed that people were always speaking ill of Mrs.
                        Temperley, but he never could see that she was worse than her neighbours.
                        She was cleverer; that might be her offence.
                    Madame Bertaux observed in her short, decisive way that Craddock Dene might
                        have settled down with Mrs. Temperley peaceably enough, if it hadn't been
                        for her action about the schoolmistress's child.
                    “Yes; that has offended everybody,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “What action was that?” asked Theobald, turning slowly towards his
                        hostess.
                    “Oh, haven't you heard? That really speaks well for this house. You can't
                        accuse us of gossip.”
                    Lady Engleton related the incident. “By the way, you must remember that poor
                        woman, Professor. Don't you know you were here at the school-feast that we
                        gave one summer in the park, when all the children came and had tea and
                        games, and you helped us so amiably to look after them?”
                    The Professor remembered the occasion perfectly.
                    “And don't you recollect a very pretty, rather timid, fair-haired woman who
                        brought the children? We all used to admire her. She was a particularly
                        graceful, refined-looking creature. She had read a great deal and was quite
                        cultivated. I often used to think she must feel very solitary at
                            Craddock, with not a soul to
                        sympathize with her tastes. Mr. and Mrs. Walker used to preach to her, poor
                        soul, reproving her love of reading, which took her thoughts away from her
                        duties and her sphere.”
                    Madame Bertaux snorted significantly. Lady Engleton had remarked a strange,
                        sad look in Ellen Jervis's eyes, and owned to having done her best to
                        circumvent the respected pastor and his wife, by lending her books
                        occasionally, and encouraging her to think her own thoughts, and get what
                        happiness she could out of her communings with larger spirits than she was
                        likely to find in Craddock. Of course Mrs. Walker now gave Lady Engleton to
                        understand that she was partly responsible for the poor woman's misfortune.
                        She attributed it to Ellen's having had “all sorts of ideas in her
                        head!”
                    “I admit that if not having all sorts of ideas in one's head is
                        a safeguard, the unimpeachable virtue of a district is amply accounted
                        for.”
                    Professor Theobald chuckled. He enquired if Lady Engleton knew Mrs.
                        Temperley's motive in adopting the child.
                    “Oh, partly real kindness; but I think, between ourselves, that Mrs.
                        Temperley likes to be a little eccentric. Most people have the instinct to
                        go with the crowd. Hadria Temperley has the opposite fault. She loves to run
                        counter to it, even when it is pursuing a harmless course.”
                    Some weeks had now passed since the arrival of the two Professors. The
                        meetings in the Priory garden had been frequent. They had affected for the
                        better Professor Theobald's manner. Valeria's laws had curbed the worst side
                        of him, or prevented it from shewing itself so freely. He felt the
                        atmosphere of the little society, and acknowledged that it was “taming the
                        savage beast.” As for his intellect it took to blazing, as if, he said,
                        without false modesty, a torch had been placed in pure oxygen.
                    “My brain takes fire here and flames. I should make a very creditable beacon if the burning of brains
                        and the burning of faggots were only of equal value.”
                    The little feud between him and Mrs. Temperley had been patched up. She felt
                        that she had been rude to him, on one occasion at any rate, and desired to
                        make amends. He had become more cautious in his conduct towards her.
                    During this period of the Renaissance, as Hadria afterwards called the
                        short-lived epoch, little Martha was visited frequently. Her protectress had
                        expected to have to do battle with hereditary weakness on account of her
                        mother's sufferings, but the child shewed no signs of this. Either the
                        common belief that mental trouble in the mother is reflected in the child,
                        was unfounded, or the evil could be overcome by the simple beneficence of
                        pure air, good food, and warm clothing.
                    Hadria had begun to feel a more personal interest in her charge. She had
                        taken it under her care of her own choice, without the pressure of any
                        social law or sentiment, and in these circumstances of freedom, its
                        helplessness appealed to her protective instincts. She felt the relationship
                        to be a true one, in contradistinction to the more usual form of
                        protectorate of woman to child.
                    “There is nothing in it that gives offence to one's dignity as a human
                        being,” she asserted, “which is more than can be said of the ordinary
                        relation, especially if it be legal.”
                    She was issuing from little Martha's cottage on one splendid morning, when
                        she saw Professor Theobald coming up the road from Craddock Dene. He caught
                        sight of Hadria, hesitated, coloured, glanced furtively up the road, and
                        then, seeing he was observed, came forward, raising his cap.
                    “You can't imagine what a charming picture you make; the English cottage
                        creeper-covered and smiling; the nurse and child at the threshold equally
                        smiling, yourself a very emblem of spring in your fresh gown, and a domestic
                        tabby to complete the scene.”
                    “I wish I could come and see it,” said Hadria. She was waving a twig of
                        lavender, and little Martha was making grabs at it, and laughing her gurgling laugh of babyish glee. Professor
                        Theobald stood in the road facing up hill towards Craddock, whose church
                        tower was visible from here, just peeping through the spring foliage of the
                        vicarage garden. He only now and again looked round at the picture that he
                        professed to admire.
                    “Do you want to see a really pretty child, Professor Theobald? Because if so,
                        come here.”
                    He hesitated, and a wave of dark colour flooded his face up to the roots of
                        his close-clipped hair.
                    He paused a moment, and then bent down to open the little gate. His stalwart
                        figure, in the diminutive enclosure, reduced it to the appearance of a
                        doll's garden.
                    “Step carefully or you will crush the young ménage,” Hadria advised. The rosy-cheeked nurse looked with
                        proud expectancy at the face of the strange gentleman, to note the
                        admiration that he could not but feel.
                    His lips were set.
                    The Professor evidently knew his duty and proceeded to admire with due
                        energy. Little Martha shrank away a little from the bearded face, and her
                        lower lip worked threateningly, but the perilous moment was staved over by
                        means of the Professor's watch, hastily claimed by Hannah, who dispensed
                        with ceremony in the emergency.
                    Martha's eyes opened wide, and the little hands came out to grasp the
                        treasure. Hadria stood and laughed at the sight of the gigantic Professor,
                        helplessly tethered by his own chain to the imperious baby, in whose fingers
                        the watch was tightly clasped. The child was in high delight at the
                        loquacious new toy—so superior to foolish fluffy rabbits that could not tick
                        to save their skins. Martha had no notion of relinquishing her hold, so they
                        need not tug in that feeble way; if they pulled too hard, she would
                        yell!
                    She evidently meant business, said her captive. So long as they left her the
                        watch, they might do as they pleased; she was perfectly indifferent to the
                        accidental human accompaniments of the new
                        treasure, but on that one point she was firm. She proceeded to stuff the
                        watch into her mouth as far as it would go. The Professor was dismayed.
                    “It's all right,” Hadria reassured him. “You have hold of the chain.”
                    “Did you entice me into this truly ridiculous position in order to laugh at
                        me?” enquired the prisoner.
                    “I would not laugh at you for the world.”
                    “Really this young person has the most astonishing grip! How long does her
                        fancy generally remain faithful to a new toy?”
                    “Well—I hope you are not pressed for time,” said Hadria maliciously.
                    The Professor groaned, and struggled in the toils.
                    “Come, little one, open the fingers. Oh no, no, we mustn't cry.” Martha kept
                        her features ready for that purpose at a moment's notice, should any
                        nonsense be attempted.
                    The victim looked round miserably.
                    “Is there nothing that will set me free from these tender moorings?”
                    Hadria shook her head and laughed. “You are chained by the most inflexible of
                        all chains,” she said: “your own compunction.”
                    “Oh, you little tyrant!” exclaimed the Professor, shaking his fist in the
                        baby's face, at which she laughed a taunting and triumphant laugh. Then,
                        once more, the object of dispute went into her mouth. Martha gurgled with
                        joy.
                    “What am I to do?” cried her victim helplessly.
                    “Nothing. She has you securely because you fear to hurt her.”
                    “Little imp! Come now, let me go please. Oh, please, Miss
                        Baby—your Majesty: will nothing soften you? She is beginning early to take
                        advantage of the chivalry of the stronger sex, and I doubt not she will know
                        how to pursue her opportunity later on.”
                    “Oh! is that your parable? Into my head came quite a different one—à
                            propos of what we were talking of yesterday in
                        Griffin-land.”
                    “Ah, the eternal feminine!” cried the Professor. “Yes, you were very
                        brilliant, Mrs. Temperley.”
                    “You now stand for an excellent type of woman, Professor: strong, but
                        chained.”
                    “Oh, thank you! (Infant, I implore!)”
                    “The baby ably impersonates Society with all its sentiments and laws, written
                        and unwritten.”
                    “Ah!—and my impounded property?”
                    “Woman's life and freedom.”
                    “Ingenious! And the chain? (Oh, inexorable babe, have mercy on the sufferings
                        of imprisoned vigour!)”
                    “Her affections, her pity, her compunction, which forbid her to wrench away
                        her rightful property, because ignorant and tender hands are grasping it.
                        The analogy is a little mixed, but no matter.”
                    “I should enjoy the intellectual treat that is spread before me better, in
                        happier circumstances, Mrs. Temperley.”
                    “Apply your remark to your prototype—intelligently,” she added.
                    “My intelligence is rapidly waning; I am benumbed. I fail to follow the
                        intricacies of analogy, in this constrained position.”
                    “Ah, so does she!”
                    “Oh, pitiless cherub, my muscles ache with this monotony.”
                    “And hers,” said Hadria.
                    “Come, come, life is passing; I have but one; relax these fetters, or I
                        die.”
                    Martha frowned and fretted. She even looked shocked, according to Hadria, who
                        stood by laughing. The baby, she pointed out, failed to understand how her
                        captive could so far forget himself as to desire to regain his liberty.
                    “She reminds you, sternly, that this is your proper sphere.”
                    “Perdition!” he exclaimed.
                    “As a general rule,” she assented.
                    
                    The Professor laughed, and said he was tired of being a Type.
                    At length a little gentle force had to be used, in spite of furious
                        resentment on the part of the baby. A more injured and ill-treated mortal
                        could not have been imagined. She set up a heaven-piercing wail, evidently
                        overcome with indignation and surprise at the cruel treatment that she had
                        received. What horrid selfishness to take oneself and one's property away,
                        when an engaging innocent enjoys grasping it and stuffing it into its
                        mouth!
                    “Don't you feel a guilty monster?” Hadria enquired, as the lament of the
                        offended infant followed them up the road.
                    “I feel as if I were slinking off after a murder!” he exclaimed ruefully. “I
                        wonder if we oughtn't to go back and try again to soothe the child.” He
                        paused irresolutely.
                    Hadria laughed. “You do make a lovely allegory!” she exclaimed.
                        “This sense of guilt, this disposition to go back—this attitude of
                        apology—it is speaking, inimitable!”
                    “But meanwhile that wretched child is shrieking itself into a fit!” cried the
                        allegory, with the air of a repentant criminal.
                    “Whenever you open your mouth, out falls a symbol,” exclaimed Hadria. “Be
                        calm; Hannah will soon comfort her, and it is truer kindness not to remind
                        her again of her grievance, poor little soul. But we will go back if you
                        like (you are indeed a true woman!), and you can say you are sorry you made
                        so free with your own possessions, and you wish you had done your duty
                        better, and are eager to return and let Her Majesty hold you captive. Your
                        prototype always does, you know, and she is nearly always pardoned, on
                        condition that she never does anything of that kind again.”
                    Professor Theobald seemed too much concerned about the child, who was still
                        wailing, to pay much attention to any other topic. He turned to retrace his
                        steps.
                    “I think you make a mistake,” said Hadria. “As soon as she sees you she will
                        want the watch, and then you will be placed between the awful alternatives
                        of voluntarily 
                            surrender-
                            surrending
                         ing your freedom, and
                        heartlessly refusing to present yourself to her as a big plaything. In one
                        respect you have not yet achieved a thorough fidelity to your model; you
                        don't seem to enjoy sacrifice for its own sake. That will come with
                        practice.”
                    “I wish that child would leave off crying.”
                    Hadria stopped in the road to laugh at the perturbed Professor.
                    “She will presently. That is only a cry of anger, not of distress. I would
                        not leave her, if it were. Yes; your vocation is clearly allegorical.
                        Feminine to your finger-tips, in this truly feminine predicament. We are
                            all—nous autres femmes—like the hero
                        of the White Ship, who is described by some delightful boy in
                        an examination paper as being ‘melted by the shrieks of a near
                        relation.’”
                    The Professor stumbled over a stone in the road, and looked back at it
                        vindictively.
                    “The near relation does so want to hold one's watch and to stuff it into his
                        mouth, and he shrieks so movingly if one brutally removes one's property and
                        person!”
                    “Alas! I am still a little bewildered by my late captivity. I can't see the
                        bearings of things.”
                    “As allegory, you are as perfect as ever.”
                    “I seem to be a sort of involuntary Pilgrim's Progress!” he
                        exclaimed.
                    “Ah, indeed” cried Hadria, “and how the symbolism of that old allegory would
                        fit this subject!”
                    “With me for wretched hero, I suppose!”
                    “Your archetype;—with a little adaptation—yes, and wonderfully little—the
                        Slough of Despond, Doubting Castle, the Valley of the Shadow of Death—they
                        all fall into place. Ah! the modern Pilgrim's Progress would
                        read strangely and significantly with woman as the pilgrim! But the end—that
                        would be a difficulty.”
                    “One for your sex to solve,” said the Professor.
                    When they arrived at the cottage the wails were dying away, and Hadria advised that they should leave
                        well alone. So the baby's victim somewhat reluctantly retired.
                    “After all, you see, if one has strength of purpose, one can
                        achieve freedom,” he observed.
                    “At the expense of the affections, it would seem,” said Hadria.
                    The walk was pursued towards Craddock. Hadria said she had to ask Dodge, the
                        old gravedigger, if he could give a few days' work in the garden at the Red
                        House.
                    The Professor was walking for walking's sake.
                    “She is a pretty child, isn't she?” said Hadria.
                    “Very; an attractive mite; but she has a will of her own.”
                    “Yes; I confess I have a moment of exultation when that child sets up one of
                        her passionate screams—the thrilling shriek of a near relation!”
                    “Really, why?”
                    “She has to make her way in the world. She must not be too meek. Her mother
                        was a victim to the general selfishness and stupidity. She was too gentle
                        and obedient; too apt to defer to others, to be able to protect herself. I
                        want her child to be strengthened for the battle by a good long draught of
                        happiness, and to be armed with that stoutest of all weapons—perfect
                        health.”
                    “You are very wise, Mrs. Temperley,” murmured the Professor.
                    “Mon Dieu! if one had always to judge for
                        others and never for oneself, what Solons we should all be!”
                    “I hear that you have taken the child under your protection. She may think
                        herself fortunate. It is an act of real charity.”
                    Hadria winced. “I fear not. I have grown very much attached to Martha now,
                        poor little soul; but when I decided to adopt her, I was in a state of
                        red-hot fury.”
                    “Against whom, may I ask?”
                    “Against the child's father,” Hadria replied shortly.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII.
                    “YES, mum, I see un go up to the churchyard. He's tidyin' up the
                        place a bit for the weddin'.”
                    “The wedding?” repeated Hadria vaguely. Mrs. Gullick looked at her as at one
                        whose claims to complete possession of the faculties there seems sad reason
                        to doubt.
                    “Oh, Miss Jordan's, yes. When is it?”
                    “Why, it's this mornin', ma'am!” cried Mrs. Gullick.
                    “Dear me, of course. I thought the village looked rather
                        excited.”
                    People were all standing at their doors, and the children had gathered at the
                        gate of the church, with hands full of flowers. The wedding party was, it
                        appeared, to arrive almost immediately. The children set up a shout as the
                        first carriage was heard coming up the hill.
                    The bride appeared to be a popular character in Craddock. “Dear, dear, she
                        will be missed, she will, she was a real lady, she was; did her duty too to
                        rich and poor.”
                    The Professor asked his companion if she remarked that the amiable lady was
                        spoken of universally in the past tense, as some one who had passed from the
                        light of day.
                    Hadria laughed. “Whenever I am in a cynical mood I come to Craddock and talk
                        to the villagers.”
                    Dodge was found resting on a broom-handle, with a flower in his button-hole.
                        Marion Jordan had supplied him with port wine when he was “took bad” in the
                        winter. Dodge found it of excellent quality. He approved of the institution
                        of landed property, and had a genuine regard for the fair-haired,
                        sweet-voiced girl who used to come in her pony-cart to distribute her bounty to the villagers. Her class
                        in the Sunday-school, as he remarked, was always the best behaved.
                    The new schoolmistress, a sour and uncompromising looking person, had issued
                        from her cottage in her Sunday best to see the ceremony.
                    “That's where little Martha's mother used to live,” said Hadria, “and that is
                        where she died.”
                    “Indeed, yes. I think Mr. Walker pointed it out to me.”
                    “Ah! of course, and then you know the village of old.”
                    “‘Ere they comes!” announced a chorus of children's voices, as the first
                        carriage drove up. The excitement was breathless. The occupants alighted and
                        made their way to the church. After that, the carriages came in fairly quick
                        succession. The bridegroom was criticised freely by the crowd. They did not
                        think him worthy of his bride. “They do say as it was a made up thing,”
                        Dodge observed, “and that it wasn't 'im as she'd like to go up
                        to the altar with.”
                    “Well, I don't sort o' take to 'im neither,” Mrs. Gullick
                        observed, sympathizing with the bride's feeling. “I do hope he'll be kind to
                        the pore young thing; that I do.”
                    “She wouldn't never give it 'im back; she's that good,” another woman
                        remarked.
                    “Who's the gentleman as she had set her heart on?” a romantic young woman
                        enquired.
                    “Oh, it's only wot they say,” said Dodge judicially; “it's no use a listening
                        to all one hears—not by a long way.”
                    “You 'ad it from Lord Engleton's coachman, didn't you?” prompted Mrs.
                        Gullick.
                    “Which he heard it said by the gardener at Mr. Jordan's, as Miss Marion was
                        always about with Mr. Fleming.”
                    The murmur of interest at this announcement was drowned by the sound of
                        carriage wheels. The bride had come.
                    “See the ideal and ethereal being whom you have been so faithfully
                        impersonating all the afternoon!” exclaimed Hadria.
                    A fair, faint, admirably gentle creature, floating in a mist of tulle, was
                        wafted out of the brougham, the spring sunshine burnishing the pale hair, and flashing a dazzling
                        sword-like glance on the string of diamonds at her throat.
                    It seemed too emphatic, too keen a greeting for the faint ambiguous being,
                        about to put the teaching of her girlhood, and her pretty hopes and faiths,
                        to the test.
                    She gave a start and shiver as she stepped out into the brilliant day,
                        turning with a half-scared look to the crowd of faces. It seemed almost as
                        if she were seeking help in a blind, bewildered fashion.
                    Hadria had an impulse. “What would she think if I were to run down those
                        steps and drag her away?” Professor Theobald shook his head.
                    Within the church, the procession moved up the aisle, to the sound of the
                        organ. Hadria compared the whole ceremony to some savage rite of sacrifice:
                        priest and people with the victim, chosen for her fairness, decked as is
                        meet for victims.
                    “But she may be happy,” Lady Engleton suggested when the ceremony was over,
                        and the organ was pealing out the wedding march.
                    “That does not prevent the analogy. What a magnificent hideous thing the
                        marriage-service is! and how exactly it expresses the extraordinary mixture
                        of the noble and the brutal that is characteristic of our notions about
                        these things!”
                    “The bride is certainly allowed to remain under no misapprehension as to her
                        function,” Lady Engleton admitted, with a laugh that grated on Hadria.
                        Professor Theobald had fallen behind with Joseph Fleming, who had turned up
                        among the crowd.
                    “But, after all, why mince matters?”
                    “Why indeed?” said Hadria. Lady Engleton seemed to have expected dissent.
                    “I think,” she said, “that we are getting too squeamish nowadays as to
                        speech. Women are so frightened to call a spade a spade.”
                    “It is the spade that is ugly, not the name.”
                    
                    “But, my dear?”
                    “Oh, it is not a question of squeamishness, it is the insult of the thing.
                        One insult after another, and everyone stands round, looking
                        respectable.”
                    Lady Engleton laughed and said something to lead her companion on.
                    She liked to listen to Mrs. Temperley when she was thoroughly roused.
                    “It is the hideous mixture of the delicately civilised with the brutally
                        savage that makes one sick. A frankly barbarous ceremony, where there was no
                        pretence of refinement and propriety and so forth, would be infinitely less
                        revolting.”
                    “Which your language is plain,” observed Lady Engleton, much amused.
                    “I hope so. Didn't you see how it all hurt that poor girl? One of her
                        training too—suspended in mid air—not an earthward glance. You know Mrs.
                        Jordan's views on the education of girls. Poor girls. They are morally
                        skinned, in such a way as to make contact with Fact a veritable torture, and
                        then suddenly they are sent forth defenceless into Life to be literally
                        curry-combed.”
                    “They adjust themselves,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “Adjust themselves!” Hadria vindictively flicked off the head of a dandelion
                        with her parasol. “They awake to find they have been living in a Fool's
                        Paradise—a little upholstered corner with stained glass windows and
                        rose-coloured light. They find that suddenly they are expected to place in
                        the centre of their life everything that up to that moment they have
                        scarcely been allowed even to know about; they find that they must
                        obediently veer round, with the amiable adaptability of a well-oiled
                        weather-cock. Every instinct, every prejudice must be thrown over. All the
                        effects of their training must be instantly overcome. And all this with
                        perfect subjection and cheerfulness, on pain of moral avalanches and
                        deluges, and heaven knows what convulsions of conventional nature!”
                    
                    “There certainly is some curious incongruity in our training,” Lady Engleton
                        admitted.
                    “Incongruity! Think what it means for a girl to have been taught to connect
                        the idea of something low and evil with that which nevertheless is to lie at
                        the foundation of all her after life. That is what it amounts to, and people
                        complain that women are not logical.”
                    Lady Engleton laughed. “Fortunately things work better in practice than might
                        be expected, judging them in the abstract. How bashful Professor Theobald
                        seems suddenly to have become! Why doesn't he join us, I wonder? However, so
                        much the better; I do like to hear you talk heresy.”
                    “I do more than talk it, I mean it,” said Hadria. “I fail
                        utterly to get at the popular point of view.”
                    But you misrepresent it—there are modifying facts in the
                            case.”
                    “I don't see them. Girls are told: ‘So and so is not a nice thing for you to
                        talk about. Wait, however, until the proper signal is given, and then woe
                        betide you if you don't cheerfully accept it as your bounden duty.’ If
                            that does not enjoin abject slavishness and deliberate
                        immorality of the most cold-blooded kind, I simply don't know what
                        does.”
                    Lady Engleton seemed to ponder somewhat seriously, as she stood looking down
                        at the grave beside her.
                    “How we ever came to have tied ourselves into such an extraordinary mental
                        knot is what bewilders me,” Hadria continued, “and still more, why it is
                        that we all, by common consent, go on acting and talking as if the tangled
                        skein ran smooth and straight through one's fingers.”
                    “Chiefly, perhaps, because women won't speak out,” suggested Lady
                        Engleton.
                    “They have been so drilled,” cried Hadria, “so gagged, so deafened, by ‘the
                        shrieks of near relations.’”
                    Lady Engleton was asking for an explanation, when the wedding-bells began to clang out from the belfry,
                        merry and roughly rejoicing. “Tom-boy bells,” Hadria called them. They
                        seemed to tumble over one another and pick themselves up again, and give
                        chase, and roll over in a heap, and then peal firmly out once more, laughing
                        at their romping digression, joyous and thoughtless and simple-hearted.
                        “Evidently without the least notion what they are celebrating,” said
                        Hadria.
                    The bride came out of church on her husband's arm. The children set up a
                        shout. Hadria and Lady Engleton, and, farther back, Professor Theobald and
                        Joseph Fleming, could see the two figures pass down to the carriage and hear
                        the carriage drive away. Hadria drew a long breath.
                    “I am afraid she was in love with Joseph Fleming,” remarked Lady Engleton. “I
                        hoped at one time that he cared for her, but that Irish friend of Marion's,
                        Katie O'Halloran, came on the scene and spoilt my little romance.”
                    “I wonder why she married this man? I wonder why the wind blows?” was added
                        in self-derision at the question.
                    The rest of the party were now departing. “O sleek wedding guests,” Hadria
                        apostrophized them, “how solemnly they sat there, like all-knowing sphinxes,
                        watching, watching, and that child so helpless—handcuffed, manacled! How
                        many prayers will be offered at the shrine of the goddess of Duty within the
                        next twelve months!”
                    Mrs. Jordan, a British matron of solid proportions, passed down the path on
                        the arm of a comparatively puny cavalier. The sight seemed to stir up some
                        demon in Hadria's bosom. Fantastic, derisive were her comments on that
                        excellent lady's most cherished principles, and on her well-known and
                        much-vaunted mode of training her large family of daughters.
                    “Only the traditional ideas carried out by a woman of narrow mind and strong
                        will,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “Oh those traditional ideas! They might have issued fresh and hot from an
                        asylum for criminal lunatics.”
                    
                    “You are deliciously absurd, Hadria.”
                    “It is the criminal lunatics who are absurd,” she retorted. “Do you remember
                        how those poor girls used to bewail the restrictions to their reading?”
                    “Yes, it was really a reductio ad absurdum
                        of our system. The girls seemed afraid to face anything. They would rather
                        die than think. (I wonder why Professor Theobald lingers so up there by the
                        chancel? The time must be getting on.)”
                    Hadria glanced towards him and made no comment. She was thinking of Mrs.
                        Jordan's daughters.
                    “What became of their personality all that time I cannot imagine: their
                        woman's nature that one hears so much about, and from which such prodigious
                        feats were to be looked for, in the future.”
                    “Yes, that is where the inconsistency of a girl's education
                        strikes me most,” said Lady Engleton. “If she were intended for the cloister
                        one could understand it. But since she is brought up for the express purpose
                        of being married, it does seem a little absurd not to prepare her a little
                        more for her future life.”
                    “Exactly,” cried Hadria, “if the orthodox are really sincere in declaring
                        that life to be so sacred and desirable, why on earth don't they treat it
                        frankly and reverently and teach their girls to understand and respect it,
                        instead of allowing a furtive, sneaky, detestable spirit to hover over
                        it?”
                    “Yes, I agree with you there,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “And if they don't really in their hearts think it sacred and so
                        on (and how they can, under our present conditions, I fail to
                        see), why do they deliberately bring up their girls to be married, as they
                        bring up their sons to a profession? It is inconceivable, and yet good
                        people do it, without a suspicion of the real nature of their conduct, which
                        it wouldn't be polite to describe.”
                    Mrs. Jordan—her face irradiated with satisfaction—was acknowledging the
                        plaudits of the villagers, who shouted
                        more or less in proportion to the eye-filling properties of the departing
                        guests.
                    Hadria was seized with a fit of laughter. It was an awkward fact, that she
                        never could see Mrs. Jordan's majestic form and noble bonnet without feeling
                        the same overwhelming impulse to laugh.
                    “This is disgraceful conduct!” cried Lady Engleton.
                    Hadria was clearly in one of her most reckless moods to-day.
                    “You have led me on, and must take the consequences!” she cried. “Imagine,”
                        she continued with diabolical deliberation, “if Marion, on any day
                            previous to this, had gone to her mother and expressed an
                        overpowering maternal instinct—a deep desire to have a child!”
                    “Good heavens!” exclaimed Lady Engleton.
                    “Why so shocked, since it is so holy?”
                    “But that is different.”
                    “Ah! then it is holy only when the social edict goes forth, and proclaims the
                        previous evil good and the previous good evil.”
                    “Come, come; the inconsistency is not quite so bad as that. (How that man
                        does dawdle!)”
                    Hadria shrugged her shoulders. “It seems to me so; for now suppose, on the
                        other hand, that this same Marion, on any day subsequent to
                        this, should go to that same mother, and announce an exactly opposite
                        feeling—a profound objection to the maternal function—how would she be
                        received? Heavens, with what pained looks, with what platitudes and
                        proverbs, with what reproofs and axioms and sentiments! She would issue
                        forth from that interview like another St. Sebastian, stuck all over with
                        wounds and arrows. ‘Sacred mission,’ ‘tenderest joy,’ ‘holiest mission,’
                        ‘highest vocation’—one knows the mellifluous phrases.”
                    “But after all she would be wrong in her objection. The instinct is a true
                        one,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “Oh, then why should she be pelted for expressing it previously, if the
                        question is not indiscreet?”
                    
                    “Well, it would seem rather gruesome, if girls were to be overpowered with
                        that passion.”
                    “So we are all to be horribly shocked at the presence of an instinct to-day,
                        and then equally shocked and indignant at its absence to-morrow; our
                        sentiment being determined by the performance or otherwise of the ceremony
                        we have just witnessed. It really shows a touching confidence in the swift
                        adaptability of the woman's sentimental organization!”
                    Lady Engleton gave an uneasy laugh, and seemed lost in uncomfortable thought.
                        She enjoyed playing with unorthodox speculations, but she objected to have
                        her customary feelings interfered with, by a reasoning which she did not see
                        her way to reduce to a condition of uncertainty. She liked to leave a
                        question delicately balanced, enjoying all the fun of “advanced” thought
                        without endangering her favourite sentiments. Like many women of talent, she
                        was intensely maternal, in the instinctive sense; and for that reason had a
                        vague desire to insist on all other women being equally so; but the notion
                        of the instinct becoming importunate in a girl revolted her; a state of mind
                        that struggled to justify itself without conscious entrenchment behind mere
                        tradition. Lady Engleton sincerely tried to shake off prejudice.
                    “You are in a mixed condition of feeling, I see,” Hadria said. “I am not
                        surprised. Our whole scheme of things indeed is so mixed, that the wonder
                        only is we are not all in a state of chronic lunacy. I believe, as a matter
                        of fact, that we are; but as we are all lunatics together,
                        there is no one left to put us into asylums.”
                    Lady Engleton laughed.
                    “The present age is truly a strange one,” she exclaimed.
                    “Do you think so? It always seems to me that the present age is finding out
                        for the first time how very strange all the other ages have
                        been.”
                    “However that may be, it seems to me, that a sort of shiver is going through
                        all Society, as if it had suddenly become very much aware of things and couldn't make them
                        out—nor itself.”
                    “Like a creature beginning to struggle through a bad illness. I do think it
                        is all extremely remarkable, especially the bad illness.”
                    “You are as strange as your epoch,” cried Lady Engleton
                    “It is a sorry sign when one remarks health instead of disease.”
                    “Upon my word, you have a wholesome confidence in yourself!”
                    “I do not, in that respect, differ from my kind,” Hadria returned calmly.
                    “It is that which was that seems to you astonishing, not that
                        which is to be,” Lady Engleton commented, pensively. “For my part I confess
                        I am frightened, almost terrified at times, at that which is to be.”
                    “I am frightened, terrified, so that the thought becomes unbearable, at that
                        which is,” said Hadria.
                    There was a long silence. Lady Engleton appeared to be again plunged in
                        thought.
                    “The maternal instinct—yes; it seems to be round that unacknowledged centre
                        that the whole storm is raging.”
                    “A desperate question that Society shrinks from in terror: whether women
                        shall be expected to conduct themselves as if the instinct had been weighed
                        out accurately, like weekly stores, and given to all alike, or whether
                        choice and individual feeling is to be held lawful in this
                            matter—there is the red-hot heart of the battle.”
                    “Remember men of science are against freedom in this respect. (I do wish
                            our man of science would make haste.)”
                    “They rush to the rescue when they see the sentimental defences giving way,”
                        said Hadria. “If the ‘sacred privilege’ and ‘noblest vocation’ safeguards
                        won't hold, science must throw up entrenchments.”
                    “I prefer the more romantic and sentimental presentment of the matter,” said
                        Lady Engleton.
                    
                    “Naturally. Ah! it is pathetic, the way we have tried to make things
                        decorative; but it won't hold out much longer. Women are driving their
                        masters to plain speaking—the ornaments are being dragged down. And what do
                        we find? Bare and very ugly fact. And if we venture to hint that this
                        unsatisfactory skeleton may be modified in form, science becomes stern. She
                        wishes things, in this department, left as they are. Women are made for
                        purposes of reproduction; let them clearly understand that. No picking and
                        choosing.”
                    “Men pick and choose, it is true,” observed Lady Engleton in a musing tone,
                        as if thinking aloud.
                    “Ah, but that's different—a real scientific argument, though a superficial
                        observer might not credit it. At any rate, it is quite sufficiently
                        scientific for this particular subject. Our leaders of thought don't bring
                        out their Sunday-best logic on this question. They lounge in dressing-gown
                        and slippers. One gets to know the oriental pattern of that dressing-gown
                        and the worn-down heels of those old slippers.”
                    “They may be right though, notwithstanding their logic,” said Lady
                        Engleton.
                    “By good luck, not good guidance. I wonder what her Serene Highness Science
                        would say if she heard us?”
                    “That we two ignorant creatures are very presumptuous.”
                    “Yes, people always fall back on that, when they can't refute you.”
                    Lady Engleton smiled.
                    “I should like to hear the question discussed by really competent persons.
                        (Well, if luncheon is dead cold it will be his own fault.)”
                    “Oh, really competent persons will tell us all about the possibilities of
                        woman: her feelings, desires, capabilities, and limitations, now and for all
                        time to come. And the wildly funny thing is that women are ready, with open
                        mouths, to reverently swallow this male verdict on their inherent nature, as
                        if it were gospel divinely inspired. I may appear a little inconsistent,” Hadria added with a laugh, “but I
                        do think women are fools!”
                    They had strolled on along the path till they came to the schoolmistress's
                        grave, which was green and daisy-covered, as if many years had passed since
                        her burial. Hadria stood, for a moment, looking down at it.
                    “Fools, fools, unutterable, irredeemable fools!” she burst out.
                    “My dear, my dear, we are in a churchyard,” remonstrated Lady Engleton, half
                        laughing.
                    “We are at this grave,” said Hadria.
                    “The poor woman would have been among the first to approve of the whole
                        scheme, though it places her here beneath the daisies.”
                    “Exactly. Am I not justified then in crying ‘fool’? Don't imagine that I
                        exclude myself,” she added.
                    “I think you might be less liable to error if you were rather
                        more of a fool, if I may say so,” observed Lady Engleton.
                    “Oh error! I daresay. One can guard against that, after a fashion, by never
                        making a stretch after truth. And the reward comes, of its kind. How green
                        the grave is. The grass grows so fast on graves.”
                    Lady Engleton could not bear a churchyard. It made one think too
                        seriously.
                    “Oh, you needn't unless you like!” said Hadria with a laugh. “Indeed a
                        churchyard might rather teach us what nonsense it is to take things
                        seriously—our little affairs. This poor woman, a short while ago, was dying
                        of grief and shame and agony, and the village was stirred with excitement,
                        as if the solar system had come to grief. It all seemed so stupendous and
                        important, yet now—look at that tall grass waving in the wind!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII.
                    PROFESSOR THEOBALD had been engaged, for the last ten minutes, in
                        instructing Joseph Fleming and a few stragglers, among whom was Dodge, in
                        the characteristics of ancient architecture. He was pointing out the fine
                        Norman window of the south transept, Joseph nodding wearily, Dodge leaning
                        judicially on his broom and listening with attention. Joseph, as Lady
                        Engleton remarked, was evidently bearing the Normans a bitter grudge for
                        making interesting arches. The Professor seemed to have no notion of
                        tempering the wind of his instruction to the shorn lambs of his
                        audience.
                    “I can't understand why he does not join us,” said Lady
                        Engleton. “It must be nearly luncheon time. However, it doesn't much matter,
                        as everyone seems to be up here. I wonder,” she went on after a pause, “what
                        the bride would think if she had heard our conversation this morning!”
                    “Probably she would recognize many a half-thought of her own,” said
                        Hadria.
                    Lady Engleton shook her head.
                    “They alarm me, all these ideas. For myself, I feel bound to accept the
                        decision of wise and good men, who have studied social questions
                        deeply.”
                    Personal feeling had finally overcome her desire to fight off the influence
                        of tradition.
                    “I do not feel competent to judge in a matter so complex, and must be content
                        to abide by the opinions of those who have knowledge and experience.”
                    Lady Engleton thus retreated hastily behind cover. That was a strategic
                        movement always available in difficulties, and it left one's companion in
                        speculation alone in the open, arrogantly sustaining an eagle-gaze in the
                        sun's face. The advantages of feminine
                        humility were obvious. One could come out for a skirmish and then run for
                        shelter, in awkward moments. No woman ought to venture out on the bare plain
                        without a provision of the kind.
                    Hadria had a curious sensation of being so exposed, when Lady Engleton
                        retreated behind her “good and wise men,” and she had the usual feminine
                        sense of discomfort in the feeling of presumption that it produced. Heredity
                        asserted itself, as it will do, in the midst of the fray, just when its
                        victim seems to have shaken himself free from the mysterious obsession. But
                        Hadria did not visibly flinch. Lady Engleton received the impression that
                        Mrs. Temperley was too sure of her own judgment to defer even to the
                        wisest.
                    She experienced a pleasant little glow of humility, wrapping herself in it,
                        as in a protecting garment, and unconsciously comparing her more moderate
                        and modest attitude favourably with her companion's self-confidence. Just at
                        that moment, Hadria's self-confidence was gasping for breath. But her sense
                        of the comic in her companion's tactics survived, and set her off in an
                        apparently inconsequent laugh, which goaded Lady Engleton into retreating
                        further, to an encampment of pure orthodoxy.
                    “I fear there is an element of the morbid, in all this fretful revolt against
                        the old-established destiny of our sex,” she said.
                    The advance-guard of Professor Theobald's party was coming up. The Professor
                        himself still hung back, playing the Ancient Mariner to Joseph Fleming's
                        Wedding Guest. Most unwilling was that guest, most pertinacious that
                        mariner.
                    Hadria had turned to speak to Dodge, who had approached, broom in hand.
                        “Seems only yesterday as we was a diggin' o' that there grave, don't it,
                        mum?” he remarked pleasantly, including Hadria in the credit of the affair,
                        with native generosity.
                    “It does indeed, Dodge. I see you have been tidying it up and clearing away
                        the moss from the name. I can read it now. Ellen
                            Jervis.—Requiescat in pace.”
                    “We was a wonderin' wot that meant, me and my missus.”
                    Hadria explained.
                    
                    “Oh indeed, mum. She didn't die in peace, whatever she be a doin' now, not
                            she didn't, pore thing. I was jest a tellin' the gentleman”
                        (Dodge indicated Professor Theobald with a backward movement of the thumb),
                        “about the schoolmarm. He was talkin' like a sermon—beautiful—about the
                        times wen the church was built; and about them as come over from France and
                        beat the English—shameful thing for our soldiers, 'pears to me, not as I
                        believes all them tales. Mr. Walker says as learnin' is a pitfall, which I
                        don't swaller everything as Mr. Walker says neither. Seems to me as it don't
                        do to be always believin' wot's told yer, or there's no sayin' wot sort o'
                        things you wouldn't come to find inside o' yer, before you'd done.”
                    Hadria admitted the danger of indiscriminate absorption, but pointed out that
                        if caution were carried too far, one might end by finding nothing inside of
                        one at all, which also threatened to be attended with inconvenience.
                    Dodge seemed to feel that the désagréments
                        in this last case were trivial as compared with those of the former.
                    “Dodge is a born sceptic,” said Lady Engleton. “What would you say, Dodge, if
                        some tiresome, reasonable person were to come and point out something to you
                        that you couldn't honestly deny, and yet that seemed to upset all the ideas
                        that you had felt were truest and best?”
                    Dodge scratched his head. “I should say as what he said wasn't true,” replied
                        Dodge.
                    “But if you couldn't help seeing that it was true?”
                    “That ud be arkard,” Dodge admitted.
                    “Then what would you do?”
                    Dodge leant upon the broom-handle, apparently in profound thought. His words
                        were waited for.
                    “I think,” he announced at last, “as I shouldn't do nothin' partic'lar.”
                    “Dodge, you really are an oracle!” Hadria exclaimed. “What could more simply
                        describe the action of our Great Majority?”
                    “You are positively impish in your mood to-day!” exclaimed Lady Engleton.
                        “What should we do without our Great
                        Majority, as you call it? It is absolutely necessary to put some curb on the
                        wild impulses of pure reason”—a sentiment that Hadria greeted with chuckles
                        of derision.
                    Joseph Fleming was looking longingly towards the grave, but his face was
                        resigned, for the Ancient Mariner had him button-holed securely.
                    “What are they lingering for so long, I wonder?” cried Lady
                        Engleton impatiently. “Professor Theobald is really too instructive to-day.
                        I will go and hurry him.”
                    Joseph welcomed her as his deliverer.
                    “I was merely waiting for you two ladies to move; I would have come on with
                        Mr. Fleming. I am extremely sorry,” said the Professor.
                    He followed Lady Engleton down the path between the graves, with something of
                        the same set expression that had been on his face when he came up the path
                        of the cottage garden to admire the baby.
                    “It appears that we were all waiting for each other,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “This 'ere's the young woman's grave, sir—Ellen Jervis—'er as I was a tellin'
                        you of,” said Dodge, pointing an earth-stained finger at the mound.
                    “Oh, yes; very nice,” said the Professor vaguely. Hadria's laugh disconcerted
                        him. “I mean—pretty spot—well chosen—well made.”
                    Hadria continued to laugh. “I never heard less skilled comment on a grave!”
                        she exclaimed. “It might be a pagoda!”
                    “It's not so easy as you seem to imagine to find distinctive epithets. I
                        challenge you. Begin with the pagoda.”
                    “None of the first canons of criticism is never to attempt the feat yourself;
                        jeer rather at others.”
                    “The children don't like the new schoolmarm near so well as this 'un,”
                        observed Dodge, touching the grave with his broom. “Lord, it was an
                        unfort'nate thing, for there wasn't a better girl nor she were in all
                        Craddock (as I was a tellin' of you, sir), not when she fust come as pupil
                        teacher. It was all along of her havin' no friends, and her mother far
                            away. She used to say to me at times
                        of an afternoon wen she was a passin' through the churchyard—‘Dodge,’ says
                        she, ‘do you know I have no one to care for, or to care for me, in all the
                        world?’ I used to comfort her like, and say as there was plenty in Craddock
                        as cared for her, but she always shook her head, sort o' sad.”
                    “Poor thing!” Lady Engleton exclaimed.
                    “And one mornin' a good time after, I found her a cryin' bitter, just there
                        by her own grave, much about where the gentleman 'as his foot at this
                        moment” (the Professor quickly withdrew it). “It was in the dusk o' the
                        evenin', and she was a settin' on the rail of old Squire Jordan's grave,
                        jes' where you are now, sir. We were sort o' friendly, and wen I heard 'er a
                        taking on so bad, I jes' went and stood alongside, and I sez, ‘Wy Ellen
                        Jervis,’ I sez, ‘vot be you a cryin' for?’ But she kep' on sobbin' and
                        wouldn't answer nothin'. So I waited, and jes' went on with my work a bit,
                        and then I sez again, ‘Ellen Jervis, wot be you a cryin' for?’ And then she
                        took her hands from her face and she sez, ‘Because I am that miserable,’ sez
                        she, and she broke out cryin' wuss than ever. ‘Dear, dear,’ I sez, ‘vot is
                        it? Can't somebody do nothin' for you?’
                    “‘No; nobody in the world can help me, and nobody wants to; it would be
                        better if I was under there.’ And she points to the ground just where she
                        lies now—I give you my word she did—and sure enough, before another six
                        months had gone by, there she lay under the sod, 'xacly on the spot as she
                        had pointed to. She was a sinner, there's no denyin', but she 'ad to suffer
                        for it more nor most.”
                    “Very sad,” observed Professor Theobald nervously, with a glance at Hadria,
                        as if expecting derision.
                    “It is a hard case,” said Lady Engleton, “but I suppose error
                            has to be paid for.”
                    “Well, I don't know 'xacly,” said Dodge, “it depends.”
                    “On the sex,” said Hadria.
                    “I have known them as spent all their lives a' injurin' of others, and no
                        harm seemed to come to 'em. And I've seed
                        them as wouldn't touch a fly and always doin' their neighbours a kind turn,
                        wot never 'ad a day's luck.”
                    “Let us hope it will be made up in the next world,” said Lady Engleton. Dodge
                        hoped it would, but there was something in the turn of his head that seemed
                        to denote a disposition to base his calculations on this, rather than on the
                        other world. He was expected home by his wife, at this hour, so wishing the
                        company good day, and pocketing the Professor's gratuity with a gleam of
                        satisfaction in his shrewd and honest face, he trudged off with his broom
                        down the path, and out by the wicket-gate into the village street.
                    “I never heard that part of the story before,” said Lady Engleton, when the
                        gravedigger had left.
                    It was new to everybody. “It brings her nearer, makes one realize her
                        suffering more painfully.”
                    Hadria was silent.
                    Professor Theobald cast a quick, scrutinizing glance at her.
                    “I can understand better now how you were induced to take the poor child,
                        Mrs. Temperley,” Lady Engleton remarked.
                    They were strolling down the path, and Professor Theobald was holding open
                        the gate for his companions to pass through. His hand seemed to shake
                        slightly.
                    “I don't enjoy probing my motives on that subject,” said Hadria.
                    “Why? I am sure they were good.”
                    “I can't help hoping that that child may live to avenge her mother; to make
                        some man know what it is to be horribly miserable—but, oh, I suppose it's
                        like trying to reach the feelings of a rhinoceros!”
                    “There you are much mistaken, Mrs. Temperley,” said the Professor. “Men are
                        as sensitive, in some respects, as women.”
                    “So much the better.”
                    “Then do you think it quite just to punish one man for the sin of
                        another?”
                    “No; but there is a deadly feud between the sexes: it is a hereditary vendetta: the duty of vengeance is
                        passed on from generation to generation.”
                    “Oh, Mrs. Temperley!” Lady Engleton's tone was one of reproach.
                    “Yes, it is vindictive, I know; one does not grow tender towards the enemy at
                        the grave of Ellen Jervis.”
                    “At least, there were two sinners, not only one.”
                    “Only one dies of a broken heart.”
                    “But why attempt revenge?”
                    “Oh, a primitive instinct. And anything is better than this meek endurance,
                        this persistent heaping of penalties on the scapegoat.”
                    No good ever came of mere revenge, however,” said Professor Theobald.
                    “Sometimes that is the only form of remonstrance that is listened to,” said
                        Hadria. “When people have the law in their own hands and Society at their
                        back, they can afford to be deaf to mere verbal protest.”
                    “As for the child,” said Lady Engleton, “she will be in no little danger of a
                        fate like her mother's.”
                    Hadria's face darkened.
                    “At least then, she shall have some free and happy hours first; at least she
                        shall not be driven to it by the misery of moral starvation, starvation of
                        the affections. She shall be protected from the solemn fools—with sawdust
                        for brains and a mechanical squeaker for heart—who, on principle, cut off
                        from her mother all joy and all savour in life, and then punished her for
                        falling a victim to the starved emotional condition to which they had
                        reduced her.”
                    “The matter seems complex,” said Lady Engleton, “and I don't see how revenge
                        comes in.”
                    “It is a passion that has never been eradicated. Oh, if I could but find that
                        man!”
                    “A man is a hard thing to punish,—unless he is in love with one.”
                    “Well, let him be in love!” cried Hadria fiercely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX.
                    THE sound of music stole over the gardens of the Priory, at sunset.
                        It was the close of one of the most exquisite days of Spring. A calm had
                        settled over the country with the passing away of the sun-god. His attendant
                        winds and voices had been sacrificed on his funeral pyre.
                    Two figures sat on the terrace by the open window of the drawing-room,
                        listening to the utterance, in music, of a tumultuous, insurgent spirit. In
                        Professor Fortescue, the musical passion was deeply rooted, as it is in most
                        profoundly sympathetic and tender natures. Algitha anxiously watched the
                        effect of her sister's playing on her companion.
                    The wild power of the composer was not merely obvious, it was overwhelming.
                        It was like “a sudden storm among mountains,” “the wind-swept heavens at
                        midnight,” “the lonely sea”: he struggled for the exactly-fitting simile.
                        There was none, because of its many-sidedness. Loneliness remained as an
                        ever-abiding quality. There were moon-glimpses and sun-bursts over the
                        scenery of the music; there was sweetness, and a vernal touch that thrilled
                        the listeners as with the breath of flowers and the fragrance of earth after
                        rain, but always, behind all fancy and grace and tenderness, and even
                        passion, lurked that spectral loneliness. The performer would cease for some
                        minutes, and presently begin again in a new mood. The music was always
                        characteristic, often wild and strange, yet essentially sane.
                    “There is a strong Celtic element in it,” said the Professor. “This is a very
                        wonderful gift. I suppose one never does really know one's fellows: her
                        music to-night reveals to me new sides of Hadria's character.”
                    
                    “I confess they alarm me,” said Algitha.
                    “Truly, this is not the sort of power that can be safely shut up and stifled.
                        It is the sort of power for which everything ought to be set aside. That is
                        my impression of it.”
                    “I am worried about Hadria,” Algitha said. “I know her better than most
                        people, and I know how hard she takes things and what explosive force that
                        musical instinct of hers has. Yet, it is impossible, as things are, for her
                        to give it real utterance. She can only open the furnace door now and
                        then.”
                    The Professor shook his head gravely. “It won't do: it isn't safe. And why
                        should such a gift be lost?”
                    “That's what I say! Yet what is to be done? There is no one really to blame.
                        As for Hubert, I am sorry for him. He had not the faintest idea of Hadria's
                        character, though she did her best to enlighten him. It is hard for him
                        (since he feels it so) and it is desperate for her. You are such an old
                        friend, that I feel I may speak to you about it. You see what is going on,
                        and I know it is troubling you as it does me.”
                    “It is indeed. If I am not very greatly mistaken, here is real musical genius
                        of the first order, going to waste: strong forces being turned in upon the
                        nature, to its own destruction; and, as you say, it seems as if nothing
                        could be done. It is the more ironically cruel, since Hubert is himself
                        musical.”
                    “Oh, yes, but in quite a different way. His fetish is good taste, or what he
                        thinks such. Hadria's compositions set his teeth on edge. His nature is
                        conventional through and through. He fears adverse comment more than any
                        earthly thing. And yet the individual opinions that compose the general
                        ‘talk’ that he so dreads, are nothing to him. He despises them heartily. But
                        he would give his soul (and particularly Hadria's) rather than incur a
                        whisper from people collectively.”
                    “That is a very common trait. If we feared only the opinions that we respect,
                        our fear would cover but a small area.”
                    The music stole out again through the window. The thoughts of the listeners
                        were busy. It was not until quite lately
                        that Professor Fortescue had fully realised the nature of Hadria's present
                        surroundings. It had taken all his acuteness and his sympathy to enable him
                        to perceive the number and strength of the little threads that hampered her
                        spontaneity. As she said, they were made of heart-strings. A vast spider's
                        web seemed to spread its tender cordage round each household, for the
                        crippling of every winged creature within its radius. Fragments of torn
                        wings attested the struggles that had taken place among the treacherous
                        gossamer.
                    “And the maddening thing is,” cried Algitha, “that there is nobody to swear
                        at. Swearing at systems and ideas, as Hadria says, is a Barmecide feast to
                        one's vindictiveness.”
                    “It is the tyranny of affection that has done so much to ruin the lives of
                        women,” the Professor observed, in a musing tone.
                    Then after a pause: “I fear your poor mother has never got over
                            your little revolt, Algitha.”
                    “Never, I am sorry to say. If I had married and settled in Hongkong, she
                        would scarcely have minded, but as it is, she feels deserted. Of course the
                        boys are away from home more than I am, yet she is not grieved at that. You
                        see how vast these claims are. Nothing less than one's entire life and
                        personality will suffice.”
                    “Your mother feels that you are throwing your life away, remember. But truly
                        it seems, sometimes, as if people were determined to turn affection into a
                        curse instead of a blessing!”
                    “I never think of it in any other light,” Algitha announced serenely.
                    The Professor laughed. “Oh, there are exceptions, I hope,” he said. “Love,
                        like everything else that is great, is very, very rare. We call the
                        disposition to usurp and absorb another person by that name, but woe betide
                        him or her who is the object of such a sentiment. Yet happily, the real
                        thing is to be found now and again. And from that arises
                        freedom.”
                    Hadria was playing some joyous impromptu, which seemed to express the very
                        spirit of Freedom herself.
                    “I think Hadria has something of the gipsy in her,” said Algitha. “She is so utterly and hopelessly
                        unfitted to be the wife of a prim, measured, elegant creature like
                        Hubert—good fellow though he is—and to settle down for life at Craddock
                        Dene.”
                    “Yes,” returned the Professor, “it has occurred to me, more than once, that
                        there must be a drop of nomad blood somewhere among the ancestry.”
                    “Hadria always says herself, that she is a vagabond in disguise.”
                    He laughed. Then, as he drew out a tobacco-pouch from his pocket and
                        proceeded to light his pipe, he went on, in quiet meditative fashion, as if
                        thinking aloud: “The fact of the matter is, that in this world, the dead
                        weight of the mass bears heavily upon the exceptional natures. It comes home
                        to one vividly, in cases like this. The stupidity and blindness of each
                        individual goes to build up the dead wall, the impassable obstacle, for some
                        other spirit. The burden that we have cast upon the world has to be borne by
                        our fellow man or woman, and perhaps is doomed to crush a human soul.”
                    “It seems to me that most people are engaged in that crushing industry,” said
                        Algitha with a shrug. “Don't I know their bonnets, and their frock-coats and
                        their sneers!”
                    The Professor smiled. He thought that most of us were apt to take that
                        attitude at times. The same spirit assumed different forms. “While we are
                        sneering at our fellow mortal, and assuring him loftily that he can
                        certainly prevail, if only he is strong enough, it may be our
                        particular dulness or our hardness that is dragging him down to
                        a tragic failure, before our eyes.”
                    The sun was low when the player came out to the terrace and took her
                        favourite seat on the parapet. The gardens were steeped in profound peace.
                        One could hear no sound for miles round. The broad country made itself
                        closely felt by its stirring silence. The stretches of fields beyond fields,
                        the woodlands in their tender green, the long, long sweep of the quiet land,
                        formed a benign circle round the garden, and led the sense of peace out and
                        out to the horizon, where the liquid light of the sky touched the hills.
                    The face of the Professor had a transparent look and a singular beauty of expression, such as is seen on
                        the faces of the dead, or on the faces of those who are carried beyond
                        themselves by some generous enthusiasm.
                    They watched, in silence, the changes creeping over the heavens, the subtle
                        transmutations of tint; the fairylands of cloud, growing like dreams, and
                        melting in golden annihilation; the more delicate and exquisite, the sooner
                        the end.
                    The first pale hints of splendour had spread, till the whole West was
                        throbbing with the radiance. But it was short-lived. The soul of the light,
                        with its vital vibrating quality, seemed to die, and then slowly the glow
                        faded, till every sparkle was gone, and the amphitheatre of the sky lay
                        cold, and dusk, and empty. It was not till the last gleam had melted away
                        that a word was spoken.
                    “It is like a prophecy,” said Hadria.
                    “To-morrow the dawn, remember.”
                    Hadria's thoughts ran on in the silence.
                    The dawn? Yes; but all that lost splendour, those winged islands, those wild
                        ranges of mountain where the dreams dwell; to-morrow's dawn brings no
                        resurrection for them. Other pageants there will be, other cloud-castles,
                        but never again just those.
                    Had the Professor been following her thoughts?
                    “Life,” he said, “offers her gifts as the Sibyl her books; they grow fewer as
                        we refuse them.”
                    “Ah! that is the truth that clamours in my brain, warning and pointing to an
                        empty temple, like the deserted sky, a little while ahead.”
                    “Be warned then.”
                    “Ah! but what to do? I am out of myself now with the spring; there are so
                        many benign influences. I too have winged islands, and wild ranges where the
                        dreams dwell; life is a fairy-tale; but there is always that terror of the
                        departure of the sun.”
                    “Carpe diem.”
                    Hadria turned a startled and eager face towards the Professor, who was leaning back in his chair, thoughtfully
                        smoking. The smoke curled away serenely through the calm air of the
                        evening.
                    “You have a great gift,” he said.
                    “One is afraid of taking a thing too seriously because it is one's own.”
                    The Professor turned almost angrily.
                    “Good heavens, what does it matter whose it is? There may be a sort of
                        inverted vanity in refusing fair play to a power, on that ground. Alas! here
                        is one of the first morbid signs of the evil at work upon you. If you had
                        been wholesomely moving and striving in the right direction, do you think
                        you would have been guilty of that piece of egotism?”
                    “Vanity pursues one into hidden corners of the mind. I am so used to that
                        sort of spirit among women. Apparently I have caught the infection.”
                    “I would not let it go farther,” advised the Professor.
                    “To do myself justice, I think it is superficial,” said Hadria with a laugh.
                        “I would dare anything, anything for a chance of freedom, for
                        —,” she broke off, hesitating. “I remember once—years ago, when I was quite
                        a girl—seeing a young ash-tree that had got jammed into a chink so that it
                        couldn't grow straight, or spread, as its inner soul, poor stripling,
                        evidently inspired it to grow. Outside, there were hundreds of upright,
                        vigorous, healthful young trees, fulfilling that innate idea in apparent
                        gladness, and with obvious general advantage, since they were growing into
                        sound, valuable trees, straight of trunk, nobly developed. I felt like the
                        poor sapling in the cranny, that had just the same natural impetus of
                        healthy growth as all the others, but was forced to become twisted, and
                        crooked, and stunted and wretched. I think most women have to grow in a
                        cranny. It is generally known as their Sphere.” Algitha gave an approving
                        chuckle. “I noticed,” Hadria added, “that the desperate struggle to grow of
                        that young tree had begun to loosen the masonry of the edifice that cramped
                        it. There was a great dangerous-looking crack right across the building. The tree was not saved from deformity,
                            but it had its revenge! Some day that noble institution
                        would come down by the run.”
                    “Yes. Well, the thing to do is to get out of it,” said the Professor.
                    “You really advise that?”
                    “Advise? One dare not advise. It is too perilous. No general theories will
                        hold in all instances.”
                    “Tell me,” said Hadria, “what are the qualities in a human being that make
                        him most serviceable, or least harmful?”
                    “What qualities?” Professor Fortescue watched the smoke of his pipe curling
                        away, as if he expected to find the answer in its coils. He answered slowly,
                        and with an air of reflection.
                    “Mental integrity, and mercy. A resolute following of reason (in which I
                        should include insight) to its conclusion, though the heavens fall, and an
                        unfailing fellow-feeling for the pain and struggle and heartache and sin
                        that life is so full of. But one must add the quality of imagination.
                        Without imagination and its fruits, the world would be a howling
                        wilderness.”
                    “I wish you would come down with me, some day, to the East End and hold out
                        the hand of fellowship to some of the sufferers there,” cried Algitha. “I
                        am, at times, almost in despair at the mass of evil to be fought against,
                        but somehow you always make me feel, Professor, that the race has all the
                        qualities necessary for redemption enfolded within itself.”
                    “But assuredly it has!” cried the Professor. “And assuredly those redeeming
                        qualities will germinate. Otherwise the race would extinguish itself in
                        cruelty and corruption. Let people talk as they please about the struggle
                        for existence, it is through the development of the human mind and the
                        widening of human mercy that better things will come.”
                    “One sees, now and then, in a flash, what the world may some day be,” said
                        Hadria. “The vision comes, perhaps, with the splendour of a spring morning,
                        or opens, scroll-like, in a flood of noble music. It sounds unreal, yet it
                        brings a sense of conviction that is irresistible.”
                    “I think it was Pythagoras who declared that the woes of men are the work of
                        their own hands,” said the Professor. “So
                        are their joys. Nothing ever shakes my belief that what the mind of man can
                        imagine, that it can achieve.”
                    “But there are so many pulling the wrong way,” said Algitha sadly.
                    “Ah, one man may be miserable through the deeds of others; the race can only
                        be miserable through its own.”
                    After a pause, Algitha put a question: How far was it justifiable to give
                        pain to others in following one's own idea of right and reasonable? How far
                        might one attempt to live a life of intellectual integrity and of the widest
                        mercy that one's nature would stretch to?
                    Professor Fortescue saw no limits but those of one's own courage and ability.
                        Algitha pointed out that in most lives the limit occurred much sooner. If
                        “others”—those tyrannical and absorbent “others”—had intricately bound up
                        their notions of happiness with the prevention of any such endeavour, and if
                        those notions were of the usual negative, home-comfort-and-affection order,
                        narrowly personal, fruitful in nothing except a sort of sentimental egotism
                        that spread over a whole family—what Hadria called an egotism à douze—how far ought these ideas to be
                        respected, and at what cost?
                    Professor Fortescue was unqualified in his condemnation of the sentiment
                        which erected sacrificial altars in the family circle. He spoke scornfully
                        of the doctrine of renunciation, so applied, and held the victims who
                        brought their gifts of power and liberty more culpable than those who
                        demanded them, since the duty of resistance to recognised wrong was obvious,
                        while great enlightenment was needed to teach one to forego an unfair
                        privilege or power that all the world concurred in pressing upon one.
                    “Then you think a person—even a feminine person—justified in giving pain by
                        resisting unjust demands?”
                    “I certainly think that all attempts to usurp another person's life on the
                        plea of affection should be stoutly resisted. But I recognise that cases
                        must often occur when resistance is practically impossible.”
                    “One ought not to be too easily melted by the ‘shrieks of a near relation,’”
                        said Hadria. “Ah, I have a good mind to
                        try. I don't fear any risk for myself, nor any work; the stake is worth it.
                        I don't want to grow cramped and crooked, like my poor ash-tree. Perhaps
                        this may be a form of vanity too; I don't know, I was going to say I don't
                        care.”
                    The scent of young leaves and of flowers came up, soft and rich from the
                        garden, and as Hadria leant over the parapet, a gust of passionate
                        conviction of power swept over her; not merely of her own personal power,
                        but of some vast, flooding, beneficent well-spring from which her own was
                        fed. And with the inrush, came a glimpse as of heaven itself.
                    “I wonder,” she said after a long silence, “why it is that when we
                            know for dead certain, we call it faith.”
                    “Because, I suppose, our certainty is certainty only for ourselves. If you
                        have found some such conviction to guide you in this wild world, you are
                        very fortunate. We need all our courage and our strength—”
                    “And just a little more,” Hadria added.
                    “Yes; sometimes just a little more, to save us from its worst pitfalls.”
                    It struck both Hadria and her sister that the Professor was looking very ill
                        and worn this evening.
                    “You are always giving help and sympathy to others, and you never get any
                        yourself!” Hadria exclaimed.
                    But the Professor laughed, and asserted that he was being spoilt at Craddock
                        Dene. They had risen, and were strolling down the yew avenue. A little star
                        had twinkled out.
                    “I am very glad to have Professor Fortescue's opinion of your composition,
                        Hadria. I was talking to him about you, and he quite agrees with me.”
                    “What? that I ought to—?”
                    “That you ought not to go on as you are going on at present.”
                    “But that is so vague.”
                    “I suppose you have long ago tried all the devices of self-discipline?” said
                        the Professor. “There are ways, of course, of arming oneself against minor
                        difficulties, of living within a sort of citadel. Naturally much force has
                        to go in keeping up the defences, but it is better than having none to keep
                        up.”
                    
                    Hadria gave a quiet smile. “There is not a method, mental or other, that I
                        have not tried, and tried hard. If it had not been for the sternest
                        self-discipline, my mind at this moment, would be so honeycombed with small
                        pre-occupations (pleasant and otherwise), that it would be incapable of
                        consecutive ideas of any kind. As it is, I feel a miserable number of holes
                        here”—she touched her brow—“a loss of absorbing power, at times, and a
                        mental slackness that is really alarming. What remains of me has been
                        dragged ashore as from a wreck, amidst a rush of wind and wave. But just
                        now, thanks greatly to your sympathy and Algitha's, I seem restored to
                        myself. I can never describe the rapture of that sensation to one who has
                        never felt himself sinking down and down into darkness, to a dim hell, where
                        the doom is a slow decay instead of the fiery pains of burning.”
                    “This is all wrong, wrong!” cried the Professor anxiously.
                    “Ah! but I feel now, such certainty, such courage. It seems as if Fate were
                        giving me one more chance. I have often run very close to making a definite
                        decision—to dare everything rather than await this fool's disaster. But then
                        comes that everlasting feminine humility, sneaking up with its simper: ‘Is
                        not this presumptuous, selfish, mistaken, wrong? What business have
                            you, one out of so many, to break roughly through the
                        delicate web that has been spun for your kindly detention?’ Of course my
                        retort is: ‘What business have they to spin the web?’ But one can never get
                        up a real sense of injured innocence. It is always the spiders who seem
                        injured and innocent. However, this time I am going to try, though the
                        heavens fall!”
                    A figure appeared, in the dusk, at the further end of the avenue. It proved
                        to be Miss Du Prel, who had come to find Hadria. Henriette had arrived
                        unexpectedly by the late afternoon train, and Valeria had volunteered to
                        announce her arrival to her sister-in-law.
                    “Ah!” exclaimed Hadria, “heaven helps him who helps himself! This will fit in
                        neatly with my plans.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX.
                    VALERIA DU PREL, finding that Miss Temperley proposed a visit of
                        some length, returned to town by the early morning train.
                    “Valeria, do you know anyone in Paris to whom you could give me a letter of
                        introduction?” Hadria asked, at the last moment, when there was just time to
                        write the letter, and no more.
                    “Are you going to Paris?” Valeria asked, startled.
                    “Please write the letter and I will tell you some day what I want it
                        for.”
                    “Nothing very mad, I hope?”
                    “No, only a little—judiciously mad.”
                    “Well, there is Madame Bertaux, in the Avenue Kleber, but her you know
                        already. Let me see. Oh yes, Madame Vauchelet, a charming woman; very kind
                        and very fond of young people. She is about sixty; a widow; her husband was
                        in the diplomatic service.”
                    Valeria made these hurried comments while writing the letter.
                    “She is musical too, and will introduce you, perhaps, to the great Joubert,
                        and others of that set. You will like her, I am sure. She is one of the
                        truly good people of this world. If you really are going to Paris, I shall
                        feel happier if I know that Madame Vauchlelet is your friend.”
                    Sophia's successor announced that the pony-cart was at the door.
                    Miss Du Prel looked rather anxiously at Hadria and her sister-in-law, as they
                        stood on the steps to bid her good-bye. There was a look of elation mixed
                        with devilry, in Hadria's face. The two
                        figures turned and entered the house together, as the pony-cart passed
                        through the gate.
                    Hadria always gave Miss Temperley much opportunity for the employment of
                        tact, finding this tact more elucidating than otherwise to the designs that
                        it was intended to conceal; it affected them in the manner of a
                        magnifying-glass. About a couple of years ago, the death of her mother had
                        thrown Henriette on her own resources, and set free a large amount of energy
                        that craved a legitimate outlet. The family with whom she was now living in
                        London, not being related to her, offered but limited opportunities.
                    Henriette's eye was fixed, with increasing fondness, upon the Red House.
                            There lay the callow brood marked out by Nature and man,
                        for her ministrations. With infinite adroitness, Miss Temperley questioned
                        her sister-in-law, by inference and suggestion, about the affairs of the
                        household. Hadria evaded the attempt, but rejoiced, for reasons of her own,
                        that it was made. She began to find the occupation diverting, and
                        characteristically did not hesitate to allow her critic to form most
                        alarming conclusions as to the state of matters at the Red House. She was
                        pensive, and mild, and a little surprised when Miss Temperley, with a
                        suppressed gasp, urged that the question was deeply serious. It amused
                        Hadria to reproduce, for Henriette's benefit, the theories regarding the
                        treatment and training of children that she had found current among the
                        mothers of the district.
                    Madame Bertaux happened to call during the afternoon, and that outspoken lady
                        scoffed openly at these theories, declaring that women made idiots of
                        themselves on behalf of their children, whom they preposterously ill-used
                        with unflagging devotion.
                    “The moral training of young minds is such a problem,” said Henriette, after
                        the visitor had left, “it must cause you many an anxious thought.”
                    Hadria arranged herself comfortably among cushions, and let every muscle
                        relax.
                    
                    “The boys are so young yet,” she said drowsily. “I have no doubt that will
                        all come, later on.”
                    “But, my dear Hadria, unless they are trained now—”
                    “Oh, there is plenty of time!”
                    “Do you mean to say—?”
                    “Only what other people say. Nothing in the least original, I assure you. I
                        see the folly and the inconvenience of that now. I have consulted hoary
                        experience. I have sat reverently at the feet of old nurses. I have talked
                        with mothers in the spirit of a disciple, and I have learnt, oh, so
                        much!”
                    “Mothers are most anxious about the moral training of their little ones,”
                        said Henriette, in some bewilderment.
                    “Of course, but they don't worry about it so early. One can't expect
                        accomplished morality from poor little dots of five and six. The charm of
                        infancy would be gone.”
                    Miss Temperley explained, remonstrated. Hadria was limp, docile, unemphatic.
                        Perhaps Henriette was right, she didn't know. A sense of honour? (Hadria
                        suppressed a smile.) Could one, after all, expect of six what one did not
                        always get at six and twenty? Morals altogether seemed a good deal to ask of
                        irresponsible youth. Henriette could not overrate the importance of early
                        familiarity with the difference between right and wrong. Certainly it was
                        important, but Hadria shrank from an extreme view. One must not rush into it
                        without careful thought.
                    “But meanwhile the children are growing up!” cried Henriette, in despair.
                    Hadria had not found that experienced mothers laid much stress on that fact.
                        Besides, there was considerable difficulty in the matter. Henriette did not
                        see it. The difference between right and wrong could easily be taught to a
                        child.
                    Perhaps so, but it seemed to be thought expedient to defer the lesson till
                        the distant future; at least, if one might judge from the literature
                        especially designed for growing minds, wherein clever villainy was exalted,
                        and deeds of ferocious cruelty and revenge
                        occurred as a daily commonplace among heroes. The same policy was indicated
                        by the practice of allowing children to become familiar with the sight of
                        slaughter, and of violence of every kind towards animals, from earliest
                        infancy. Hadria concluded from all this, that it was thought wise to
                        postpone the moral training of the young till a more convenient season.
                    Henriette looked at her sister-in-law, with a sad and baffled mien. Hadria's
                        expression was solemn, and as much like that of Mrs. Walker as she could
                        make it, without descending to obvious caricature.
                    “Do you think it quite wise, Henriette, to run dead against the customs of
                        ages? Do you think it safe to ignore the opinion of countless generations of
                        those who were older and wiser than ourselves?”
                    “Dear me, how you have changed!” cried Miss Temperley.
                    “Advancing years; the sobering effects of experience,” Hadria explained. She
                        was grieved to find Henriette at variance with those who had practical
                        knowledge of education. As the child grew up, one could easily explain to
                        him that the ideas and impressions that he might have acquired, in early
                        years, were mostly wrong, and had to be reversed. That was quite simple.
                        Besides, unless he were a born idiot of criminal tendencies, he was bound to
                        find it out for himself.
                    “But, my dear Hadria, it is just the early years that are the impressionable
                        years. Nothing can quite erase those first impressions.”
                    “Oh, do you think so?” said Hadria mildly.
                    “Yes, indeed, I think so,” cried Henriette, losing her temper.
                    “Oh, well of course you may be right.”
                    Hadria had brought out a piece of embroidery (about ten years old), and was
                        working peacefully.
                    On questions of hygiene, she was equally troublesome. She had taken hints,
                        she said, from mothers of large families. Henriette laid stress upon fresh
                        air, even in the house. Hadria believed in
                        fresh air; but was it not going a little far to have it in the house?
                    Henriette shook her head.
                    Fresh air was always necessary. In moderation, perhaps, Hadria
                        admitted. But the utmost care was called for, to avoid taking cold. She laid
                        great stress upon that. Children were naturally so susceptible. In all the
                        nurseries that she had visited, where every possible precaution was taken
                        against draughts, the children were incessantly taking cold.
                    “Perhaps the precautions made them delicate,” Henriette suggested. But this
                        paradox Hadria could not entertain. “Take care of the colds, and the fresh
                        air will take care of itself,” was her general maxim.
                    “But, my dear Hadria, do you mean to tell me that the people about here are
                        so benighted as really not to understand the importance to the system of a
                        constant supply of pure air?”
                    Hadria puckered up her brow, as if in thought. “Well,” she said, “several
                        mothers have mentioned it, but they take more interest in fluid
                        magnesia and tonics.”
                    Henriette looked dispirited.
                    At any rate, there was no reason why Hadria should not be more enlightened
                        than her neighbours, on these points. Hadria shook her head deprecatingly.
                        She hoped Henriette would not mind if she quoted the opinion of old Mr.
                        Jordan, whose language was sometimes a little strong. He said that he didn't
                        believe all that “damned nonsense about fresh air and drains!” Henriette
                        coughed.
                    “It is certainly not safe to trust entirely to nurses, however devoted and
                        experienced,” she insisted. Hadria shrugged her shoulders. If the nurse
                            did constitutionally enjoy a certain stuffiness in her
                        nurseries—well the children were out half the day, and it couldn't do them
                        much harm. (Hadria bent low over her embroidery.)
                    The night?
                    “Oh! then one must, of course, expect to be a little stuffy.”
                    
                    “But,” cried Miss Temperley, almost hopeless, “impure air breathed, night
                        after night, is an incessant drain on the strength, even if each time it
                        only does a little harm.”
                    Hadria smiled over her silken arabesques. “Oh, nobody ever objects to things
                        that only do a little harm.” There was a moment of silence.
                    Henriette thought that Hadria must indeed have changed very much during the
                        last years. Well, of course, when very young, Hadria said, one had
                        extravagant notions: one imagined all sorts of wild things about the
                        purposes of the human brain: not till later did one realize that the average
                        brain was merely an instrument of adjustment, a sort of spirit-level which
                        enabled its owner to keep accurately in line with other people. Henriette
                        ought to rejoice that Hadria had thus come to bow to the superiority of the
                        collective wisdom.
                    But Henriette had her doubts.
                    Hadria carefully selected a shade of silk, went to the light to reassure
                        herself of its correctness, and returned to her easy chair by the fire.
                        Henriette resumed her knitting. She was making stockings for her
                        nephews.
                    “Henriette, don't you think it would be rather a good plan if you were to
                        come and live here and manage affairs—morals, manners, hygiene, and
                        everything?”
                    Henriette's needles stopped abruptly, and a wave of colour came into her
                        face, and a gleam of sudden joy to her eyes.
                    “My dear, what do you mean?”
                    “Hubert, of course, would be only too delighted to have you here, and I want
                        to go away.”
                    “For heaven's sake—”
                    “Not exactly for heaven's sake. For my own sake, I suppose: frankly selfish.
                        It is, perhaps, the particular form that my selfishness takes—an
                        unfortunately conspicuous form. So many of us can have a nice cosy pocket
                        edition that doesn't show. However, that's not the point. I know you would
                        be happier doing this than anything else, and that you would do it
                        perfectly. You have the kind of talent, if I may say so, that makes an admirable ruler. When it has a large
                        political field we call it ‘administrative ability’; when it has a small
                        domestic one, we speak of it as ‘good housekeeping.’ It is a precious
                        quality, wherever it appears. You have no scope for it at present.”
                    Henriette was bewildered, horrified, yet secretly thrilled with joy on her
                        own account. Was there a quarrel? Had any cloud come over the happiness of
                        the home? Hadria laughed and assured her to the contrary. But where was she
                        going, and for how long? What did she intend to do? Did Hubert approve? And
                        could she bear to be away from her children? Hadria thought this was all
                        beside the point, especially as the boys were shortly going to school. The
                        question was, whether Henriette would take the charge.
                    Certainly, if Hadria came to any such mad decision, but that, Henriette
                        hoped, might be averted. What would people say? Further
                        discussion was checked by a call from Mrs. Walker, whom Hadria had the
                        audacity to consult on questions of education and hygiene, leading her, by
                        dexterous generalship, almost over the same ground that she had traversed
                        herself, inducing the unconscious lady to repeat, with amazing accuracy,
                        Hadria's own reproduction of local views.
                    “Now am I without authority in my ideas?” she asked, after Mrs.
                        Walker had departed. Henriette had to admit that she had at least one
                        supporter.
                    “But I believe,” she added, “that your practice is better than your
                        preaching.”
                    “It seems to be an ordinance of Nature,” said Hadria, “that these things
                        shall never correspond.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI.
                    HADRIA said nothing more about her project, and when Henriette
                        alluded to it, answered that it was still unfurnished with detail. She
                        merely wished to know, for certain, Henriette's views. She admitted that
                        there had been some conversation on the subject between Hubert and herself,
                        but would give no particulars. Henriette had to draw her own conclusions
                        from Hadria's haggard looks, and the suppressed excitement of her
                        manner.
                    Henriette always made a point of being present when Professor Fortescue
                        called, as she did not approve of his frequent visits. She noticed that he
                        gave a slight start when Hadria entered. In a few days, she had grown
                        perceptibly thinner. Her manner was restless. A day or two of rain had
                        prevented the usual walks. When it cleared up again, the season had taken a
                        stride. Still more glorious was the array of tree and flower, and their
                        indescribable freshness suggested the idea that they were bathed in the
                        mysterious elixir of life, and that if one touched them, eternal youth would
                        be the reward. Professor Theobald gazed at Hadria with startled and
                        enquiring eyes, when they met again.
                    “You look tired,” he said.
                    “I am, rather. The spring is always a little trying.”
                     Especially this spring, I find.”
                    The gardens of the Priory were now at the very perfection of their beauty.
                        The supreme moment had come of flowing wealth of foliage and delicate
                        splendour of blossom, yet the paleness of green and tenderness of texture
                        were still there.
                    Professor Theobald said suddenly, that Hadria looked as if she were turning over some project very anxiously
                        in her mind—a project on which much depended.
                    “You are very penetrating,” she replied, after a moment's hesitation, “that
                        is exactly what I am doing. When I was a girl, my brothers and
                        sisters and I used to discuss the question of the sovereignty of the will.
                        Most of us believed in it devoutly. We regarded circumstance as an annoying
                        trifle, that no person who respected himself would allow to stand in his
                        way. I want to try that theory and see what comes of it.”
                    “You alarm me, Mrs. Temperley.”
                    “Yes, people always do seem to get alarmed when one attempts to put their
                        favourite theories in practice.”
                    “But really—for a woman—”
                    “The sovereignty of the will is a dangerous doctrine?”
                    “Well, as things are; a young woman, a beautiful woman.”
                    “You recall an interesting memory,” she said.
                    “Ah, that is unkind.”
                    Her smile checked him.
                    “When you fall into a mocking humour, you are quite impracticable.”
                    “I merely smiled,” she said, “sweetly, as I thought.”
                    “It is really cruel; I have not had a word with you for days, and the
                        universe has become a wilderness.”
                    “A pleasant wilderness,” she observed, looking round.
                    “Nature is a delightful background, but a poor subject.”
                    “Do you think so? I often fancy one's general outlook would be nicer, if one
                        had an indistinct human background and a clear foreground of unspoiled
                        Nature. But that may be a jaundiced view.”
                    Hadria went off to meet Lady Engleton, who was coming down the avenue with
                        Madame Bertaux. Professor Theobald instinctively began to follow and then
                        stopped, reddening, as he met the glance of Miss Temperley. He flung himself
                        into conversation with her, and became especially animated when he was
                        passing Hadria, who did not appear to notice him. As both Professors were to
                        leave Craddock Dene at the end of the
                        week, this was the last meeting in the Priory gardens.
                    Miss Temperley found Professor Theobald entertaining, but at times a little
                        incoherent.
                    “Why, there is Miss Du Prel!” exclaimed Henriette. “What an erratic person
                        she is. She went to London the day before yesterday, and now she turns up
                        suddenly without a word of warning.”
                    This confirmed Professor Theobald's suspicions that something serious was
                        going on at the Red House.
                    Valeria explained her return to Hadria, by saying that she had felt so
                        nervous about what the latter might be going to attempt, that she had come
                        back to see if she could be of help, or able to ward off any rash
                        adventure.
                    There was a pleasant open space among the shrubberies, where several seats
                        had been placed to command a dainty view of the garden and lawns, with the
                        house in the distance, and here the party gradually converged, in desultory
                        fashion, coming up and strolling off again, as the fancy inspired them.
                    Cigars were lighted, and a sense of sociability and enjoyment suffused
                        itself, like a perfume, among the group.
                    Lady Engleton was delighted to see Miss Du Prel again. She did so want to
                        continue the hot discussion they were having at the Red House that
                        afternoon, when Mr. Temperley would be so horridly logical. He
                        smiled and twisted his moustache.
                    “We were interrupted by some caller, and had to leave the argument at a most
                        exciting moment.”
                    “An eternally interesting subject!” said Temperley; “what woman is, what she
                        is not.”
                    “My dread is that presently, the need for dissimulation being over, all the
                        delightful mystery will have vanished,” said Professor Theobald. “I should
                        tire, in a day, of a woman I could understand.”
                    “You tempt one to enquire the length of the reign of a satisfactory enigma,”
                        cried Lady Engleton.
                    
                    “Precisely the length of her ability to mystify me,” he replied.
                    “Your future wife ought to be given a hint.”
                    “Oh! a wife, in no case, could hold me: the mere fact that it was my duty to
                        adore her, would be chilling. And when added to that, I knew that she had
                        placed it among the list of her obligations to adore me—well,
                        that would be the climax of disenchantment.”
                    Hubert commended his wisdom in not marrying.
                    “The only person I could conceivably marry would be my cook; in that case
                        there would be no romance to spoil, no vision to destroy.”
                    “I fear this is a cloak for a poor opinion of our sex, Professor.”
                    “On the contrary. I admire your sex too much to think of subjecting them to
                        such an ordeal. I could not endure to regard a woman I had once admired, as
                        a matter of course, a commonplace in my existence.”
                    Henriette plunged headlong into the fray, in opposition to the Professor's
                        heresy. The conversation became general.
                    Professor Theobald fell out of it. He was furtively watching Hadria, whose
                        eyes were strangely bright. She was sitting on the arm of a seat, listening
                        to the talk, with a little smile on her lips. Her hand clasped the back of
                        the seat rigidly, as if she were holding something down.
                    The qualities and defects of the female character were frankly canvassed,
                        each view being held with fervour, but expressed with urbanity. Women were
                            always so and so; women were absolutely never
                        so and so: women felt, without exception, thus and thus; on the contrary,
                        they were entirely devoid of such sentiments. A large experience and wide
                        observation always supported each opinion, and eminent authorities swarmed
                        to the standard.
                    “I do think that women want breadth of view,” said Lady Engleton.
                    “They sometimes want accuracy of statement,” observed Professor Theobald, with a possible second
                        meaning in his words.
                    “It seems to me they lack concentration. They are too versatile,” was
                        Hubert's comment.
                    “They want a sense of honour,” was asserted.
                    “And a sense of humour,” some one added.
                    “They want a feeling of public duty.”
                    “They want a spice of the Devil!” exclaimed Hadria.
                    There was a laugh.
                    Hubert thought this was a lack not likely to be felt for very long. It was
                        under rapid process of cultivation.
                    “Why, it is a commonplace, that if a woman is bad, she is always
                            very bad,” cried Lady Engleton.
                    “A new and intoxicating experience,” said Professor Fortescue. “I
                        sympathize.”
                    “New?” his colleague murmured, with a faint chuckle.
                    “You distress me,” said Henriette.
                    Professor Fortescue held that woman's “goodness” had done as much harm in the
                        world as men's badness. The one was merely the obverse of the other.
                    “This is strange teaching!” cried Lady Engleton.
                    The Professor reminded her that truth was always stranger than fiction.
                    “To the best men,” observed Valeria, “women show all their meanest qualities.
                        It is the fatality of their training.”
                    Professor Theobald had noted the same trait in other subject races.
                    “Pray, don't call us a subject race!” remonstrated Lady Engleton.
                    “Ah, yes, the truth,” cried Hadria, “we starve for the truth.”
                    “You are courageous, Mrs. Temperley.”
                    “Like the Lady of Shallott, I am sick of shadows.”
                    “The bare truth, on this subject, is hard for a woman to face.”
                    “It is harder, in the long run, to waltz eternally round it with averted
                        eyes.”
                    
                    “But, dear me, why is the truth about ourselves hard to face?” demanded
                        Valeria.
                    “I am placed between the horns of a dilemma: one lady clamours for the bare
                        truth: another forbids me to say anything unpleasing.”
                    “I withdraw my objection,” Valeria offered.
                    “The ungracious task shall not be forced upon unwilling chivalry,” said
                        Hadria. “If our conditions have been evil, some scars must be left and may
                        as well be confessed. Among the faults of women, I should place a tendency
                        to trade upon and abuse real chivalry and generosity when they meet them: a
                        survival perhaps from the Stone Age, when the fittest to bully were the
                        surviving elect of society.”
                    Hadria's eyes sparkled with suppressed excitement.
                    “Freedom alone teaches us to meet generosity, generously,” said Professor
                        Fortescue; “you can't get the perpendicular virtues out of any but the
                        really free-born.”
                    “Then do you describe women's virtues as horizontal?” enquired Miss Du Prel,
                        half resentfully.
                    “In so far as they follow the prevailing models. Women's love, friendship,
                        duty, the conduct of life as a whole, speaking very roughly, has been
                        lacking in the quality that I call perpendicular; a quality implying
                        something more than upright.”
                    “You seem to value but lightly the woman's acknowledged readiness for
                        self-sacrifice,” said Lady Engleton. “That, I suppose, is only a despised
                        horizontal virtue.”
                    “Very frequently.”
                    “Because it is generally more or less abject,” Hadria put in. “The sacrifice
                        is made because the woman is a woman. It is the obeisance of sex; the
                        acknowledgment of servility; not a simple desire of service.”
                    “The adorable creature is not always precisely obeisant,” observed
                        Theobald.
                    “No; as I say, she may be capricious and cruel enough to those who treat her
                        justly and generously” (Hadria's eyes
                        instinctively turned towards the distant Priory, and Valeria's followed
                        them); “but ask her to sacrifice herself for nothing; ask her to cherish the
                        selfishness of some bully or fool; assure her that it is her duty to waste
                        her youth, lose her health, and stultify her mind, for the sake of
                        somebody's whim, or somebody's fears, or somebody's absurdity,
                            then she needs no persuasion. She goes to the stake
                        smiling. She swears the flames are comfortably warm, no more. Are they
                        diminishing her in size? Oh no—not at all—besides she was
                        rather large, for a woman. She smiles encouragement to the other chained
                        figures, at the other stakes. Her reward? The sense of exalted worth, of
                        humility; the belief that she has been sublimely virtuous, while the others
                        whom she serves have been—well the less said about them the better. She has
                        done her duty, and sent half a dozen souls to hell!”
                    Henriette uttered a little cry.
                    “Where one expects to meet her!” Hadria added.
                    Professor Theobald was chuckling gleefully.
                    Lady Engleton laughed. “Then, Mrs. Temperley, you do feel rather wicked
                        yourself, although you don't admire our nice, well-behaved, average
                        woman.”
                    “Oh, the mere opposite of an error isn't always truth,” said Hadria.
                    “The weather has run to your head!” cried Henriette.
                    Hadria's eyes kindled. “Yes, it is like wine; clear, intoxicating sparkling
                        wine, and its fumes are mounting! Why does civilisation never provide for
                        these moments?”
                    “What would you have? A modified feast of Dionysius?”
                    “Why not? The whole earth joins in the festival and sings, except mankind.
                        Some frolic of music and a stirring dance!—But ah! I suppose, in this tamed
                        England of ours, we should feel it artificial; we should fear to let
                        ourselves go. But in Greece—if we could fancy ourselves there, shorn of our
                        little local personalities—in some classic grove, on sunlit slopes, all
                        bubbling with the re-birth of flowers and alive with the light, the broad
                        all-flooding light of Greece that her children dreaded to leave more than any other earthly thing, when
                        death threatened—could one not imagine the loveliness of some garlanded
                        dance, and fancy the naiads, and the dryads, and all the hosts of Pan
                        gambolling at one's heels?”
                    “Really, Mrs. Temperley, you were not born for an English village. I should
                        like Mrs. Walker to hear you!”
                    “Mrs. Walker knows better than to listen to me. She too hides somewhere, deep
                        down, a poor fettered thing that would gladly join the revel, if it dared.
                        We all do.”
                    Lady Engleton dwelt joyously on the image of Mrs. Walker, cavorting,
                        garlanded, on a Greek slope, with the nymphs and water-sprites for familiar
                        company.
                    Lady Engleton had risen laughing, and proposed a stroll to Hadria.
                    Henriette, who did not like the tone the conversation was taking, desired to
                        join them.
                    “I never quite know how far you are serious, and how far you are just amusing
                        yourself, Hadria,” said Lady Engleton. “Our talking of Greece reminds me of
                        some remark you made the other day, about Helen. You seemed to me almost to
                        sympathize with her.”
                    Hadria's eyes seemed to be looking across miles of sea to the sunny Grecian
                        land.
                    “If a slave breaks his chains and runs, I am always glad,” she said.
                    “I was talking about Helen.”
                    “So was I. If a Spartan wife throws off her bondage and defies the laws that
                        insult her, I am still more glad.”
                    “But not if she sins?” Henriette coughed, warningly.
                    “Yes; if she sins.”
                    “Oh, Hadria,” remonstrated Henriette, in despair.
                    “I don't see that it follows that Helen did sin, however; one
                        does not know much about her sentiments. She revolted against the tyranny
                        that held her shut in, enslaved, body and soul, in that wonderful Greek
                        world of hers. I am charmed to think that she gave her countrymen so much
                        trouble to assert her husband's right of
                        ownership. It was at his door that the siege of Troy ought to
                        be laid. I only wish elopements always caused as much commotion!” Lady
                        Engleton laughed, and Miss Temperley tried to catch Hadria's eye.
                    “Well, that is a strange idea! And do you really think Helen did
                        not sin? Seriously now.”
                    “I don't know. There is no evidence on that point.” Lady Engleton laughed
                        again.
                    “You do amuse me. Assuming that Helen did not sin, I suppose you would (if
                        only for the sake of paradox) accuse the virtuous Greek matrons—who sat at
                        home, and wove, and span, and bore children—of sinning against the
                        State!”
                    “Certainly,” said Hadria, undismayed. “It was they who insidiously prepared
                        the doom for their country, as they wove and span and bore children, with
                        stupid docility. As surely as an enemy might undermine the foundations of a
                        city till it fell in with a crash, so surely they brought ruin upon
                        Greece.”
                    “Oh, Hadria, you are quite beside yourself to-day!” cried Henriette.
                    “A love of paradox will lead you far!” said Lady Engleton. “We have always
                        been taught to think a nation sound and safe whose women were docile and
                        domestic.”
                    “What nation, under those conditions, has ever failed to fall in with a
                        mighty crash, like my undermined city? Greece herself could not hold out.
                        Ah, yes; we have our revenge! a sweet, sweet revenge!”
                    Lady Engleton was looking much amused and a little dismayed, when she and her
                        companions rejoined the party.
                    “I never heard anyone say so many dreadful things in so short a space of
                        time,” she cried. “You are distinctly shocking.”
                    “I am frank,” said Hadria. “I fancy we should all go about with our hair
                        permanently on end, if we spoke out in chorus.”
                    “I don't quite like to hear you say that, Hadria.”
                    
                    “I mean no harm—merely that every one thinks thoughts and feels impulses that
                        would be startling if expressed in speech. Don't we all know how terrifying
                        a thing speech is, and thought? a chartered libertine.”
                    “Why, you are saying almost exactly what Professor Theobald said the other
                        day, and we were so shocked.”
                    “And yet my meaning has scarcely any relation to his,” Hadria hastened to
                        say. “He meant to drag down all belief in goodness by reminding us of dark
                        moments and hours; by placarding the whole soul with the name of some shadow
                        that moves across it, I sometimes think from another world, some deep
                        under-world that yawns beneath us and sends up blackness and fumes and
                        strange cries.” Hadria's eyes had wandered far away. “Are you never
                        tormented by an idea, an impression that you know does not belong to
                        you?”
                    Lady Engleton gave a startled negative. “Professor Fortescue, come and tell
                        me what you think of this strange doctrine?”
                    “If we had to be judged by our freedom from rushes of evil impulse, rather
                        than by our general balance of good and evil wishing, I think those would
                        come out best, who had fewest thoughts and feelings of any kind to record.”
                        The subject attracted a small group.
                    “Unless goodness is only a negative quality,” Valeria pointed out, “a mere
                            absence, it must imply a soul that lives and struggles, and
                        if it lives and struggles, it is open to the assaults of the devil.”
                    “Yes, and it is liable to go under too sometimes, one must not forget,” said
                        Hadria, “although most people profess to believe so firmly in the triumph of
                        the best—how I can't conceive, since the common life of every day is an
                        incessant harping on the moral: the smallest, meanest, poorest, thinnest,
                        vulgarest qualities in man and woman are those selected for survival, in the
                        struggle for existence.”
                    There was a cry of remonstrance from idealists.
                    “But what else do we mean when we talk by common consent of the world's baseness, harshness,
                        vulgarity, injustice? It means surely—and think of it!—that it is composed
                        of men and women with the best of them killed out, as a nerve burnt away by
                        acid; a heart won over to meaner things than it set out beating for; a mind
                        persuaded to nibble at edges of dry crust that might have grown stout and
                        serviceable on generous diet, and mellow and inspired with noble
                        vintage.”
                    “You really are shockingly Bacchanalian to-day,” cried Lady Engleton.
                    Hadria laughed. “Metaphorically, I am a toper. The wonderful clear sparkle,
                        the subtle flavour, the brilliancy of wine, has for me a strange
                        fascination; it seems to signify so much in life that women lose.”
                    “True. What beverage should one take as a type of what they gain by the
                        surrender?” asked Lady Engleton, who was disposed to hang back towards
                        orthodoxy, in the presence of her uncompromising neighbour.
                    “Oh, toast and water!” replied Hadria.
                
            
            
            
                Part III.
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII.
                    THE speed was glorious. Back flashed field and hill and copse, and
                        the dear “companionable hedgeways.” Back flew iterative telegraph posts with
                        Herculean swing, into the Past, looped together in rhythmic movement,
                        marking the pulses of old Time. On, with rack and roar, into the mysterious
                        Future. One could sit at the window and watch the machinery of Time's
                        foundry at work; the hammers of his forge beating, beating, the wild sparks
                        flying, the din and chaos whirling round one's bewildered brain;—Past
                        becoming Present, Present melting into Future, before one's eyes. To sit and
                        watch the whirring wheels; to think “Now it is thus and thus; presently,
                        another slice of earth and sky awaits me”—ye Gods, it is not to be
                        realized!
                    The wonder of the flying land—England, England with her gentle homesteads,
                        her people of the gentle voices; and the unknown wonder of that other land,
                        soon to change its exquisite dream-features for the still more thrilling,
                        appealing marvel of reality—could it all be true? Was this the response of
                        the genius of the ring, the magic ring that we call will? And
                        would the complaisant genius always appear and obey one's behests, in this
                        strange fashion?
                    Thoughts ran on rhythmically, in the steady, flashing movement through
                        verdant England. The Real! that was the truly exquisite, the
                        truly great, the true realm of the imagination! What imagination was ever
                        born to conceive or compass it?
                    
                    A rattle under a bridge, a roar through a tunnel, and on again, through
                        Kentish orchards. A time of blossoming. Disjointed, delicious impressions
                        followed one another in swift succession, often superficially incoherent,
                        but threaded deep, in the stirred consciousness, on a silver cord:—the unity
                        of the creation was as obvious as its multiplicity.
                    Images of the Past joined hands with visions of the Future. In these sweet
                        green meadows, men had toiled, as thralls, but a few lifetimes ago, and they
                        had gathered together, as Englishmen do, first to protest and reasonably
                        demand, and then to buy their freedom with their lives. Their country-woman
                        sent a message of thanksgiving, backward through the centuries, to these
                        stout champions of the land's best heritage, and breathed an aspiration to
                        be worthy of the kinship that she claimed.
                    The rattle and roar grew into a symphony—full, rich, magnificent, and then,
                        with a rush, came a stirring musical conception: it seized the
                        imagination.
                    Oh, why were they stopping? It was a little country station, but many
                        passengers were on the platform. A careworn looking woman and a little girl
                        entered the carriage, and the little girl fixed her eyes on her
                        fellow-traveller with singular persistence. Then the more practical features
                        of the occasion came into view, and all had an enthralling quality of
                        reality—poetry. The sound of the waiting engine breathing out its white
                        smoke into the brilliant air, the powerful creature quiescent but ready,
                        with the turn of a handle, to put forth its slumbering might; the crunching
                        of footsteps on the gravel, the wallflowers and lilacs in the little station
                        garden, the blue of the sky, and ah! the sweetness of the air when one leant
                        out to look along the interminable straight line of rails, leading—whither?
                        Even the very details of one's travelling gear: the tweed gown meet for
                        service, the rug and friendly umbrella, added to the feeling of overflowing
                        satisfaction. The little girl stared more fixedly than ever. A smile and the
                        offer of a flower made her look down, for a minute, but the gaze was
                        resumed. Wherefore? Was the inward tumult
                        too evident in the face? Well, no matter. The world was beautiful and
                        wide!
                    The patient monster began to move again, with a gay whistle, as if he enjoyed
                        this chase across country, on the track of Time. He was soon at full speed
                        again, on his futile race: a hapless idealist in pursuit of lost dreams. The
                        little girl watched the dawn of a smile on the face of the kind, pretty lady
                        who had given her the flower. A locomotive figuring as an idealist! Where
                        would one's fancy lead one to next?
                    Ah the sea! heaving busily, and flashing under the morning radiance. Would
                        they have a good crossing? The wind was fresh. How dreamy and bright and
                        windy the country looked, and how salt was the sea-breeze! Very soon they
                        would arrive at Folkestone. Rugs and umbrellas and hand-bags must be
                        collected. The simple, solid commonplace of it all, touched some wholesome
                        spring of delight. What a speed the train was going at! One could scarcely
                        stand in the jolting carriage. Old Time must not make too sure of his
                        victory. One felt a wistful partisanship for his snorting rival, striving
                        for ever to accomplish the impossible. The labouring visionary was not
                        without significance to aspiring mortals.
                    The outskirts of the town were coming in sight; grey houses bleakly climbing
                        chalky heights. It would be well to put on a thick overcoat at once. It was
                        certain to be cold in the Channel.
                    Luckily Hannah had a head on her shoulders, and could be trusted to follow
                        the directions that had been given her.
                    The last five minutes seemed interminable, but they did come to an end. There
                        was an impression of sweet salt air, of wind and voices, of a hurrying
                        crowd; occasionally a French sentence pronounced by one of the officials,
                        reminiscent of a thousand dreams and sights of foreign lands; and then the
                        breezy quay and waiting steamboat.
                    The sound of that quiet, purposeful hiss of the steam sent a thrill along the nerves. Hannah and her charge
                        were safely on board; the small luggage followed, and lastly Hadria
                        traversed the narrow bridge, wondering when the moment would arrive for
                        waking up and finding herself in her little bedroom at Craddock Dene? What
                        was she thinking of? Dream? This was no dream, this bold, blue,
                        dancing water, this living sunshine, this salt and savour and movement and
                        brilliancy!
                    The other was the dream; it seemed to be drifting away already.
                        The picture of the village and the house and the meadows, and the low line
                        of the hills was recalled as through a veil; it would not stand up and face
                        the emphatic present. At the end of a few months, would there be anything
                        left of her connexion with the place where she had passed six—seven years of
                        her life? and such years! They had put scars on her soul, as deep and
                        ghastly as ever red-hot irons had marked on tortured flesh. Perhaps it was
                        because of this rabid agony undergone, that now she seemed to have scarcely
                        any clinging to her home,—for the present at any rate. And she knew that she
                        left only sorrow for conventional disasters behind her. The joy of freedom
                        and its intoxication drowned every other feeling. It was sheer relief to be
                        away, to stretch oneself in mental liberty and leisure, to look round at
                        earth and sky and the hurrying crowds, in quiet enjoyment; to possess one's
                        days, one's existence for the first time, in all these long years! It was as
                        the home-coming of a dispossessed heir. This freedom did not strike her as
                        strange, but as obvious, as familiar. It was the first condition of a life
                        that was worth living. And yet never before had she known it. Ernest and
                        Fred and even Austin had enjoyed it from boyhood, and in far greater
                        completeness than she could ever hope to possess it, even now.
                    Yet even this limited, this comparative freedom, which a man could afford to
                        smile at, was intoxicating. Heavens! under what a leaden cloud of little
                        obligations and restraints, and loneliness and pain, she had been living!
                        And for what purpose? To make obeisance to
                        a phantom public, not because she cared one iota for the phantom or its
                        opinions, but because husband and parents and relations were terrified at
                        the prospect of a few critical and disapproving remarks, that they would not
                        even hear! How mad it all was! It was not true feeling, not affection, that
                        prompted Hubert's opposition; it was not care for his real happiness that
                        inspired Henriette with such ardour in this cause; they would both be
                        infinitely happier and more harmonious in Hadria's absence. The whole source
                        of their distress was the fear of what people would say when the separation
                        became known to the world. That was the beginning and the end of the matter.
                        Why could not the stupid old world mind its own business, in heaven's name?
                        Good people, especially good women of the old type, would all counsel the
                        imbecile sacrifice. They would all condemn this step. Indeed, the sacrifice
                        that Hadria had refused to make, was so common, so much a matter of course,
                        that her refusal appeared startling and preposterous: scarcely less
                        astonishing than if a neighbour at dinner, requesting one to pass the salt,
                        had been met with a rude “I shan't.”
                    “A useful phrase at times, of the nature of a tonic, amidst our enervating
                        civilisation,” she reflected.
                    There was a tramping of passengers up and down the deck. People walked
                        obliquely, with head to windward. Draperies fluttered; complexions verged
                        towards blue. Only two ladies who had abandoned hope from the beginning,
                        suffered from the crossing. The kindly sailors occupied their leisure in
                        bringing tarpaulins to the distressed.
                    “Well, Hannah, how are you getting on?”
                    Hannah looked forward ardently to the end of the journey, but her charge
                        seemed delighted with the new scene.
                    “Have you ever been to France before, ma'am?” Hannah asked, perhaps noticing
                        the sparkle of her employer's eye and the ring in her voice.
                    “Yes, once; I spent a week in Paris with Mr. Temperley, and we went on afterwards to the Pyrenees. That
                        was just before we took the Red House.”
                    “It must have been beautiful,” said Hannah. “And did you take the babies,
                        ma'am?”
                    “They were neither of them in existence then,” replied Mrs. Temperley. A
                        strange fierce light passed through her eyes for a second, but Hannah did
                        not notice it. Martha's shawl was blowing straight into her eyes, and the
                        nurse was engaged in arranging it more comfortably.
                    The coast of France had become clear, some time ago; they were making the
                        passage very quickly to-day. Soon the red roofs of Boulogne were to be
                        distinguished, with the grey dome of the cathedral on the hill-top.
                        Presently, the boat had arrived in the bright old town, and every detail of
                        outline and colour was standing forth brilliantly, as if the whole scene had
                        been just washed over with clear water and all the tints were wet.
                    The first impression was keen. The innumerable differences from English forms
                        and English tones sprang to the eye. A whiff of foreign smell and a sound of
                        foreign speech reached the passengers at about the same moment. The very
                        houses looked unfamiliarly built, and even the letters of printed names of
                        hotels and shops had a frivolous, spindly appearance—elegant but frail. The
                        air was different from English air. Some bouillon and a slice of fowl were very acceptable at the
                        restaurant at the station, after the business of examining the luggage was
                        over. Hannah, evidently nourishing a sense of injury against the natives for
                        their eccentric jargon, and against the universe for the rush and discomfort
                        of the last quarter of an hour, was disposed to express her feelings by a
                        marked lack of relish for her food. She regarded Hadria's hearty appetite
                        with a disdainful expression. Martha ate bread and butter and fruit. She was
                        to have some milk that had been brought for her, when they were en route again.
                    “Tout le monde en voiture!” Within five
                        minutes, the train was puffing across the
                        wastes of blowing sand that ran along the coast, beyond the town. The child,
                        who had become accustomed to the noise and movement, behaved better than had
                        been expected. She seemed to take pleasure in looking out of the window at
                        the passing trees. Hannah was much struck with this sign of awakening
                        intelligence. It was more than the good nurse showed herself. She scarcely
                        condescended to glance at the panorama of French fields, French hills and
                        streams that were rushing by. How pale and ethereal they were, these Gallic
                        coppices and woodlands! And with what a dainty lightness the foliage spread
                        itself to the sun, French to its graceful finger-tips! That grey old house,
                        with high lichen-stained roof and narrow windows—where but in sunny France
                        could one see its like?—and the little farmsteads and villages, full of
                        indescribable charm. One felt oneself in a land of artists. There was no
                        inharmonious, no unfitting thing anywhere. Man had wedded himself to Nature,
                        and his works seemed to receive her seal and benediction. English landscape
                        was beautiful, and it had a particular charm to be found nowhere else in the
                        world; but in revenge, there was something here that England could not
                        boast. Was it fanciful to see in the characteristics of vegetation and
                        scenery, the origin or expression of the difference of the two races at
                        their greatest?
                    “Ah, if I were only a painter!”
                    They were passing some fields where, in the slanting rays of the sun,
                        peasants in blue blouses and several women were bending over their toil. It
                        was a subject often chosen by French artists. Hadria understood why. One of
                        the labourers stood watching the train, and she let her eyes rest on the
                        patient figure till she was carried beyond his little world. If she could
                        have painted that scene just as she saw it, all the sadness and mystery of
                        the human lot would have stood forth eloquently in form and colour; these a
                        magic harmony, not without some inner kinship with the spirit of man at its
                        noblest.
                    
                    What was he thinking, that toil-bent peasant, as the train flashed by? What
                        tragedy or comedy was he playing on his rural stage? Hadria sat down and
                        shut her eyes, dazzled by the complex mystery and miracle of life, and
                        almost horrified at the overwhelming thought of the millions of these
                        obscure human lives burning themselves out, everywhere, at every instant,
                        like so many altar-candles to the unknown God!
                    “And each one of them takes himself as seriously as I take myself: perhaps
                        more seriously. Ah, if one could but pause to smile at one's tragic moments,
                        or still better, at one's sublime ones. But it can't be done. A remembrancer
                        would have to be engaged, to prevent lapses into the sublime,—and how
                        furious one would be when he nudged one, with his eternal: ‘Beware!’”
                    It was nearly eight o'clock when the train plunged among the myriad lights of
                        the great city. The brilliant beacon of the Eiffel Tower sat high up in the
                        sky, like an exile star.
                    Gaunt and grim was the vast station, with its freezing purplish electric
                        light. Yet even here, to Hadria's stirred imagination, there was a certain
                        quality in the Titanic building, which removed it from the vulgarity of
                        English utilitarian efforts of the same order.
                    In a fanciful mood, one might imagine a tenth circle of the Inferno, wherein
                        those stern grey arches should loftily rise, in blind and endless sequence,
                        limbing an abode of horror, a place of punishment for those, empty-hearted,
                        who had lived without colour and sunshine, in voluntary abnegation, caring
                        only for gain and success.
                    The long delay in the examination of the luggage, the fatigue of the journey,
                        tended to increase the disposition to regard the echoing edifice, with its
                        cold hollow reverberations, as a Circle of the Doomed. It was as if they
                        passed from the realm of the Shades through the Gates of Life, when at
                        length the cab rattled out of the courtyard of the station, and turned
                        leftwards into the brilliant streets of Paris. It was hard to realize that
                        all this stir and light and life had been going on night after night, for all these years, during
                        which one had sat in the quiet drawing-room at Craddock Dene, trying
                        wistfully, hopelessly, to grasp the solid fact of an unknown vast reality,
                        through a record here and there. The journey was a long one to the Rue
                        Boissy d'Anglas, but tired as she was, Hadria did not wish it shorter. Even
                        Hannah was interested in the brilliantly lighted shops and cafés and the splendour of the boulevards. Now
                        and again, the dark deserted form of a church loomed out, lonely, amidst the
                        gaiety of Parisian street-life. Some electric lamp threw a distant gleam
                        upon calm classic pillars, which seemed to hold aloof, with a quality of
                        reserve rarely to be noticed in things Parisian. Hadria greeted it with a
                        feeling of gratitude.
                    The great Boulevard was ablaze and swarming with life. The cafés were full; the gilt and mirrors and the
                        crowds of consommateurs within, all
                        visible as one passed along the street, while, under the awning outside,
                        crowds were sitting smoking, drinking, reading the papers.
                    Was it really possible that only this morning, those quiet English fields had
                        been dozing round one, those sleepy villagers spreading their slow words
                        out, in expressing an absence of idea, over the space of time in which a
                        Parisian conveyed a pocket philosophy?
                    The cabman directed his vehicle down the Rue Royale, passing the stately
                        Madeleine, with its guardian sycamores, and out into the windy spaciousness
                        of the Place de la Concorde.
                    A wondrous city! Hannah pointed out the electric light of the Eiffel Tower to
                        her charge, and Martha put out her small hands, demanding the toy on the
                        spot.
                    The festooned lights of the Champs Elysées swung themselves up, in narrowing
                        line, till they reached the pompous arch at the summit, and among the rich
                        trees of those Elysian fields gleamed the festive lamps of cafés chantants.
                    “Si Madame desire encore quelque chose?”
                        The neat maid, in picturesque white cap and apron, stood with her hand on
                        the door of the little bedroom, on one of the highest storeys of the pension. Half of one of the long windows had been set open,
                        and the sounds of the rolling of vehicles over the smooth asphalte, mingled
                        with those of voices, were coming up, straight and importunate, into the
                        dainty bedroom. The very sounds seemed nearer and clearer in this keen-edged
                        land. The bed stood in one corner, canopied with white and blue; a thick
                        carpet gave a sense of luxury and deadened the tramp of footsteps; a marble
                        mantel-piece was surmounted by a mirror, and supported a handsome bronze
                        clock and two bronze ornaments. The furniture was of solid mahogany. A
                        nameless French odour pervaded the atmosphere, delicate, subtle, but
                        unmistakeable. And out of the open window, one could see a series of other
                        lighted windows, all of exactly the same tall graceful design, opening in
                        the middle by the same device and the same metal handle that had to be
                        turned in order to open or close the window. Within, the rooms obviously
                        modelled themselves on the one unvarying ideal. A few figures could be seen
                        coming and going, busy at work or play. Above the steep roofs, a blue-black
                        sky was alive with brilliant stars.
                    “Merci;” Madame required nothing more.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII.
                    
                        
                            “... Rushes life on a race
                            As the clouds the clouds chase;
                            And we go,
                            And we drop like the fruits of the tree,
                            Even we,
                            Even so.”
                        
                    
                    JUST at first, it was a sheer impossibility to do anything but bask
                        and bathe in the sunny present, to spend the days in wandering incredulously
                        through vernal Paris, over whose bursting freshness and brilliancy the white
                        clouds seemed to be driven, with the same joy of life. The city was crammed;
                        the inhabitants poured forth in swarms to enjoy, in true French fashion, the
                        genial warmth and the universal awakening after the long capricious winter.
                        It was actually hot in the sun, and fresh light clothing became a luxury,
                        like a bath after a journey. The year had raised its siege, and there was
                        sudden amity between man and Nature. Shrivelled man could relax the tension
                        of resistance to cold and damp and change, and go forth into the sun with
                        cordial insouciance. In many of the faces
                        might be read this kindly amnesty, although there were some so set and fixed
                        with past cares that not even the soft hand of a Parisian spring could
                        smooth away the lines, or even touch the spirit.
                    These Hadria passed with an aching pity. Circumstance had been to them a
                        relentless taskmaster. Perhaps they had not rubbed the magic ring of will,
                        and summoned the obedient genius. Perhaps circumstance had forbidden them
                        even the rag wherewith to rub—or the impulse.
                    Sallying forth from the pension, Hadria
                        would sometimes pause, for a moment, at
                        the corner of the street, where it opened into the Place de la Concorde,
                        irresolute, because of the endless variety of possible ways to turn, and
                        places to visit. She seldom made definite plans the day before, unless it
                        were for the pleasure of changing them. The letter of introduction to Madame
                        Vauchelet had remained unpresented. The sense of solitude, combined for the
                        first time with that of freedom, was too delightful to forego. One must have
                        time to realize and appreciate the sudden calm and serenity; the sudden
                        absence of claims and obstructions and harassing criticisms. Heavens, what a
                        price people consented to pay for the privilege of human ties! what hard
                        bargains were driven in the kingdom of the affections! Thieves,
                        extortionists, usurers—and in the name of all the virtues!
                    “Yes, solitude has charms!” Hadria inwardly exclaimed, as she stood watching
                        the coming and going of people, the spouting of fountains, the fluttering of
                        big 
                            sycamore
                            scyamore
                         leaves in the Champs Elysées.
                    Unhappily, the solitude made difficulties. But meanwhile there was a large
                        field to be explored, where these difficulties did not arise, or could be
                        guarded against. Her sex was a troublesome obstruction. “One does not come
                        of centuries of chattel-women for nothing!” she wrote to Algitha. Society
                        bristled with insults, conscious and unconscious. Nor had one lived the
                        brightest, sweetest years of one's life tethered and impounded, without
                        feeling the consequences when the tether was cut. There were dreads,
                        shrinkings, bewilderments, confusions to encounter; the difficulties of
                        pilotage in unknown seas, of self-knowledge, and guidance suddenly needed in
                        new ranges of the soul; fresh temptations, fresh possibilities to deal with;
                        everything untested, the alphabet of worldly experience yet to learn.
                    But all this was felt with infinitely greater force a little later, when the
                        period of solitude was over, and Hadria found herself in the midst of a
                        little society whose real codes and ideas she had gropingly to learn.
                        Unfamiliar (in any practical sense) with
                        life, even in her own country, she had no landmarks or finger-posts, of any
                        kind, in this new land. Her sentiment had never been narrowly British, but
                        now she realized her nationality over-keenly; she felt herself almost
                        grotesquely English, and had a sense of insular clumsiness amidst a
                        uprightly, dexterous people. Conscious of a thousand illusive, but very real
                        differences in point of view, and in nature, between the two nations, she
                        had a baffled impression of walking among mysteries and novelties that she
                        could not grasp. She began to be painfully conscious of the effects of the
                        narrow life that she had led, and of the limitations that had crippled her
                        in a thousand ways hitherto scarcely realized.
                    “One begins to learn everything too late,” she wrote to Algitha. “This ought
                        all to have been familiar long ago. I don't know anything about the world in
                        which I live. I have never before caught so much as a distant glimpse of it.
                        And even now there are strange thick wrappings from the past that cling
                        tight round and hold me aloof, strive as I may to strip off that past-made
                        personality, and to understand, by touch, what things are made of. I feel as
                        if I would risk anything in order to really know that. Why should a woman
                        treat herself as if she were Dresden china? She is more or less insulted and
                        degraded whatever happens, especially if she obeys what our generation is
                        pleased to call the moral law. The more I see of life, the more hideous
                        seems the position that women hold in relation to the social structure, and
                        the more sickening the current nonsense that is talked about us and our
                        ‘missions’ and ‘spheres.’ It is so feeble, so futile, to try to ornament an
                        essentially degrading fact. It is such insolence to talk to us—good heavens,
                        to us!—about holiness and sacredness, when men (to whom surely
                        a sense of humour has been denied) divide their women into two great
                        classes, both of whom they insult and enslave, insisting peremptorily on the
                        existence of each division, but treating one class as private and the other
                        as public property. One might as well talk to driven cattle in the shambles
                        about their ‘sacred mission’ as to women.
                        It is an added mockery, a gratuitous piece of insolence.”
                    Having been, from childhood, more or less at issue with her surroundings,
                        Hadria had never fully realized their power upon her personality. But now
                        daily a fresh recognition of her continued imprisonment, baffled her attempt
                        to look at things with clear eyes. She struggled to get round and beyond
                        that past-fashioned self, not merely in order to see truly, but in order to
                        see at all. And in doing so, she ran the risk of letting go what she might
                        have done better to hold. She felt painfully different from these people
                        among whom she found herself. Her very trick of pondering over things sent
                        her spinning to hopeless distances. They seemed to ponder so wholesomely
                        little. Their intelligence was devoted to matters of the moment; they were
                        keen and well-finished and accomplished. Hadria used to look at them in
                        astonishment. How did these quick-witted people manage to escape the
                        importunate inquisitive demon, the familiar spirit, who pursued her
                        incessantly with his queries and suggestions? He would stare up from river
                        and street and merry gardens; his haunting eyes looked mockingly out of
                        green realms of stirring foliage, and his voice was like a sardonic echo to
                        the happy voices of the children, laughing at their play under the
                        flickering shadows, of mothers discussing their cares and interests, of men
                        in blouses, at work by the water-side, or solemn, in frock-coats, with
                        pre-occupations of business and bread-winning. The demon had his own
                        reflections on all these seemingly ordinary matters, and so bizarre were
                        they at times, so startling and often so terrible, that one found oneself
                        shivering in full noontide, or smiling, or thrilled with passionate pity at
                        “the sad, strange ways of men.”
                    It was sweet to stretch one's cramped wings to the sun, to ruffle and spread
                        them, as a released bird will, but it was startling to find already little
                        stiff habits arisen, little creaks and hindrances never suspected, that made
                        flight in the high air not quite effortless and serene.
                    
                    The Past is never past; immortal as the Gods, it lives enthroned in the
                        Present, and sets its limits and lays its commands.
                    Cases have been known of a man blind from birth being restored to sight, at
                        mature age. For a time, the appearance of objects was strange and
                        incomprehensible. Their full meaning was not conveyed to him; they remained
                        riddles. He could not judge the difference between near and far, between
                        solid and liquid; he had no experience, dating from childhood, of the
                        apparent smallness of distant things, of the connexion between the
                        impression given to the touch by solids and their effect on the eye. He had
                        all these things to learn. A thousand trifling associations, of which those
                        with normal senses are scarcely conscious, had to be stumblingly acquired,
                        as a child learns to connect sound and sight, in learning to read.
                    Such were the changes of consciousness that Hadria found herself going
                        through; only realising each phase of the process after it was over, and the
                        previous confusion of vision had been itself revealed, by the newly and
                        often painfully acquired coordinating skill.
                    But, as generally happens, in the course of passing from ignorance to
                        knowledge, the intermediate stage was chaotic. Objects loomed up large and
                        indistinct, as through a mist; vague forms drifted by, half revealed, to
                        melt away again; here and there were clear outlines and solid impressions,
                        to be deemed trustworthy and given a place of honour; thence a disproportion
                        in the general conception; it being almost beyond human power to allow
                        sufficiently for that which is unknown.
                    For some time, however, the dominant impression on Hadria's mind was of her
                        own gigantic ignorance. This ignorance was far more confusing and even
                        misleading than it had been when its proportions were less defined. The
                        faint twinkle of light revealed the dusky outline, bewildering and
                        discouraging the imagination. Intuitive knowledge was disturbed by the
                        incursion of scraps of disconnected experience. This condition of mind made her an almost
                        insoluble pyschological problem. Since she was evidently a woman of
                        pronounced character, her bewilderment and tentitive attitude were not
                        allowed for. Her actions were regarded as deliberate and cool-headed, when
                        often they would be the outcome of sheer confusion, or chance, or perhaps of
                        a groping experimental effort.
                    The first three weeks in Paris had been given up to enjoying the new
                        conditions of existence. But now practical matters claimed consideration.
                        The pension in the Rue Boissy d'Anglas was
                        not suitable as a permanent abode. Rooms must be looked for, combining
                        cheapness with a good situation, within easy distance of the scene of
                        Hadria's future musical studies, and also within reach of some park or
                        gardens for Martha's benefit.
                    This ideal place of abode was at last found. It cost rather more than Hadria
                        had wished to spend on mere lodging, but otherwise it seemed perfect. It was
                        in a quiet street between the Champs Elysées and the river. Two great
                        thoroughfares ran, at a respectful distance, on either side, with omnibuses
                        always passing. Hadria could be set down within a few minutes' walk of the
                        School of Music, or, if she liked to give the time, could walk the whole way
                        to her morning's work, through some of the most charming parts of Paris. As
                        for Martha, she was richly provided with playgrounds. The Bois could be
                        quickly reached, and there were always the Champs Elysées or the walk
                        beneath the chestnuts by the river, along the Cours de la Reine and the
                        length of the quays. Even Hannah thought the situation might do. Hadria had
                        begun her studies at the School of Music, and found the steady work not only
                        a profound, though somewhat stern enjoyment, but a solid backbone to her new
                        existence, giving it cohesion and form. Recreation deserved its name, after
                        work of this kind. Any lurking danger of too great speculative restlessness
                        disappeared. There had been a moment when the luxurious joy of mere
                        wandering observation and absorption, threatened to become overwhelming, and to loosen some of the
                        rivets of the character.
                    But work was to the sum-total of impulse what the central weight was to one
                        of Martha's toys: a leaden ballast that always brought the balance right
                        again, however wildly the little tyrant might swing the creature off the
                        perpendicular. When Hadria used to come in, pleasantly tired with her
                        morning's occupation, and the wholesome heat of the sun, to take her simple
                            déjeuner in the little apartment with
                        Martha, a frivolous five minutes would often be spent by the two in
                        endeavouring to overcome the rigid principles of that well-balanced
                        plaything. But always the dead weight at its heart frustrated their
                        attempts. Martha played the most inconsiderate pranks with its centre of
                        gravity, but quite in vain. When a little French boy from the étage above was allowed to come and play with
                        Martha, she proceeded to experiment upon his centre of gravity
                        in the same way, and seemed much surprised when Jean Paul Auguste not only
                        howled indignantly, but didn't swing up again after he was over-turned. He
                        remained supine, and had to be reinstated by Hadria and Hannah, and
                        comforted with sweetmeats. Martha's logic received one of its first checks.
                        She evidently made up her mind that logic was a fallacious mode of
                        inference, and determined to abandon it for the future. These rebuffs in
                        infancy, Hadria conjectured, might account for much!
                    About three weeks passed in almost pure enjoyment and peace; and then it was
                        discovered that the cost of living, in spite of an extremely simple diet,
                        was such as might have provided epicurean luxuries for a family of ten.
                        Hadria's enquiries among her acquaintances elicited cries of consternation.
                        Obviously the landlady, who did the marketing, must be cheating on a royal
                        scale, and there was nothing for it but to move. Hadria suggested to Madame
                        Vauchelet, whose advice she always sought in practical matters, that perhaps
                        the landlady might be induced to pursue her lucrative art in moderation; could she not put it honestly down in the
                        bill “Peculation—so much per week?”
                    Madame Vauchlelet was horrified. “Impossible!” she cried; one must seek
                        another apartment. If only Hannah understood French and could do the
                        marketing herself. But Hannah scorned the outlandish lingo, and had a poor
                        opinion of the nation as a whole.
                    It was fatiguing and somewhat discouraging work to begin, all over again, the
                        quest of rooms, especially with the difficulty about the landlady always in
                        view, and no means of ascertaining her scale of absorption. It really seemed
                        a pity that it could not be mentioned as an extra, like coal and lights.
                        Then one would know what one was about. This uncertain liability, with an
                        extremely limited income, which was likely to prove insufficient unless some
                        addition could be made to it, was trying to the nerves.
                    In order to avoid too great anxiety, Hadria had to make up her mind to a less
                        attractive suite of rooms, farther out of town, and she found it desirable
                        to order many of the comestibles herself. Madame Vauchelet was untiring in
                        her efforts to help and advise. She initiated Hadria into the picturesque
                        mysteries of Parisian housekeeping. It was amusing to go to the shops and
                        markets with this shrewd Frenchwoman, and very enlightening as to the method
                        of living cheaply and well. Hadria began to think wistfully of a more
                        permanent ménage in this entrancing
                        capital, where there were still worlds within worlds to explore. She
                        questioned Madame Vauchlelet as to the probable cost of a femme de ménage . Madame quickly ran through
                        some calculations and pronounced a sum alluringly small. Since the landlady
                        difficulty was so serious, and made personal superintendence necessary, it
                        seemed as if one might as well have the greater comfort and independence of
                        this more home-like arrangement.
                    Madame Vauchelet recommended an excellent woman who would cook and market,
                        and, with Hannah's help, easily do all that was necessary. After many
                        calculations and consultations with Madame
                        Vauchelet, Hadria finally decided to rent, for three months, a cheerful
                        little suite of rooms near the Arc de Triomphe.
                    Madame Vauchelet drank a cup of tea in the little salon, with quiet heroism, not liking to refuse Hadria's
                        offer of the friendly beverage. But she wondered at the powerful physique of
                        the nation that could submit to the trial daily.
                    Hadria was brimming over with pleasure in her new home, which breathed Paris
                        from every pore. She had already surrounded herself with odds and ends of
                        her own, with books and a few flowers. If only this venture turned out well,
                        how delightful would be the next few months. Hadria did not clearly look
                        beyond that time. To her, it seemed like a century. Her only idea as to the
                        farther future was an abstract resolve to let nothing short of absolute
                        compulsion persuade her to renounce her freedom, or subject herself to
                        conditions that made the pursuit of her art impossible. How to carry out the
                        resolve, in fact and detail, was a matter to consider when the time came. If
                        one were to consider future difficulties as well as deal with immediate
                        ones, into what crannies and interstices were the affairs of the moment to
                        be crammed?
                    There has probably never been a human experience of even a few months of
                        perfect happiness, of perfect satisfaction with conditions, even among the
                        few men and women who know how to appreciate the bounty of Fate, when she is
                        generous, and to take the sting out of minor annoyances by treating them
                        lightly. Hadria was ready to shrug her shoulders at legions of these, so
                        long as the main current of her purpose were not diverted. But she could not
                        steel herself against the letters that she received from England.
                    Everyone was deeply injured but bravely bearing up. Her family was a stricken
                        and sorrowing family. Being naturally heroic, it said little but thought the
                        more. Relations whose names Hadria scarcely remembered, seemed to have waked
                        up at the news of her departure and claimed their share of the woe. Obscure
                        Temperleys raised astounded heads and
                        mourned. Henriette wrote that she was really annoyed at the way in which
                        everybody was talking about Hadria's conduct. It was most uncomfortable. She
                        hoped Hadria was able to be happy. Hubert was ready to forgive her and to
                        receive her back, in spite of everything. Henriette entreated her to return;
                        for her own sake, for Hubert's sake, for the children's. They were just
                        going off to school, poor little boys. Henriette, although so happy at the
                        Red House, was terribly grieved at this sad misunderstanding. It seemed so
                        strange, so distressing. Henriette had thoroughly enjoyed looking after dear
                        Hubert and the sweet children. They were in splendid health. She had been
                        very particular about hygiene. Hubert and she had seen a good deal of the
                        Engletons lately. How charming Lady Engleton was! So much tact. She was
                        advanced in her ideas, only she never allowed them to be intrusive. She
                        seemed just like everybody else. She hated to make herself conspicuous; the
                        very ideal of a true lady, if one might use the much-abused word. Professor
                        Fortescue was reported to be still far from well. Professor Theobald had not
                        taken the Priory after all. It was too large. It looked so deserted and
                        melancholy now.
                    Henriette always finished her letters with an entreaty to Hadria to return.
                        People were talking so. They suspected the truth; although, of course, one
                        had hoped that the separation would be supposed to be temporary—as indeed
                        Henriette trusted it would prove.
                    Madame Bertaux, who had just returned from England to her beloved Paris,
                        reported to Hadria, when she called on the latter in her new abode, that
                        everyone was talking about the affair with as much eagerness as if the fate
                        of the empire had depended on it. Madame Bertaux recommended indifference
                        and silence. She observed, in her sharp, good-natured, impatient way, that
                        reforming confirmed drunkards, converting the heathen, making saints out of
                        sinners, or a silk purse out of a sow's ear, would be mere child's play
                        compared with the task of teaching the average idiot to mind his own
                        business.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV.
                    THE new ménage went well. Therèse
                        was a treasure, and Martha's willing slave. Expenses were kept fairly
                        reasonable by her care and knowledge. Still it must not be forgotten that
                        the little income needed supplementing. Hadria had been aware of this risk
                        from the first, but had faced it, regarding it as the less perilous of the
                        alternatives that she had to choose between. The income was small, but it
                        was her own absolutely, and she must live on that, with such auxiliary sums
                        as she could earn. She hoped to be able to make a little money by her
                        compositions. The future was all vague and unknown, but one thing was at
                        least certain: it cost money to live, and in some way or other it had to be
                        made. She told her kind friend, Madame Vauchelet, of her plan. Madame
                        Vauchelet consulted her musical friends. People were sympathetic, but rather
                        vague in their advice. It was always difficult, this affair. The beginning
                        was hard. M. Thillard, a kindly, highly-cultivated man of about sixty, who
                        had heard Hadria play, took great interest in her talent, and busied himself
                        on her behalf.
                    He said he would like to interest the great Jouffroy in this work. It had so
                        distinct and remarkable an individuality that Dr. Thillard was sure Jouffroy
                        would be enchanted with it. For himself, he held that it shewed a
                        development of musical form and expression extremely remarkable. He could
                        not quite understand it. There was, he knew not what, in it, of strange and
                        powerful; a music of the North; something of bizarre, something of
                        mysterious, even of terrible, “une emotion
                            épouvantable,” cried Mr. Thillard, working himself to a climax as the theme inspired him, “There is
                        genius in that work, but certainly genius.” Madame Vauchelet nodded gravely
                        at this pronouncement. It ought to be published, she said. But this supreme
                        recompense of genius was apparently hard to achieve. The score was sent from
                        publisher to publisher: “from pillar to post,” said Hadria, “if one might
                        venture on a phrase liable to misconstruction on the lips of disappointed
                        ambition.”
                    But at the end of a long and wearisome delay, the little packet was returned
                        in a tattered condition to its discouraged author. M. Thillard made light of
                        this. It was always thus at first. One must have patience.
                    “One must live,” said Hadria, “or at least such is the prejudice under which
                        one has been brought up.”
                    “All will come,” said M. Thillard. “You will see.”
                    On one sunny afternoon, when Hadria had returned, thrilled and inspired by a
                        magnificent orchestral performance at the Châtelet, she found Madame
                        Vauchelet, M. Thillard, and the great Jouffroy waiting in her salon. Jouffroy was small, eccentric, fiery,
                        with keen eager eyes, thick black hair, and overhanging brows, M. Thillard
                        reminded Madame Temperley of her kind permission to present to her M.
                        Jouffroy. Madame Temperley was charmed and flattered by Monsieur's
                        visit.
                    It was an exciting afternoon. Madame Vauchelet was eager to hear the opinion
                        of the great man, and anxious for Hadria to make a good impression.
                    The warm-hearted Frenchwoman, who had lost a daughter, of whom Hadria
                        reminded her, had been untiring in her kindness, from the first. Madame
                        Vauchelet, in her young days, had cherished a similar musical ambition, and
                        Jouffroy always asserted that she might have done great things, as a
                        performer, had not the cares of a family put an end to all hope of bringing
                        her gifts to fruition.
                    The piano was opened. Jouffroy played. Madame Vauchelet, with her large veil
                        thrown back, her black cashmere folds
                        falling around her, sat in the large arm-chair, a dignified and graceful
                        figure, listening gravely. The kindly, refined face of M. Thillard beamed
                        with enjoyment; an occasional cry of admiration escaping his lips, at some
                        exquisite touch from the master.
                    The time slipped by, with bewildering rapidity.
                    Monsieur Thillard asked if they might be allowed to hear some of Madame's
                        compositions—those which she had already been so amiable as to play to
                        him.
                    Jouffroy settled himself to listen; his shaggy eyebrows lowering over his
                        eyes, not in severity but in fixity of attention. Hadria trembled for a
                        moment, as her hands touched the keys. Jouffroy gave a nod of satisfaction.
                        If there had been no such quiver of nerves he would have doubted. So he said
                        afterwards to Mr. Thillard and Madame Vauchelet.
                    After listening, for a time, without moving a muscle, he suddenly sat bolt
                        upright and looked round at the player. The character of the music, always
                        individual, had grown more marked, and at this point an effect was produced
                        which appeared to startle the musician. He withdrew his gaze, after a
                        moment, muttering something to himself, and resumed his former attitude,
                        slowly and gravely nodding his head. There was a long silence after the last
                        of the lingering, questioning notes had died away.
                    “Is Madame prepared for work, for hard, faithful work?”
                    The answer was affirmative. She was only too glad to have the chance to
                        work.
                    “Has Madame inexhaustible patience?”
                    “In this cause—yes.”
                    “And can she bear to be misunderstood; to be derided for departure from old
                        rules and conventions; to have her work despised and refused, and again
                        refused, till at last the dull ears shall he opened and all the stupid world
                        shall run shouting to her feet?”
                    The colour rushed into Hadria's cheeks. “Voila.” exclaimed Madame Vauchelet. M. Thillard beamed with
                        satisfaction. “Did I not tell you?”
                    
                    Jouffroy clapped his friend on the back with enthusiasm. “Il faut travailler,” he said, “mais travailler!” He questioned Hadria minutely
                        as to her course of study, approved it on the whole, suggesting alterations
                        and additions. He asked to look through some more of her work.
                    “Mon Dieu,” he ejaculated, as his quick eye
                        ran over page after page.
                    “If Madame has a character as strong as her genius, her name will one day be
                        on the lips of all the world.” He looked at her searchingly.
                    “I knew it!” exclaimed M. Thillard. “Madame, je vous
                            félicite.”
                    “Ah!” cried Jouffroy, with a shake of his black shaggy head, “this is not a
                        fate to be envied. C'est dur!”
                    “I am bewildered!” cried Hadria at last, in a voice that seemed to her to
                        come from somewhere a long way off. The whole scene had acquired the
                        character of a dream. The figures moved through miles of clear distance. Her
                        impressions were chaotic. While a strange, deep confirmation of the
                        musician's words, seemed to stir within her as if they had long been
                        familiar, her mind entirely refused credence.
                    He had gone too far. Had he said a remarkable talent, but —
                    Yet was it not, after all, possible? Nature scattered her gifts wildly and
                        cruelly: cruelly, because she cared not into what cramped nooks and crannies
                        she poured her maddening explosive: cruelly, because she hurled this fire
                        from heaven with indiscriminate hand, to set alight one dared not guess how
                        many chained martyrs at their stakes. Nature did not pick and choose the
                        subjects of her wilful ministrations. She seemed to scatter at random, out
                        of sheer gaieté de coeur, as Jouffroy had
                        said, and if some golden grain chanced to be gleaming in this soul or that,
                        what cause for astonishment? The rest might be the worst of dross. As well
                        might the chance occur to one of Nature's children as to another. She did
                        not bestow even one golden grain for nothing, bien
                        sûr; she meant to be paid back with
                        interest. Just one bright bead of the whole vast circlet of the truth:
                        perhaps it was hers, but more likely that these kind friends had been misled
                        by their sympathy.
                    M. Jouffroy came next day to have a long talk with Hadria about her work and
                        her methods. He was absolutely confident of what he had said, but he was
                        emphatic regarding the necessity for work; steady, uninterrupted work.
                        Everything must be subservient to the one aim. If she contemplated anything
                        short of complete dedication to her art—well (he shrugged his shoulders), it
                        would be better to amuse herself. There could be no half-measures with art.
                        True, there were thousands of people who practised a little of this and a
                        little of that, but Art would endure no such disrespect. It was the affair
                        of a lifetime. He had known many women with great talent, but, alas! they
                        had not persistence. Only last year a charming, beautiful young woman,
                            with—mon Dieu!—a talent that might
                        have placed her on the topmost rank of singers, had married against the
                        fervent entreaties of Jouffroy, and now he shrugged his shoulders with a
                        gesture of pitying contempt—“elle est mère tout
                            simplement.” Her force had gone from herself into the plump
                        infant, whose “cris dechirants” were all
                        that now remained to the world of his mother's once magnificent voice.
                            Hélas! how many brilliant careers had
                        he not seen ruined by this fatal instinct! Jouffroy's passion for his art
                        had overcome the usual sentiment of the Frenchman, and even the strain of
                        Jewish blood. He did not think a woman of genius well lost for a child. He
                        grudged her to the fetish la famille. He
                        went so far as to say that, even without the claims of genius, a woman ought
                        to be permitted to please herself in the matter. When he heard that Madame
                        had two children, and yet had not abandoned her ambition, he nodded gravely
                        and significantly.
                    “But Madame has courage,” he commented. “She must have braved much
                        censure.”
                    
                    It was the first case of the kind that had come under his notice. He hoped
                        much from it. His opinion of the sex would depend on Hadria's power of
                        persistence. In consequence of numberless pupils who had shewn great
                        promise, and then had satisfied themselves with “a stupid maternity,”
                        Jouffrey was inclined to regard women with contempt, not as regards their
                        talent, which he declared was often astonishing, but as regards their
                        persistency of character and purpose.
                    One could not rely on them. They had enthusiasm—Oh, but enthusiasm à faire peur, but presently “un monsieur avec des moustaches seduisantes”
                        approaches, and then “Phui, c'est tout
                            fini!” There was something of fatality in the affair. The
                        instinct was terrible; a demoniacal possession. It was for women a veritable
                        curse, a disease. M. Jouffroy had pronounced views on the subject. He
                        regarded the maternal instinct as the scourge of genius. It was, for women,
                        the devil's truncheon, his rod of empire. This “reproductive rage” held
                        them—in spite of all their fine intuitions and astonishing ability—after all
                        on the animal plane; cut them off from the little band of those who could
                        break up new ground in human knowledge, and explore new heights of Art and
                        Nature.
                    “I speak to you thus, Madame, not because I think little of your sex, but
                        because I grudge them to the monster who will not spare us even one!”
                    Hadria worked with sufficient energy to please even Jouffroy. Her heart was
                        in it, and her progress rapid. Everything was organized, in her life, for
                        the one object. At the School of Music, she was in an atmosphere of work,
                        everyone being bent on the same goal, each detail arranged to further the
                        students in their efforts. It was like walking on a pavement after
                        struggling uphill on loose sand; like breathing sea-breezes after inhaling a
                        polluted atmosphere.
                    In old days, Hadria used to be haunted by a singular recurrent nightmare:
                        that she was toiling up a steep mountain made of hard slippery rock, the
                        summit always receding as she advanced. Behind her was a vast precipice down
                        which she must fall if she lost her
                        footing; and always, she saw hands without bodies attached to them placing
                        stones in the path, so that they rolled down and had to be evaded at the
                        peril of her life. And each time, after one set of stones was evaded, and
                        she thought there would be a time of respite, another batch was set rolling,
                        amid thin, scarcely audible laughter, which came on the storm-wind that blew
                        precipice-wards across the mountain; and invariably she awoke just as a
                        final avalanche of cruel stones had sent her reeling over the hideous
                        verge.
                    One is disposed to make light of the sufferings gone through in a dream,
                        though it would trouble most of us to explain why, since the agony of mind
                        is often as extreme as possibly could be endured in actual life. From the
                        day of her arrival in Paris, Hadria was never again tormented with this
                        nightmare.
                    Composition went on rapidly now. Soon there was a little pile of new work for
                        M. Jouffroy's inspection. He was delighted, criticizing severely, but always
                        encouraging to fresh efforts. As for the publishing, that was a different
                        matter. In spite of M. Jouffroy's recommendation, publishers could not
                        venture on anything of a character so unpopular. The music had merit, but it
                        was eccentric. M. Jouffroy was angry. He declared that he would play
                        something of Madame's at the next Châtelet concert. There would be
                        opposition, but he would carry his point. And he did. But the audience
                        received it very coldly. Although Hadria had expected such a reception, she
                        felt a chill run through her, and a sinking of the heart. It was like a cold
                        word that rebuffs an offer of sympathy, or an appeal for it. It sent her
                        back into depths of loneliness, and reminded her how cut off she was from
                        the great majority of her fellows, after all. And then Guy de Maupassant's
                        dreadful “Solitude” came to her memory. There is no way (the hero of the
                        sketch asserts) by which a man can break the eternal loneliness to which he
                        is foredoomed. He cannot convey to others his real impressions or emotion,
                        try as he may. By a series of assertions, hard to deny, the hero arrives at
                        a terrible conclusion amounting to this:
                        Art, affection, are in vain; we know not what we say, nor whom we love.
                    Jouffroy came out of the theatre, snorting and ruffled.
                    “But they are imbeciles, all!”
                    Hadria thought that perhaps she was the “imbecile”; it was a
                        possibility to be counted with, but she dared not say so to the irate
                        Jouffroy.
                    He was particularly angry, because the audience had confirmed his own fear
                        that only very slowly would the quality of the music be recognized by even
                        the more cultivated public. It had invaded fresh territory, he said, added
                        to the range of expression, and was meanwhile a new language to casual
                        listeners. It was rebel music, offensive to the orthodox. Hubert had always
                        said that “it was out of the question,” and he appeared to have been
                        right.
                    “Bah,ce ne sont que des moutons!” exclaimed
                        Jouffroy. If the work had been poorer, less original, there would not have
                        been this trouble. Was there not some other method by which Madame could
                        earn what was necessary, en attendant?
                    In one of Professor Fortescue's letters, he had reminded Hadria of his
                        eagerness to help her. Yet, what could he do? He had influence in the world
                        of science, but Hadria could not produce anything scientific! She bethought
                        her of trying to write light descriptive articles, of a kind depending not
                        so much on literary skill as on subject and epistolary freshness of touch.
                        These she sent to the Professor, not without reluctance, knowing how
                        overburdened he already was with work and with applications for help and
                        advice. He approved of her idea, and advised the articles being sent the
                        round of the magazines and papers.
                    Through his influence, one of the shorter articles was accepted, and Hadria
                        felt encouraged. Her day was now very full. The new art was laborious,
                        severely simple in character, though she studiously made her articles. Her
                        acquaintances had multiplied very rapidly of late, and although this brought
                        into her experience much that was pleasant and interesting, the demands of an enlarging circle swallowed an
                        astonishing number of hours. An element of trouble had begun to come into
                        the life that had been so full of serenity, as well as of regular and
                        strenuous work. Hadria was already feeling the effects of anxiety and hurry.
                        She had not come with untried powers to the fray. The reserve forces had
                        long ago been sapped, in the early struggles, beginning in her girlhood and
                        continuing at increasing pressure ever since. There was only enough
                        nerve-force to enable one to live from hand to mouth. Expenditure of this
                        force having been so often in excess of income, economy had become
                        imperative. Yet, economy was difficult. M. Jouffroy was always spurring her
                        to work, to throw over everything for this object; letters from England
                        incessantly urged a very different course; friends in Paris pressed her to
                        visit them, to accompany them hither and thither, to join musical parties,
                        to compose little songs (some bagatelle in celebration of a birthday or
                        wedding), to drive to the further end of the town to play to this person or
                        that who had heard of Madame's great talent. Hadria was glad to do anything
                        she could to express her gratitude for the kindness she had received on all
                        hands, but, alas! there were only a certain number of hours in the day, and
                        only a certain number of years in one's life, and art was long. Moreover,
                        nerves were awkward things to play with.
                    Insidiously, treacherously, difficulties crept up. Even here, where she
                        seemed so free, the peculiar claims that are made, by common consent, on a
                        woman's time and strength began to weave their tiny cords around her. She
                        took warning, and put an end to any voluntary increase of her circle, but
                        the step had been taken a little too late. The mischief was done. To give
                        pain or offence for the sake of an hour or two, more or less, seemed cruel
                        and selfish, yet Hadria often longed for the privilege that every man
                        enjoys, of quietly pursuing his work without giving either.
                    A disastrous sense of hurry and fatigue began to oppress her. This was
                        becoming serious. She must make a stand.
                        Yet her attempts at explanation were generally taken as polite excuses for
                        neglecting those who had been kind and cordial.
                    Jouffroy taxed her with looking tired. One must not be tired. One must
                        arrange the time so as to secure ample rest and recreation after the real
                        work was over. Women were so foolish in that way. They did everything
                        feverishly. They imagined themselves to have inexhaustible nerves.
                    Hadria hinted that it was perhaps others who demanded of them what was
                        possible only to inexhaustible nerves.
                    True; towards women, people behaved as idiots. How was it possible to produce
                        one's best, if repose were lacking? Serenity was necessary for all
                        production.
                    As well expect water perpetually agitated to freeze, as expect the crystals
                        of the mind to produce themselves under the influence of incessant
                        disturbance.
                    Work? Yes. Work never harmed any man or woman. It was harassment that killed.
                        Work of the mind, of the artistic powers, that was a tonic to the whole
                        being. But little distractions, irregular duties, worries,
                        uncertainties—Jouffroy shook his head ominously. And not only to the artist
                        were they fatal. It was these that drew such deep lines on the faces of
                        women still young. It was these that destroyed ability and hope, and killed
                        God only knew how many of His good gifts! Poverty: that could be endured
                        with all its difficulties, if that were the one anxiety. It was never the
                            one but the multitude of troubles that destroyed. Serenity
                        there must be. A man knew that, and insisted on having it. Friends were no
                        true friends if they robbed one of it. For him, he had a poor opinion of
                        that which people called affection, regard. As for l'amour, that was the supreme egotism. The affections were
                        simply a means to “make oneself paid.” Affection! Bah! One did not offer it
                        for nothing, bien sûr! It was through this
                        insufferable pretext that one arrived at governing others. “Comment? Your presence can give me happiness,
                        and you will not remain always beside me?
                        It is nothing to you how I suffer? To me whom you love you refuse this small
                        demand?” Jouffroy opened his eyes, with a scornful glare. “It is in
                            that fashion, I promise you, that one can rule!”
                    “Ah, monsieur,” said Hadria, “you are a keen observer. How I wish you could
                        live a woman's life for a short time. You are wise now, but after
                            that—”
                    “Madame, I have sinned in my day, perhaps to merit purgatorial fires; but,
                        without false modesty, I do not think that I have justly incurred the
                        penalty you propose to me.”
                    Hadria laughed. “It would be a strange piece of poetic justice,” she said,
                        “if all the men who have sinned beyond forgiveness in this incarnation,
                        should be doomed to appear in the next, as well-brought-up women.”
                    Jouffroy smiled.
                    “Fancy some conquering hero reappearing in ringlets and mittens, as one's
                        maiden aunt.”
                    Jouffroy grinned. “Ce serait dur!”
                    “Ah, mon Dieu!” cried Madame Vauchelet, “if
                        men had to endure in the next world that which they have made women suffer
                        in this—that would be an atrocious justice!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV.
                    STUBBORNLY Hadria sent her packets to the publishers; the publishers
                        as firmly returned them. She had two sets flying now, like tennis balls, she
                        wrote to Miss Du Prel: one set across the Channel. The publishers, she
                        feared, played the best game, but she had the English quality of not knowing
                        when she was beaten. Valeria had succeeded in finding a place for two of the
                        articles. This was encouraging, but funds were running alarmingly low.
                    The apartement would have either to be
                        given up, or to be taken on for another term, at the end of the week. A
                        decision must be made. Hadria was dismayed to find her strength beginning to
                        fail. That made the thought of the future alarming. With health and vigour
                        nothing seemed impossible, but without that—
                    It seemed absurd that there should be so much difficulty about earning a
                        living. Other women had done it. Valeria had always made light of the
                        matter—when she had the theory of the sovereignty of the will to
                        support.
                    Another couple of articles which seemed to their creator to possess popular
                        qualities were sent off.
                    But after a weary delay, they shared the fate of their predecessors. Hadria
                        now moved into a smaller suite of rooms, parting regretfully with 
                            Therèse
                            Therése
                        , and flinging herself once more on the mercy of a landlady. This
                        time M. Thillard had discovered the lodging for her; a shabby, but sunny
                        little house, kept by a motherly woman with a reputation for perfect
                        honesty. Expenses were thus kept down, but unhappily very little was coming
                        in to meet them. It was impossible to pull
                        through the year at this rate. But, of course, there was daily hope of
                        something turning up. The arrival of the post was always an exciting moment.
                        At last Hadria wrote to ask Algitha to try and sell for her a spray of
                        diamonds, worth about eighty pounds.
                    Time must be gained, at all hazards. Algitha tried everywhere, and enquired
                        in all directions, but could not get more than five-and-twenty pounds for
                        it. She felt anxious about her sister, and thought of coming over to Paris
                        to see her, in order to talk over some matters that could no longer be kept
                        out of sight.
                    Algitha had wished to give Hadria an opportunity for work and rest, and to
                        avoid recurrence of worry; but it was no longer possible or fair to conceal
                        the fact that there were troubles looming ahead, at Dunaghee. Their father
                        had suffered several severe losses through some bank failures; and now that
                        wretched company in which he had always had such faith appeared to be shaky,
                        and if that were also to smash, the state of affairs would be desperate.
                        Their father, in his optimistic fashion, still believed that the company
                        would pull through. Of course all this anxiety was telling seriously on
                        their mother. And, alas she had been fretting very much about Hadria. After
                        Algitha's misdeed, this second blow struck hard.
                    One must act on one's own convictions and not on those of somebody else,
                        however beloved that other person might be, but truly the penalty of daring
                        to take an independent line of action was almost unbearably severe. It
                        really seemed, at times, as if there were nothing for it but to fold one's
                        hands and do exactly as one was bid. Algitha was beginning to wonder whether
                        her own revolt was about to be expiated by a life-long remorse!
                    “Ah, if mother had only not sacrificed herself for us, how infinitely
                        grateful I should feel to her now! What sympathy there might have been
                        between us all! If she had but given herself a chance, how she might have
                        helped us, and what a friend she might
                        have been to us, and we to her! But she would not.”
                    Algitha said that her mother evidently felt Hadria's departure as a disgrace
                        to the family. It was pathetic to hear her trying to answer people's casual
                        questions about her, so as to conceal the facts without telling an untruth.
                        Hadria was overwhelmed by this letter. Her first impulse was to pack up and
                        go straight to Dunaghee. But as Algitha was there now, this seemed useless,
                        at any rate for the present. And ought she after all to abandon her project,
                        for which so much had been risked, so much pain inflicted? The question that
                        she and Algitha thought they had decided long ago, began to beat again at
                        the door of her conscience and her pity. Her reason still asserted that the
                        suffering which people entail upon themselves, through a frustrated desire
                        to force their own law of conduct on others, must be borne by themselves, as
                        the penalty of their own tyrannous instinct and of their own narrow thought.
                        It was utterly unfair to thrust that natural penalty of prejudice and of
                        self-neglect on to the shoulders of others. Why should they be protected
                        from the appointed punishment, by the offering of another life on the altar
                        of their prejudice? Why should such a sacrifice be made in order to gratify
                        their tyrannical desire to dictate? It was not fair, it was not
                        reasonable.
                    Yet this conclusion of the intellect did not prevent the pain of pity and
                        compunction, nor an inconsequent sense of guilt.
                    Meanwhile it would be best, perhaps, to await Algitha's arrival, when affairs
                        might be in a less uncertain state. All decision must be postponed till
                        then. “Try and come soon,” she wrote to her sister.
                    To add to the anxieties of the moment, little Martha seemed to lose in energy
                        since coming to the new abode, and Hadria began to fear that the house was
                        not quite healthy. It was very cheap, and the landlady was honest, but if it
                        had this serious drawback, another move, with probably another drawback,
                        seemed to threaten. This was particularly troublesome, for who could tell
                        how long it would be possible to remain in
                        Paris? Hadria thought of the doctrine of the sovereignty of the will, and of
                        all the grand and noble things that the Preposterous Society had said about
                        it, not to mention Emerson and others—and she smiled.
                    However, she worked on, putting aside her anxieties, as far as was possible.
                        She would not fail for lack of will, at any rate. But it was a hard
                        struggle. Martha had to be very carefully watched just now.
                    Happily, after a few anxious days, she began to recover her fresh colour and
                        her high spirits. The move would not be necessary, after all. Hadria had
                        become more and more attached to the child, whose lovable qualities
                        developed with her growth. She was becoming singularly like her unhappy
                        mother, in feature and in colouring. Her eyes were large and blue and sweet,
                        with a little touch of pathos in them that Hadria could not bear to see. It
                        seemed almost like the after-glow of the mother's suffering.
                    Although adding to Hadria's anxieties, the child gave a sense of freshness
                        and youth to the little ménage. She made
                        the anxieties easier to bear.
                    Hadria came in, one morning, from her work, tired and full of foreboding. Hat
                        and cloak were laid aside, and she sank into an arm-chair, lying back to
                        lazily watch the efforts of the child to overturn the obstinate blue man,
                        who was still the favourite plaything, perhaps because he was less amenable
                        than the rest.
                    Martha looked up for sympathy. She wished to be helped in her persistent
                        efforts to get the better of this upstart blue man with the red cap, who
                        serenely resumed his erect position just as often as he was forced to the
                        ground. He was a stout, healthy-looking person, inclining to embonpoint; bound to succeed, if only from
                        sheer solidity of person. Hadria was drawn into the game, and the two spent
                        a good half hour on the rug together, playing with that and other toys which
                        Martha toddled off to the cupboard to collect. The child was in great
                        delight. Hadria was playing with her; she liked that better than having Jean Paul Auguste to play
                        with. He took her toys away and always wanted to play a different game.
                    The clock struck two. Hadria felt that she ought to go and see Madame
                        Vauchelet; it was more than a week since she had called, and the kind old
                        friend was always gently pained at an absence of that length.
                    Then there was an article to finish, and she ought really to write to
                        Dunaghee and Henriette and—well the rest must wait. Several other calls were
                        also more than due, but it was useless even to consider those to-day. In
                        spite of an oppressive sense of having much to do—perhaps
                            because of it—Hadria felt as if it were a sheer
                        impossibility to rise from that hearthrug. Besides, Martha would not hear of
                        it. A desire to rest, to idle, to float down the stream, instead of trying
                        always to swim against it, became overpowering. The minutes passed away.
                    “The question is, Martha,” Hadria said gravely, as she proceeded to pile up a
                        towering edifice of bricks, at the child's command, “the question is: Are we
                        going to stick to our plan, or are we going to be beaten? Oh, take care,
                        don't pull down the fairy palace! That is a bad trick that little fingers
                        have. No, no, I must have my fairy palace; I won't have it pulled down. It
                        is getting so fine, too; minarets and towers, and domes and pinnacles, all
                        mixed beautifully. Such an architecture as you never saw! But some day
                        perhaps you will see it. Those blue eyes look as if they were made for
                        seeing it, in the time to come.”
                    “Pretty eyes!” said Martha with frank vanity, and then: “Pretty house!”
                    “It is indeed a pretty house; they all are. But they are so horribly shaky.
                        The minarets are top-heavy, I fear. That's the fault of the makers of these
                        bricks. They ought to make the solid ones in proper proportion. But they
                        can't be persuaded.”
                    “Knock it down,” said Martha, thrusting forth a mischievous hand, which was
                        caught in time to prevent entire destruction of the precious edifice. Half
                        the minarets had fallen.
                    
                    “They must go up again,” said Hadria. “How cruel to spoil all the work and
                        all the beauty.” But Martha laughed with the delight of easy conquest.
                    She watched with great interest the reconstruction, and seemed anxious that
                        every detail should be finished and worthy her iconoclasm. Having satisfied
                        herself that her strength would not be wasted on an incomplete object, she
                        made a second attempt to lay the palace low. Again she was frustrated. The
                        building had soared, by this time, to an ambitious height, and its splendour
                        had reached the limits of the materials at command. The final pinnacle which
                        was required to cope the structure had been mislaid. Hadria was searching
                        for it, when Martha, seizing her chance, struck the palace a blow in its
                        very heart, and in an instant, the whole was a wreck.
                    “Oh, if that is to be the way of it, why should I build? asked Hadria.
                    Martha gave the command for another ornamental object which she might
                        destroy.
                    “One would suppose you were a County-Council,” Hadria exclaimed, “or the
                        practical man. No, you shall have no more beauty to annihilate, little
                        Vandal.”
                    Martha, however, was now engaged in dissecting a doll, and presently a stream
                        of sawdust from its chest announced that she had accomplished her dearest
                        desire. She had found out what was inside that human effigy.
                    “I wish I could get at the sawdust that I am stuffed with,”
                        Hadria thought dreamily, as she watched the doll grow flabbier. “It is
                        wonderful how little one does know one's own sawdust. It would be convenient
                        to feel a little surer just now, for evidently I shall need it all very
                        soon. And I feel somewhat like that doll, with the stream pouring out and
                        the body getting limp.”
                    She rose at last, and went to the window. The radiance of sun and green trees
                        and the stir of human life; the rumble of omnibuses and the sound of wheels;
                        the suggestion to the imagination of the
                        river just a little way off, and the merry little bateaux-mouches—it was too much. Hadria rang for Hannah;
                        asked her to take the child for a walk in the Bois, stooped down to kiss the
                        little upturned face, and went off.
                    In another ten minutes she was on board one of the steam-boats, on her way up
                        the river.
                    She had no idea whither she was going; she would leave that to chance. She
                        only desired to feel the air and the sun and have an opportunity to think.
                        She soothed her uneasiness at the thought of Madame Vauchelet's
                        disappointment by promising herself to call to-morrow. She sat watching the
                        boats and the water and the gay banks of the river with a sense of relief,
                        and a curious sort of fatalism, partly suggested perhaps, by the persistent
                        movement of the boat, and the interminable succession of new scenes, all
                        bubbling with human life, full of the traces of past events. One layer of
                        consciousness was busily engaged in thinking out the practical
                        considerations of the moment, another was equally busy with the objective
                        and picturesque world of the river side. If the two or more threads of
                        thought were not actually followed at the same instant, the alternation was
                        so rapid as not to be perceived. What was to be done? How was the situation
                        to be met, if the worst came to the worst? Ah! what far harder contests had
                        gone on in these dwellings that one passed by the hundred. What lives of
                        sordid toil had been struggled through, in the effort to earn the privilege
                        of continuing to toil!
                    Hadria was inspired by keen curiosity concerning these homes and gardens, and
                        the whole panorama that opened before her, as the little steamer puffed up
                        the river. She longed to penetrate below the surface and decipher the
                        strange palimpsest of human life. What scenes, what tragedies, what
                        comedies, those bright houses and demure little villas concealed. It was not
                        exactly consoling to remember how small her own immediate difficulties were
                        in comparison to those of others, but it seemed to help her to face them.
                            She would not be discouraged. She had
                        her liberty, and that had to be paid for. Surely patience would prevail in
                        the end. She had learnt so much since she left home; among other things, the
                        habit of facing practical difficulties without that dismay which
                        carefully-nurtured women inevitably feel on their first movement out of
                        shelter. Yes, she had learnt much, surprisingly much, in the short time. Her
                        new knowledge contained perhaps rather dangerous elements, for she had begun
                        to realize her own power, not only as an artist, but as a woman. In this
                        direction, had she so chosen.... Her thoughts were arrested at this point,
                        with a wrench. She felt the temptation assail her, as of late it had been
                        assailing her faintly, to explore this territory.
                    But no, that was preposterous.
                    It was certainly not that she regarded herself as accountable, in this
                        matter, to any one but herself; it was not that she acknowledged the
                        suzerainty of her husband. A mere legal claim meant nothing to her, and he
                        knew it. But there were moral perils of no light kind to be guarded against;
                        the danger such as a gambler runs, of being drawn away from the real objects
                        of life, of losing hold of one's main purpose, to say nothing of the
                        probable moral degeneration that would result from such experiment. Yet
                        there was no blinking the fact that the desire had been growing in Hadria to
                        test her powers of attraction to the utmost, so as to discover exactly their
                        range and calibre. She felt rather as a boy might feel who had come upon a
                        cask of gunpowder, and longed to set a match to it, just to see exactly how
                        high it would blow off the roof. She had kept the growing instincts at bay,
                        being determined that nothing avoidable should come between her and her
                        purpose. And then—well considering in what light most men, in their hearts,
                        regarded women—if one might judge from their laws and their conduct and
                        their literature, and the society that they had organized—admiration from
                        this sex was a thing scarcely to be endured. Yet superficially, it was
                        gratifying.
                    Why it should be so, was difficult to say, since it scarcely imposed upon one's very vanity. Yet it was easy
                        enough to understand how women who had no very dominant interest in life,
                        might come to have a thirst for masculine homage and for power over men till
                        it became like the gambler's passion for play; and surely it had something
                        in it of the same character.
                    The steamer was stopping now at St. Cloud. Yielding to an impulse, Hadria
                        alighted at the landing-stage and walked on through the little town towards
                        the palace.
                    The sun was deliciously hot; its rays struck through to the skin, and seemed
                        to pour in life and well-being. The wayfarer stood looking up the steep
                        green avenue, resting for a moment, before she began the ascent. At the top
                        of the hill she paused again to look out over Paris, which lay spread far
                        and wide beneath her, glittering and brilliant; the Eiffel Tower rising
                        above domes and spires, in solitary inconsequence. It seemed to her as if
                        she were looking upon the world and upon life, for the last time. A few
                        weeks hence, would she be able to stand there and see the gay city at her
                        feet? She plunged back along one of the converging avenues, yielding to the
                        fascination of green alleys leading one knows not whither. Wandering on for
                        some time, she finally drifted down hill again, towards the stately little
                        garden near the palace. She was surprised by a hurrying step behind her, and
                        Jouffroy's voice in her ear. She was about to greet him in her usual
                        fashion, when he stopped her by plunging head foremost into a startling
                        tirade—about her art, and her country, and her genius, and his despair; and
                        finally his resolve that she should not belong to the accursed list of women
                        who gave up their art for “la
                        famille.”
                    The more Hadria tried to discover what had happened and what he meant, the
                        faster he spoke and the more wildly he gesticulated.
                    He had seen how she was drifting away from her work and becoming entangled in
                        little affairs of no importance, and he would not permit it. He cared not
                        what her circumstances might be; she had a great talent that she had no
                        right to sacrifice to any circumstances
                        whatever. He had come to save her. Not finding her at her apartement, he had concluded that she had taken
                        refuge at her beloved St. Cloud. Mon Dieu!
                        was he to allow her to be taken away from her work, dragged back to a narrow
                        circle, crushed, broken, ruined—she who could give such a sublime gift to
                        her century—but it was impossible! It would tear his heart. He would not
                        permit it; she must promise him not to allow herself to be persuaded to
                        abandon her purpose, no matter on what pretext they tried to lure her.
                        Hadria, in vain, enquired the cause of this sudden excitement. Jouffroy only
                        repeated his exhortations. Why did she not cut herself entirely adrift from
                        her country, her ties?
                    “They are to you, Madame, an oppression, a weariness, a—”
                    “M. Jouffroy, I have never spoken to you about these things. I cannot see how
                        you are in a position to judge.”
                    “Ah, but I know. Have I not heard cette chère Madame
                            Bertaux describe the life of an English village? And have I
                        not seen—?”
                    “Seen what?”
                    “Cette dame. I have seen her at your
                        apartment this afternoon. Do not annihilate me, Madame; I mean not to offend
                        you. The lady has come from England on purpose to entrap you; she came last
                        night, and she stays at the Hotel du Louvre. She spoke to me of you.”
                        Jouffroy raised his hands to heaven. “Ha! then I understood, and I fled
                        hither to save you.”
                    “Tell me, tell me quickly, Monsieur, has she fair hair and large grey eyes.
                        Is she tall?”
                    No, the lady was small, with dark hair, and brown, clever eyes.
                    “A lady, elegant, well-dressed, but, ah! a woman to destroy the soul of an
                        artist merely by her presence. I told her that you had decided to remain in
                        France, to adopt it as your country, for it was the country of your
                        soul!”
                    “Good heavens!” exclaimed Hadria, unable to repress a little burst of laughter, in spite of her
                        disappointment and foreboding.
                    “I told her that your friends would not let you go back to England, to the
                        land of fogs, the land of the bourgeois.
                        The lady seemed astonished, even indignant,” continued Jouffroy, waving his
                        hands excitedly, “and she endeavoured to make me silent, but she did not
                        have success, I promise you. I appealed to her. I pointed out to her your
                        unique power. I reminded her that such power is a gift supreme to the world,
                        which the world must not lose. For the making of little ones and the care of
                        the ménage, there were other women, but
                        you—you were a priestess in the temple of art, you were without prejudice,
                        without the bourgeois conscience, grâce au ciel! you had the religion of the
                        artist, and your worship was paid at the shrine of Apollo. Enfin, I counselled this elegant lady to return
                        to England and to leave you in peace. Always with a perfect politeness,”
                        added Jouffroy, panting from excess of emotion. Hadria tried in vain to
                        gather the object of this sudden visit on the part of Henriette (for
                        Henriette the elegant lady must certainly be).
                    “I must return at once,” she said. “I fear something must have gone wrong at
                        home.” Jouffroy danced with fury.
                    “But I tell you, Madame, that she will drag you back to your fogs; she will
                        tell you some foolish story, she will address herself to your pity. Your
                        family has doubtless become ill. Families have that habit when they desire
                        to achieve something. Bah, it is easy to become ill when one is angry, and
                        so to make oneself pitied and obeyed. It is a common usage. Madame, beware;
                        it is for you the critical moment. One must choose.”
                    “It is not always a matter of choice, M. Jouffroy.”
                    “Always,” he insisted. He endeavoured to induce her to linger, to make a
                        decision on the spot. But Hadria hastened on towards the river. Jouffroy
                        followed in despair. He ceased not to urge upon her the peril of the moment
                        and the need for resolute action. He promised to help her by every means in his power, to watch over her
                        career, to assist her in bringing her gift to maturity. Never before had he
                        felt a faith so profound, or an interest so fervid in the genius of any
                        woman. One had, after all, regarded them (“les femmes”) as accomplished
                        animals.
                    “But of whom one demands the duties of human beings and the courage of
                        heroes,” added Hadria.
                    “Justement,” cried Jouffroy. But Madame had
                        taught him a superb truth. For her, he felt a sentiment of admiration and
                        reverence the most profound. She had been to him a revelation. He entreated
                        her to bestow upon him the privilege of watching over her career. Let her
                        only make the wise decision now, everything would arrange itself. It needed
                        only courage.
                    “This is the moment for decision. Remain now among us, and pursue your
                        studies with a calm mind, and I promise you—I, Jouffroy, who have the right
                        to speak on this matter—I promise you shall have a success beyond the
                        wildest dreams of your ambition. Madame, you do not guess your own power. I
                        know how your genius can be saved to the world; I know the artist's nature.
                        Have I not had the experience of twenty years? I know what feeds and rouses
                        it, and I know what kills it. And this I tell you, Madame, that if you stay
                        here, you have a stupendous future before you; if you return to your fogs
                        and your tea-parties—ah, then, Madame, your genius will die and your heart
                        will be broken.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI.
                    IT was with great reluctance that Jouffroy acceded to Hadria's wish
                        to return home alone. She watched the river banks, and the boats coming and
                        passing, with a look of farewell in her eyes. She meant to hold out to the
                        utmost limits of the possible, but she knew that the possible
                            had limits, and she awaited judgment at the bar of
                        destiny.
                    She hurried home on arriving at the quay, and found Henriette waiting for
                        her.
                    “What is it? Tell me at once, if anything is wrong.”
                    “Then you knew I was here!” exclaimed Miss Temperley.
                    “Yes; M. Jouffroy told me. He found me at St. Cloud. Quick, Henriette, don't
                        keep me in suspense.”
                    “There is nothing of immediate seriousness,” Henriette replied, and her
                        sister-in-law drew a breath of relief. Tea was brought in by Hannah, and a
                        few questions were asked and answered. Miss Temperley having been installed
                        in an easy chair, and her cloak and hat removed, said that her stay in Paris
                        was uncertain as to length. It would depend on many things. Hadria rang for
                        the tray to be taken away, after tea was over, and as Hannah closed the
                        door, a sensation of sick apprehension overcame her, for a moment. Henriette
                        had obviously come to Paris in order to recapture the fugitive, and meant to
                        employ all her tact in the delicate mission. She was devoted to Hubert and
                        the children, heart and soul, and would face anything on their behalf,
                        including the present disagreeable task. Hadria looked at her sister-in-law
                        with admiration. She offered homage to the prowess of the enemy.
                    Miss Temperley held a commanding position, fortified by ideas and customs centuries old, and supported by
                        allies on every side.
                    It ran through Hadria's mind that it was possible to refuse to allow the
                        subject to be broached, and thus escape the encounter altogether. It would
                        save many words on both sides. But Henriette had always been in Hubert's
                        confidence, and it occurred to Hadria that it might be well to define her
                        own position once more, since it was thus about to be directly and frankly
                        attacked. Moreover, Hadria began to be fired with the spirit of battle. It
                        was not merely for herself, but on behalf of her sex, that she longed to
                        repudiate the insult that seemed to her, to be involved in Henriette's whole
                        philosophy.
                    However, if the enemy shewed no signs of hostility, Hadria resolved that she
                        also would keep the truce.
                    Miss Temperley had already mentioned that Mrs. Fullerton was now staying at
                        the Red House, for change of air. She had been far from well, and of course
                        was worrying very much over these money troubles and perils ahead, as well
                        as about Hadria's present action. Mrs. Fullerton had herself suggested that
                        Henriette should go over to Paris to see what could be done to patch up the
                        quarrel.
                    “Ah!” exclaimed Hadria, and a cloud settled on her brow. Henriette had indeed
                        come armed cap à pie!
                    There was a significant pause. “And your mission,” said Hadria at length, “is
                        to recapture the lost bird.”
                    “We are considering your own good,” murmured Miss Temperley.
                    “If I have not always done what I ought to have done in my life, it is not
                        for want of guidance and advice from others,” said Hadria with a smile and a
                        sigh.
                    “You are giving everyone so much pain, Hadria. Do you never think of
                        that?”
                    There was another long pause. The two women sat opposite one another. Miss
                        Temperley's eyes were bent on the carpet; Hadria's on a patch of blue sky
                        that could be seen through a side street, opposite.
                    
                    “If you would use your ability on behalf of your sex instead of against it,
                        Henriette, women would have cause to bless you, for all time!”
                    “Ah! if you did but know it, I am using what ability I have on
                        their behalf,” Miss Temperley replied. “I am trying to keep them true to
                        their noble mission. But I did not come to discuss general questions. I came
                        to appeal to your best self, Hadria.”
                    “I am ready,” said Hadria. “Only, before you start, I want you to remember
                        clearly what took place at Dunaghee before my marriage; for I foresee that
                        our disagreement will chiefly hang upon your lapse of memory on that point,
                        and upon my perhaps inconveniently distinct recollection of those
                        events.”
                    “I wish to lay before you certain facts and certain results of your present
                        conduct,” said Henriette.
                    “Very good. I wish to lay before you certain facts and certain results of
                        your past conduct.”
                    “Ah! do not let us wrangle, Hadria.”
                    “I don't wish to wrangle, but I must keep hold of these threads that you seem
                        always to drop. And then there is another point: when I talked of leaving
                        home, it was not I who suggested that it should be for
                        ever.”
                    “I know, I know,” cried Henriette hastily. “I have again and again pointed
                        out to Hubert how wrong he was in that, and how he gave you a pretext for
                        what you have done. I admit it and regret it deeply. Hubert lost his temper;
                        that is the fact of the matter. He thought himself bitterly wronged by
                        you.”
                    Quite so; he felt it a bitter wrong that I should claim that liberty of
                        action which I warned him before our marriage that I should
                        claim. He made no objection then: on the contrary, he professed
                        to agree with me; and declared that he did not care what I might think but
                        now he says that in acting as I have acted, I have forfeited my position,
                        and need not return to the Red House.”
                    “I know. But he spoke in great haste and anger. He has made me his confidante.”
                    “And his ambassador?”
                    
                    Henriette shook her head. No; she had acted entirely on her own
                        responsibility. She could not bear to see her brother suffering. He had felt
                        the quarrel deeply.
                    “On account of the stupid talk,” said Hadria. “That will soon
                        blow over.”
                    “On account of the talk partly. You know his sensitiveness about anything
                        that concerns his domestic life. He acutely feels your leaving the children,
                        Hadria. Try to put yourself in his place. Would you not feel
                        it?”
                    “If I were a man with two children of whom I was ex-extremely fond, I have no
                        doubt that I should feel it very much indeed if I lost an intelligent and
                        trustworthy superintendent, whose services assured the children's welfare,
                        and relieved me of all anxiety on their account.”
                    “If you are going to take this hard tone, Hadria, I fear you will never
                        listen to reason.”
                    “Henriette, when people look popular sentiments squarely in the face, they
                        are always called hard, or worse. You have kept yourself thoroughly informed
                        of our affairs. Whose parental sentiments were gratified by the advent of
                        those children—Hubert's or mine?”
                    “But you are a mother.”
                    Hadria laughed. “You play into my hands, Henriette. You tacitly acknowledge
                        that it was not for my gratification that those children were
                        brought into the world (a common story, let me observe), and then you remind
                        me that I am a mother! Your mentor must indeed be slumbering. You are simply
                        scathing—on my behalf! Have you come all the way from England for this?”
                    “You won't understand. I mean that motherhood has duties. You
                        can't deny that.”
                    “I can and I do.”
                    Miss Temperley stared. “You will find no human being to agree with you,” she
                        said at length.
                    “That does not alter my opinion.”
                    “Oh, Hadria, explain yourself! You utter paradoxes. I want to understand your
                        point of view.”
                    
                    It is simple enough. I deny that motherhood has duties except when it is
                        absolutely free, absolutely uninfluenced by the pressure of opinion, or by
                        any of the innumerable tyrannies that most children have now to thank for
                        their existence.”
                    Miss Temperley shook her head. “I don't see that any ‘tyranny,’ as you call
                        it, exonerates a mother from her duty to her child.”
                    “There we differ. Motherhood, in our present social state, is the sign and
                        seal as well as the means and method of a woman's bondage. It forges chains
                        of her own flesh and blood; it weaves cords of her own love and instinct.
                        She agonizes, and the fruit of her agony is not even legally hers. Name me a
                        position more abject! A woman with a child in her arms is, to me, the symbol
                        of an abasement, an indignity, more complete, more disfiguring and terrible,
                        than any form of humiliation that the world has ever seen.”
                    “You must be mad!” exclaimed Miss Temperley. “That symbol has stood to the
                        world for all that is sweetest and holiest.”
                    “I know it has! So profound has been our humiliation!”
                    “I don't know what to say to anyone so wrong-headed and so twisted in
                        sentiment.”
                    Hadria smiled thoughtfully.
                    “While I am about it, I may as well finish this disclosure of feeling, which,
                        again I warn you, is not peculiar to myself, however you may
                        lay that flattering unction to your soul. I have seen and heard of many a
                        saddening evidence of our sex's slavery since I came to this terrible and
                        wonderful city: the crude, obvious buying and selling that we all shudder
                        at; but hideous as it is, to me it is far less awful than this other
                        respectable form of degradation that everyone glows and smirks over.”
                    Miss Temperley clasped her hands in despair.
                    “I simply can't understand you. What you say is rank heresy against all that
                        is most beautiful in human nature.”
                    “Surely the rank heresy is to be laid at the door of those who degrade and enslave that which they assert to
                        be most beautiful in human nature. But I am not speaking to convince; merely
                        to shew where you cannot count upon me for a point of attack. Try something
                        else.”
                    “But it is so strange, so insane, as it seems to me. Do you mean to throw
                        contempt on motherhood per se?”
                    “I am not discussing motherhood per se; no
                        woman has yet been in a position to know what it is per se, strange as it may appear. No woman has yet
                        experienced it apart from the enormous pressure of law and opinion that has,
                        always, formed part of its inevitable conditions. The illegal mother is
                        hounded by her fellows in one direction; the legal mother is urged and
                        incited in another: free motherhood is unknown amongst us. I speak of it as
                        it is. To speak of it per se, for the
                        present, is to discuss the transcendental.”
                    There was a moment's excited pause, and Hadria then went on more rapidly.
                        “You know well enough, Henriette, what thousands of women there are to whom
                        the birth of their children is an intolerable burden, and a fierce misery
                        from which many would gladly seek escape by death. And indeed many
                            do seek escape by death. What is the use of this eternal
                        conspiracy of silence about that which every woman out of her teens knows as
                        well as she knows her own name?”
                    But Henriette preferred to ignore that side of her experience. She murmured
                        something about the maternal instinct, and its potency.
                    “I don't deny the potency of the instinct,” said Hadria, “but I do say that
                        it is shamefully presumed upon. Strong it obviously must be, if industrious
                        cultivation and encouragements and threats and exhortations can make it so!
                        All the Past as well as all the weight of opinion and training in the
                        Present has been at work on it, thrusting and alluring and coercing the
                        woman to her man-allotted fate.”
                    “Nature-allotted, if you please,” said Henriette. “There is no
                        need for alluring or coercing.”
                    “Why do it then? Now, be frank, Henriette, and try not to be offended. Would
                            you feel no sense of indignity in performing a function of this sort (however noble and so on
                        you might think it per se), you knew that
                        it would be demanded of you as a duty, if you did not welcome it as a
                        joy?”
                    “I should acknowledge it as a duty, if I did not welcome it as a joy.”
                    “In other words, you would accept the position of a slave.”
                    “How so?”
                    “By bartering your womanhood, by using these powers of body, in return for
                        food and shelter and social favour, or for the sake of so-called ‘duty’
                        irrespective of—perhaps in direct opposition to your feelings. How then do
                        you differ from the slave woman who produces a progeny of young slaves, to
                        be disposed of as shall seem good to her perhaps indulgent master? I see no
                        essential difference.”
                    “I see the difference between honour and ignominy,” said Henriette. Hadria
                        shook her head, sadly.
                    “The differences are all in detail and in circumstance. I am sorry if I
                        offend your taste. The facts are offensive. The bewildering thing is that
                        the facts themselves never seem to offend you; only the mention of
                        them.”
                    “It would take too long to go into this subject,” said Henriette. “I can only
                        repeat that I fail to understand your extraordinary views of the holiest of
                        human instincts.”
                    “That catch-word! And you use it rashly, Henriette, for do you
                        not know that the deepest of all degradation comes of misusing that which is
                        most holy?”
                    “A woman who does her duty is not to be accused of misusing anything,” cried
                        Miss Temperley hotly.
                    “Is there then no sin, no misuse of power in sending into the world swarms of
                        fortuitous, poverty-stricken human souls, as those souls must be who are
                        born in bondage, with the blended instincts of the slave and the master for
                        a proud inheritance? It sounds awful I know, but truth is apt to sound
                        awful. Motherhood, as our wisdom has appointed it, among civilized people,
                        represents a prostitution of the reproductive powers, which precisely
                        corresponds to that other abuse, which seems to most of us so infinitely
                        more shocking.”
                    
                    Miss Temperley preferred not to reply to such a remark, and the entrance of
                        little Martha relieved the tension of the moment. Henriette, though she bore
                        the child a grudge, could not resist her when she came forward and put up
                        her face to be kissed.
                    “She is really growing very pretty,” said Henriette, in a tone which betrayed
                        the agitation which she had been struggling to hide.
                    Martha ran for her doll and her blue man, and was soon busy at play, in a
                        corner of the room, building Eiffel Towers out of stone bricks, and knocking
                        them down again.
                    “I don't yet quite understand, Henriette, your object in coming to Paris.”
                        Hadria's voice had grown calmer.
                    “I came to make an appeal to your sense of duty and your generosity.”
                    “Ah!”
                    “I came,” Henriette went on, bracing herself as if for a great effort, “to
                        remind you that when you married, you entered into a contract which you now
                        repudiate.”
                    Hadria started up, reddening with anger.
                    “I did no such thing, and you know it, Henriette. How do you
                            dare to sit there and tell me that?”
                    “I tell you nothing but the truth. Every woman who marries enters, by that
                        fact, into a contract.”
                    Miss Temperley had evidently regarded this as a strong card and played it
                        hopefully.
                    Hadria was trembling with anger. She steadied her voice. “Then you actually
                        intended to entrap me into this so-called contract, by leading
                        me to suppose that it would mean nothing more between Hubert and myself than
                        an unavoidable formality! You tell me this to my face, and don't appear to
                        see that you are confessing an act of deliberate treachery.”
                    “Nonsense,” cried Henriette. “There was nothing that any sane person would
                        have objected to, in our conduct.”
                    Hadria stood looking down scornfully on her sister-in-law. She shrugged her
                        shoulders, as if in bewilderment.
                    “And yet you would have felt yourselves stained with dishonour for the rest of your lives had you
                        procured anything else on false pretences! But a woman—that is
                        a different affair. The code of honour does not here apply, it would seem.
                            Any fraud may be honourably practised on her,
                        and wild is the surprise and indignation if she objects when she finds it
                        out.”
                    “You are perfectly mad,” cried Henriette, tapping angrily with her fingers on
                        the arm of her chair.
                    “What I say is true, whether I be mad or sane. What you call the ‘contract’
                        is simply a cunning contrivance for making a woman and her possible children
                        the legal property of a man, and for enlisting her own honour and conscience
                        to safeguard the disgraceful transaction.”
                    “Ah,” said Henriette, on the watch for her opportunity, “then you admit that
                        her honour and conscience are enlisted?”
                    “Certainly, in the case of most women. That enlistment is a masterpiece of
                        policy. To make a prisoner his own warder is surely no light stroke of
                        genius. But that is exactly what I refused to be from the first, and no one
                        could have spoken more plainly. And now you are shocked and pained and
                        aggrieved because I won't eat my words. Yet we have talked over all this, in
                        my room at Dunaghee, by the hour. Oh! Henriette, why did you not listen to
                        your conscience and be honest with me?”
                    “Hadria, you insult me.”
                    “Why could not Hubert choose one among the hundreds and thousands of women
                        who would have passed under the yoke without a question, and have gladly
                        harnessed herself to his chariot by the reins of her own conscience?”
                    “I would to heaven he had!” Henriette was goaded into
                        replying.
                    Hadria laughed. Then her brow clouded with pain. “Ah, why did he not meet my
                        frankness with an equal frankness, at the time? All this trouble would have
                        been saved us both if only he had been honest.”
                    “My dear, he was in love with you.”
                    “And so he thought himself justified in deceiving me. There is
                            indeed war to the knife between the sexes!” Hadria stood with her elbows on the back of a
                        high arm-chair, her chin resting on her hands.
                    “It is not fair to use that word. I tell you that we both confidently
                        expected that when you had more experience you would be like other women and
                        adjust yourself sensibly to your conditions.”
                    “I see,” said Hadria, “and so it was decided that Hubert was to pretend to
                        have no objections to my wild ideas, so as to obtain my consent, trusting to
                        the ponderous bulk of circumstance to hold me flat and subservient when I no
                        longer had a remedy in my power. You neither of you lack brains, at any
                        rate.” Henriette clenched her hands in the effort of self-control.
                    “In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, our forecasts would have come true,”
                        she said. “I mean—”
                    “That is refreshingly frank,” cried Hadria.
                    “We thought we acted for the best.”
                    “Oh, if it comes to that, the Spanish Inquisitors doubtless thought that they
                        were acting for the best, when they made bonfires of heretics in the
                        market-places.” Henriette bent her head and clasped the arms of the chair,
                        tightly.
                    “Well, if there be any one at fault in the matter, I am the
                        culprit,” she said in a voice that trembled. “It was I who
                        assured Hubert that experience would alter you. It was I who represented to
                        him that though you might be impulsive, even hard at times, you could not
                        persist in a course that would give pain, and that if you saw that any act
                        of yours caused him to suffer, you would give it up. I was convinced that
                        your character was good and noble au fond,
                        Hadria, and I have believed it up to this moment.”
                    Hadria drew herself together with a start, and her face darkened. “You make
                        me regret that I ever had a good or a pitiful impulse!” she cried with
                        passion.
                    She went to the window and stood leaning against the casement, with crossed
                        arms.
                    Henriette turned round in her chair.
                    “Why do you always resist your better nature, Hadria?”
                    “You use it against me. It is the same with all women. Let them beware of their ‘better natures,’ poor
                        hunted fools! for that ‘better nature’ will be used as a dog-chain, by which
                        the! can be led, like toy-terriers, from beginning to end of what they are
                        pleased to call their lives!”
                    “Oh, Hadria, Hadria!” cried Miss Temperley with deep regret in her tone.
                    But Hadria was only roused by the remonstrance.
                    “It is cunning, shallow, heartless women, who really fare best in our
                        society; its conditions suit them. They have no pity, no
                        sympathy to make a chain of; they don't mind stooping to
                        conquer; they don't mind playing upon the weaker, baser sides
                        of men's natures; they don't mind appealing, for their own
                        ends, to the pity and generosity of others; they don't mind
                        swallowing indignity and smiling abjectly, like any woman of the harem at
                        her lord, so that they gain their object. That is the sort of
                        ‘woman's nature’ that our conditions are busy selecting. Let us cultivate
                        it. We live in a scientific age; the fittest survive. Let us be ‘fit.’”
                    “Let us be womanly, let us do our duty, let us hearken to our conscience!”
                        cried Henriette.
                    “Thank you! If my conscience is going to be made into a helm by which others
                        may guide me according to their good pleasure, the sooner that helm is
                        destroyed the better. That is the conclusion to which you drive me and the
                        rest of us, Henriette.”
                    “Charity demands that I do not believe what you say,” said Miss
                        Temperley.
                    “Oh, don't trouble to be charitable!”
                    Henriette heaved a deep sigh. “Hadria,” she said, “are you going to allow
                        your petty rancour about this—well, I will call it error of ours, if you
                        like to be severe—are you going to bear malice and ruin your own life and
                        Hubert's and the children's? Are you so unforgiving, so lacking in
                        generosity?”
                    “You call it an error. I call it a treachery,”
                        returned Hadria. “Why should the results of that treachery be thrust on to
                            my shoulders to bear? Why should my generosity
                            be summoned to your rescue? But I
                        suppose you calculated on that sub-consciously, at the time.”
                    “Hadria!”
                    “This is a moment for plain speaking, if ever there was one. You must have
                        reckoned on an appeal to my generosity, and on the utter helplessness of my
                        position when once I was safely entrapped. It was extremely clever and well
                        thought out. Do you suppose that you would have dared to act as you did, if
                        there had been means of redress in my hands, after marriage?”
                    If I did rely on your generosity, I admit my mistake,” said
                        Henriette bitterly.
                    “And now when your deed brings its natural harvest of disaster, you and
                        Hubert come howling, like frightened children, to have the mischief set
                        straight again, the consequences of your treachery averted, by
                            me, of all people on this earth!”
                    “You are his wife, the mother of his children.”
                    “In heaven's name, Henriette, why do you always run into my very jaws?”
                    “I don't know what you mean.”
                    “Why do you catalogue my injuries when your point is to deny them?”
                    Henriette rose with a vivid flush.
                    “Hadria, Hubert is one of the best men in England. I—”
                    “When have I disputed that?”
                    Hadria advanced towards Miss Temperley, and stood looking her full in the
                        face.
                    “I believe that Hubert has acted conscientiously, according to his standard.
                        But I detest his standard. He did not think it wrong or treacherous to
                        behave as he did towards me. But it is that very fact that I so
                        bitterly resent. I could have forgiven him a sin against myself alone, which
                        he acknowledged to be a sin. But this is a sin against my entire sex, which
                        he does not acknowledge to be a sin. It is the insolence that
                        is implied in supposing it allowable for a man to trick a woman in that way,
                        without the smallest damage to his
                        self-respect, that sticks so in my throat. What does it imply as regards his
                        attitude towards all women? Ah! it is that which makes me feel
                        so rancorous. And I resent Hubert's calm assumption that he had a right to
                        judge what was best for me, and even to force me, by fraud, into following
                        his view, leaving me afterwards to adjust myself with circumstance as best I
                        might: to make my bitter choice between unconditional surrender, and the
                        infliction of pain and distress, on him, on my parents, on everybody. Ah,
                        you calculated cunningly, Henriette! I am a coward about giving
                        pain, little as you may now be disposed to credit it. You have tight hold of
                        the end of my chain.”
                    Hadria was pacing restlessly up and down the room. Little Martha ran out with
                        her doll, and offered it, as if with a view to chase away the perturbed look
                        from Hadria's face. The latter stooped mechanically and took the doll,
                        smiling her thanks, and stroking the child's fair curls tenderly. Then she
                        recommenced her walk up and down the room, carrying the doll carefully on
                        her arm.
                    “Take care of dolly,” Martha recommended, and went back to her other
                        toys.
                    “Yes, Henriette, you and Hubert have made your calculations cleverly. You
                        have advocates only too eloquent in my woman's temperament. You have
                        succeeded only too well by your fraud, through which I now stand here, with
                        a life in fragments, bound, chafe as I may, to choose between alternative
                        disasters for myself and for all of us. Had you two only acted straightly
                        with me, and kindly allowed me to judge for myself, instead of treacherously
                        insisting on judging for me, this knot of your tying which you naïvely bring
                        me to unravel, would never have wrung the life out of me as it is doing
                        now—nor would it have caused you and Hubert so much virtuous distress.”
                    Hadria recommenced her restless pacing to and fro.
                    “But, Hadria, do be calm, do look at the matter
                        from our point of view. I have owned my indiscretion.” (Hadria gave a little
                        scornful cry.) “Surely you are not going to throw over all allegiance to your husband on
                            that account, even granting he was to blame.” Hadria
                        stopped abruptly.
                    “I deny that I owe allegiance to a man who so treated me. I don't deny that
                        he had excuses. The common standards exonerate him; but, good heavens, a
                        sense of humour, if nothing else, ought to save him from making this
                        grotesque claim on his victim! To preach the duties of wife and mother to
                            me!” Hadria broke into a laugh. “It is inconceivably
                        comic.”
                    Henriette shrugged her shoulders. “I fear my sense of humour is defective. I
                        can't see the justice of repudiating the duty of one's position, since there
                        the position is, an accomplished fact not to be denied. Why not
                        make the best of it?”
                    “Henriette, you are amazing! Supposing a wicked bigamist had persuaded a
                        woman to go through a false marriage ceremony, and when she became aware of
                        her real position, imagine him saying to her, with grave and virtuous mien,
                        ‘My dear, why repudiate the duties of your position, since there your
                        position is, an accomplished fact not to be denied?’”
                    “Oh, that's preposterous,” cried Henriette.
                    “It's preposterous and it's parallel.”
                    “Hubert did not try to entrap you into doing what was wrong.”
                    “We need not discuss that, for it is not the point. The point is that the
                        position (be that right or wrong) was forced on the woman in both cases by
                        fraud, and is then used as a pretext to exact from her the desired conduct;
                        what the author of the fraud euphoniously calls ‘duty.’”
                    “You are positively insulting!” cried Henriette, rising.
                    By this time, Hadria had allowed the doll to slip back, and its limp body was
                        hanging down disconsolately from her elbow, although she was clutching it,
                        with absent-minded anxiety, to her side, in the hope of arresting its
                        threatened fall.
                    “Oh, look at dolly, look, look!” cried Martha reproachfully. Hadria seized
                        its legs and pulled it back again, murmuring some consolatory promise to its
                        mistress.
                    
                    “It is strange how you succeed in putting me on the defensive, Henriette—I
                        who have been wronged. A horrible wrong it is too. It has ruined my life.
                        You will never know all that it implies, never, never, though I talk till
                        Doomsday. Nobody will—except Professor Fortescue.”
                    Henriette gave a horrified gesture. “I believe you are in love with that man.
                            That is the cause of all this wild conduct.”
                    Miss Temperley had lost self-control for a moment.
                    Hadria looked at her steadily.
                    “I beg your pardon. I spoke in haste, Hadria. You have your faults, but
                        Hubert has nothing to fear from you in that respect, I am sure.”
                    “Really?” Hadria had come forward and was standing with her left elbow on the
                        mantel-piece, the doll still tucked under her right arm. “And you think that
                        I would, at all hazards, respect a legal tie which no feeling
                        consecrates?”
                    “I do you that justice,” murmured Henriette, turning very white.
                    “You think that I should regard myself as so completely the property of a man
                        whom I do not love, and who actively dislikes me, as to hold my very
                        feelings in trust for him. Disabuse yourself of that idea, Henriette. I
                        claim rights over myself, and I will hold myself in pawn for no man. This is
                        no news either to you or to Hubert. Why pretend that it is?”
                    Henriette covered her face with her hands.
                    “I can but hope,” she said at length, “that even now you are saying these
                        horrible things out of mere opposition. I cannot, I simply
                            cannot believe, that you would bring disgrace upon us
                        all.”
                    “If you chose to regard it as a disgrace that I should make so bold as to lay
                        claim to myself, that, it seems to me, would be your own fault.” Henriette
                        sprang forward white and trembling, and clutched Hadria's arm excitedly.
                    “Ah! you could not! you could not! Think of your
                        mother and father, if you will not think of your husband and children. You
                        terrify me!”
                    
                    Hadria was moved with pity at Henriette's white quivering face.
                    “Don't trouble,” she said, more gently. “There is no thunderbolt about to
                        fall in our discreet circle.” (A hideous crash from the overturning of one
                        of Martha's Eiffel Towers seemed to belie the words.)
                    Miss Temperley's clutch relaxed, and she gave a gasp of relief.
                    “Tell me, Hadria, that you did not mean what you said.”
                    “I can't do that, for I meant it, every syllable.”
                    “Promise me then at least, that before you do anything to bring misery and
                        disgrace on us all, you will tell us of your intention, and give us a chance
                        of putting our side of the matter before you.”
                    “Of protecting your vested interests,” said Hadria; “your right of way
                        through my flesh and spirit.”
                    “Of course you put it unkindly.”
                    “I will not make promises for the future. The future is quite enough hampered
                        with the past, without setting anticipatory traps and springes for unwary
                        feet. But I refuse this promise merely on general principles. I am not about
                        to distress you in that particular way, though I think you would only have
                        yourselves to blame if I were.”
                    Miss Temperley drew another deep breath, and the colour began to return to
                        her face.
                    “So far, so good,” she said. “Now tell me—Is there nothing that would make
                        you accept your duties?”
                    “Even if I were to accept what you call my duties, it would not be in the
                        spirit that you would desire to see. It would be in cold acknowledgment of
                        the force of existing facts—facts which I regard as preposterous, but admit
                        to be coercive.” Henriette sank wearily into her chair.
                    “Do you then hold it justifiable for a woman to inflict pain on those near to
                        her, by a conduct that she may think justifiable in itself?”
                    Hadria hesitated for a moment.
                    
                    “A woman is so desperately entangled, and restricted, and betrayed, by common
                        consent, in our society, that I hold her justified in using desperate means,
                        as one who fights for dear life. She may harden her heart—if she can.”
                    “I am thankful to think that she very seldom can!” cried
                        Henriette.
                    “Ah! that is our weak point! For a long time to come, we shall be overpowered
                        by our own cage-born instincts, by our feminine conscience that has been
                        trained so cleverly to dog the woman's footsteps, in man's interest—his
                        detective in plain clothes!”
                    “Of course, if you repudiate all moral claim—” began Henriette, weakly.
                    “I will not insult your intelligence by considering that remark.”
                    “Are you determined to harden yourself against every appeal?” Hadria looked
                        at her sister-in-law, in silence.
                    “Why don't you answer me, Hadria?”
                    “Because I have just been endeavouring, evidently in vain, to explain in what
                        light I regard appeals on this point.”
                    “Then Hubert and the children are to be punished for what you are pleased to
                        call his fraud—the fraud of a man in love with you, anxious to please you,
                        to agree with you, and believing you too good and noble to allow his life to
                        be spoilt by this girl's craze for freedom. It is inconceivable!”
                    “I fear that Hubert must be prepared to endure the consequences of his
                        actions, like the rest of us. It is the custom, I know, for the sex that men
                        call weaker, to saddle themselves with the consequences of men's deeds, but
                        I think we should have a saner, and a juster world if the custom were
                        discontinued.”
                    “You have missed one of the noblest lessons of life, Hadria,” cried Miss
                        Temperley, rising to leave. “You do not understand the meaning of
                        self-sacrifice.”
                    “A principle that, in woman, has been desecrated by misuse,” said Hadria.
                        “There is no power, no quality, no gift or
                        virtue, physical or moral, that we have not been trained to
                        misuse. Self-sacrifice stands high on the list.”
                    Miss Temperley shrugged her shoulders, sadly and hopelessly.
                    “You have fortified yourself on every side. My words only prompt you to throw
                        up another earthwork at the point attacked. I do harm instead of good. I
                        will leave you to think the matter over alone.” Miss Temperley moved towards
                        the door.
                    “Ah, you are clever, Henriette! You know well that I am far better acquainted
                        with the weak points of my own fortifications than you can be, who did not
                        build them, and that when I have done with the defence against you, I shall
                        commence the attack myself. You have all the advantages on your side. Mine
                        is a forlorn hope:—a handful of Greeks at Thermopylae against all the host
                        of the Great King. We are foredoomed; the little band must fall, but some
                        day, Henriette, when you and I shall be no more troubled with these
                        turbulent questions—some day, these great blundering hosts of barbarians
                        will be driven back, and the Greek will conquer. Then the realm of liberty
                        will grow wide!”
                    “I begin to hate the very name!” exclaimed Henriette.
                    Hadria's eyes flashed, and she stood drawn up, straight and defiant, before
                        the mantel-piece.
                    “Ah! there is a fiercer Salamis and a crueller Marathon yet to be fought,
                        before the world will so much as guess what freedom means. I have no
                        illusions now, regarding my own chances, but I should hold it as an honour
                        to stand and fall at Thermopylae, with Leonidas and his Spartans.”
                    “I believe that some day you will see things with different eyes,” said
                        Henriette.
                    The doll fell with a great crash, into the fender among the fire-irons, and
                        there was a little burst of laughter. Miss Temperley passed through the
                        door, at the same instant, with great dignity.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVII.
                    AS Hadria had foretold, she commenced the attack on herself as soon
                        as Henriette had departed, and all night long, the stormy inner debate was
                        kept up. Her mind never wavered, but her heart was rebellious. Hubert
                        deserved to pay for his conduct; but if we all had to pay for our conduct to
                        the uttermost farthing, that would be hard, if just. If Hadria assumed the
                        burden of Hubert's debt, it would mean what M. Jouffroy had pointed out.
                        Hubert's suffering would be only on account of offended public opinion;
                        hers—but then her parents would suffer as well as Hubert. Round and round
                        went the thoughts, like vast wheels, and when towards morning, she dozed off
                        a little, the wheels were still turning in a vague, weary way, and as they
                        turned, the life seemed to be crushed gradually out of the sleeper.
                    Jouffroy came to enquire whether the decision had been made. He was in a
                        state of great excitement. He gave fervent thanks that Hadria had stood
                        firm.
                    “You do not forget my words, Madame?”
                    “I shall never forget them, Monsieur.”
                    Henriette discreetly forbore to say anything further on the subject of
                        dispute. She waited, hopefully.
                    “Hubert has been troubled about the money that your father set apart, on your
                        marriage, as a contribution to the household expenses,” she said, one
                        morning. “Your father did not place it all in your name.”
                    “I know,” said Hadria. “It is tied up, in some way, for the use of the
                        family. I have a small sum only in my own control.”
                    
                    “Hubert is now leaving half of it to accumulate. The other half has still to
                        go towards the expenses at the Red House. I suppose you approve?”
                    “Certainly,” said Hadria. “My father designed it for that purpose.”
                    “But Hubert feared you might be running short of money, and wished to send
                        you some; but the trustees say it is against the conditions of the
                        trust.”
                    “So I suppose.”
                    “I wanted you to know about it, that is all,” said Henriette, “Also, I should
                        like to say that though Hubert does not feel that he can ask you to return
                        to the Red House, after what has happened—he cannot risk your refusing—yet I
                        take it on myself to tell you, that he would only be too glad if you would
                        go back.”
                    “Thank you, I understand.”
                    Next morning, Henriette came with a letter in her hand.
                    “Bad news!” Hadria exclaimed.
                    The letter announced the failure of the Company. It was the final blow.
                        Dunaghee would have to be given up. Mrs. Fullerton's settlement was all that
                        she and her husband would now have to live upon.
                    Hadria sat gazing at the letter, with a dazed expression. Almost before the
                        full significance of the calamity had been realized, a telegram arrived,
                        announcing that Mrs. Fullerton had fallen dangerously ill.
                    The rest of that day was spent in packing, writing notes, settling accounts,
                        and preparing for departure.
                    “When—how are you going?” cried Madame Vauchelet, in dismay.
                    “By the night boat, by the night boat,” Hadria replied hurriedly, as if the
                        hurry of her speech would quicken her arrival in England.
                    The great arches of the station which had appealed to her imagination, at the
                        moment of arrival, swept upward, hard and grey, in the callous blue light.
                        Hadria breathed deep. Was she the same
                        person who had arrived that night, with every nerve thrilled with hope and
                        resolve? Ah! there had been so much to learn, and the time had been so
                        short. Starting with her present additional experience, she could have
                        managed so much better. But of what use to think of that? How different the
                        homeward journey from the intoxicating outward flight, in the heyday of the
                        spring!
                    What did that telegram mean? Ill; dangerously,
                            dangerously. The words seemed to be repeated cruelly, insistently,
                        by the jogging of the train and the rumble of the wheels. The anxiety gnawed
                        on, rising at times into terror, dulling again to a steady ache. And then
                        remorse began to fit a long-pointed fang into a sensitive spot in her heart.
                        In vain to resist. It was securely placed. Let reason hold her peace.
                    A thousand fears, regrets, self-accusations, revolts, swarmed insect-like in
                        Hadria's brain, as the train thundered through the darkness, every
                        tumultuous sound and motion exaggerated to the consciousness, by the fact
                        that there was no distraction of the attention by outside objects. Nothing
                        offered itself to the sight except the strange lights and shadows of the
                        lamp thrown on the cushions of the carriage; Henriette's figure in one
                        corner, Hannah, with the child, in another, and the various rugs and
                        trappings of wandering Britons. Everything was contracted, narrow. The
                        sea-passage had the same sinister character. Hadria compared it to the
                        crossing of the Styx in Charon's gloomy ferry-boat.
                    She felt a patriotic thrill on hearing the first mellow English voice
                        pronouncing the first kindly English sentence. The simple, slow, honest
                        quality of the English nature gave one a sense of safety. What splendid raw
                        material to make a nation out of! But, ah, it was sometimes dull to live
                        with! These impressions, floating vaguely in the upper currents of the mind,
                        were simultaneous with a thousand thoughts and anxieties, and gusts of
                        bitter fear and grief.
                    What would be the end of it all? This uprooting from the old home—it wrung one's heart to think of it.
                        Scarcely could the thought be faced. Her father, an exile from his beloved
                        fields and hills; her mother banished from her domain of so many years, and
                        after all these disappointments and mortifications and sorrows! It was
                        piteous. Where would they live? What would they do?
                    Hadria fought with her tears. Ah! it was hard for old people to have to start
                        life anew, bitterly hard. This was the moment for their children to flock to
                        their rescue, to surround them with care, with affection, with devotion; to
                        make them feel that at least something that could be trusted,
                        was left to them from the wreck.
                    “Ah! poor mother, poor kind father, you were very good to us all, very, very
                        good!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                    MRS. FULLERTON'S illness proved even more serious than the doctor
                        had expected. She asked so incessantly for her daughters, especially Hadria,
                        that all question of difference between her and Hubert was laid aside, by
                        tacit consent, and the sisters took their place at their mother's bedside.
                        The doctor said that the patient must have been suffering, for many years,
                        from an exhausted state of the nerves and from some kind of trouble. Had she
                        had any great disappointment or anxiety?
                    Hadria and Algitha glanced at one another. “Yes,” said Algitha, “my mother
                        has had a lot of troublesome children to worry and disappoint her.”
                    “Ah!” exclaimed the doctor, nodding his head. “Well, now has come a crisis in
                        Mrs. Fullerton's condition. This illness has been incubating for years. She
                        must have undergone mental misery of a very acute kind, whether or not the
                        cause may have been adequate. If her children desire to keep her among them,
                        it will be necessary to treat her with the utmost care, and to oppose her in
                            nothing. Further disappointment or chagrin, she has no
                        longer the power to stand. There are complications. Her heart will give
                        trouble, and all your vigilance and forbearance are called for, to avoid
                        serious consequences. I think it right to speak frankly, for everything
                        depends—and always hereafter will depend—on the patient's being saved as
                        much as possible from the repetition of any former annoyance or sorrow. At
                        best, there will be much for her to endure; I dread an uprooting of long
                        familiar habits for any one of her age. Her life, if not her reason, are in
                        her children's hands.”
                    
                    A time of terrible anxiety followed, for the inmates of the Red House. The
                        doctor insisted on a trained nurse. Algitha and Hadria felt uneasy when they
                        were away, even for a moment, from the sick-room, but the doctor reminded
                        them of the necessity, for the patient's sake as well as their own, of
                        keeping up their strength. He warned them that there would be a long strain
                        upon them, and that any lack of common sense, as regards their own health,
                        would certainly diminish the patient's chances of recovery. Nobody had his
                        clearest judgment and his quickest observation at command, when nervously
                        exhausted. Everything might depend on a moment's decision, a moment's
                        swiftness of insight. The warning was not thrown away, but both sisters
                        found the incessant precautions trying.
                    Every thought, every emotion was swallowed up in the one awful anxiety.
                    “Oh, Hadria, I feel as if this were my fault,” cried Algitha, on one still,
                        ominous night, after she had resigned her post at the bedside to the nurse,
                        who was to fill it for a couple of hours, after which Hadria took her turn
                        of watching.
                    “You? It was I,” said Hadria, with trembling lips.
                    “Mother has never been strong,” Algitha went on. “And my leaving home was the
                        beginning of all this trouble.”
                    “And my leaving home the end of it,” her sister added.
                    Algitha was walking restlessly to and fro.
                    “And I went to Dunaghee so often, so often,” she cried tearfully, “so that
                        mother should not feel deserted, and you too came, and the boys when they
                        could. But she never got over my leaving; she seemed to resent my
                        independence, my habit of judging for myself; she hated every detail in
                        which I differed from the girls she knew. If I had married and gone to the
                        Antipodes, she would have been quite satisfied, but—”
                    “Ah, why do people need human souls for their daily food?” cried Hadria
                        mournfully. She flung open the window of the bedroom, and looked out over
                        the deadly stillness of the fields and the heavy darkness. “But they do need
                            them,” she said, in the same quiet,
                        hopeless tone, “and the souls have got to be provided.”
                    “What is the time?” asked Algitha. A clock had struck, outside. “Could it be
                        the clock of Craddock church? The sound must have stolen down hill, through
                        the still air.”
                    “It struck three.”
                    “You ought to get some sleep,” cried Algitha. “Remember what the doctor
                        said.”
                    “I feel so nervous, so anxious. I could not sleep.”
                    “Just for a few minutes,” Algitha urged. Hadria consented at last, to go into
                        her room, which adjoined her sister's, and lie down on the bed. The door was
                        open between the rooms. “You must do the same,” she stipulated.
                    There was silence for some minutes, but the silence swarmed with the ghosts
                        of voices. The air seemed thick with shapes, and terrors, and strange
                        warnings.
                    The doctor had not disguised the fact that the patient was fighting hard for
                        life, and that it was impossible to predict the result. Everything depended
                        on whether her strength would hold out. The weakness of the heart was an
                        unfortunate element in the case. To save strength and give plentiful
                        nourishment, without heightening the fever, must be the constant effort.
                        Algitha's experience stood her in good stead. Her practical ability had been
                        quickened and disciplined by her work. She had trained herself in nursing,
                        among other things.
                    Hadria's experience was small. She had to summon her intelligence to the
                        rescue. The Fullerton stock had never been deficient in this particular. In
                        difficult moments, when rule and tradition had done their utmost, Hadria had
                        often some original device to suggest, to fit the individual case, which
                        tided them over a crisis, or avoided some threatening predicament.
                    “Are you sleeping?” asked Algitha, very softly.
                    “No,” said Hadria; “I feel very uneasy to-night. I think I will go down.”
                    
                    “Do try to get a little rest first, Hadria; your watch is next, and you must
                        not go to it fagged out.”
                    “I know, but I feel full of dread. I must just go and see that
                        all is right.”
                    “Then I will come too,” said Algitha.
                    They stole down stairs together, in the dim light of the oil lamps that were
                        kept burning all night. The clock struck the half-hour as they passed along
                        the landing. A strange fancy came to Hadria, that a dusky figure drifted
                        away before her, as she advanced. It seemed as though death had receded at
                        her approach. The old childish love for her mother had revived in all its
                        force, during this long fight with the reaper of souls. She felt all her
                        energies strung with the tension of battle. She fought against a dark horror
                        that she could not face. Knowing, and realising vividly, that if her mother
                        lived, her own dreams were ended for ever, she wrestled with desperate
                        strength for the life that was at stake. Her father's silent wretchedness
                        was terrible to see. He would not hear a word of doubt as to the patient's
                        recovery. He grew angry if anyone hinted at danger. He insisted that his
                        wife was better each day. She would soon be up and well again.
                    “Never well again,” the doctor had confided to Hubert, “though she may
                        possibly pull through.”
                    Mr. Fullerton's extravagant hopefulness sent a thrill along the nerves. It
                        was as if he had uttered the blackest forebodings. The present crisis had
                        stirred a thousand feelings and associations, in Hadria, which had long been
                        slumbering. She seemed to be sent back again, to the days of her childhood.
                        The intervening years were blotted out. She realized now, with agonising
                        vividness, the sadness of her mother's life, the long stagnation, the slow
                        decay of disused faculties, and the ache that accompanies all processes of
                        decay, physical or moral. Not only the strong appeal of old affection,
                        entwined with the earliest associations, was at work, but the appeal of
                        womanhood itself:—the grey sad story of a woman's life, bare and dumb and
                        pathetic in its irony and pain: the injury
                        from without, and then the self-injury, its direct offspring; unnecessary,
                        yet inevitable; the unconscious thirst for the sacrifice of others, the
                        hungry claims of a nature unfulfilled, the groping instinct to bring the
                        balance of renunciation to the level, and indemnify oneself for the loss
                        suffered and the spirit offered up. And that propitiation had to be made. It
                        was as inevitable as that the doom of Orestes should follow the original
                        crime of the house of Atreus. Hadria's whole thought and strength were now
                        centred on the effort to bring about that propitiation, in her own person.
                        She prepared the altar and sharpened the knife. In that subtle and ironical
                        fashion, her fate was steadily at work.
                    The sick-room was very still when the sisters entered. It was both warm and
                        fresh. A night-light burnt on the table, where cups and bottles were ranged,
                        a spirit-lamp and kettle, and other necessaries. The night-light threw long,
                        stealthy shadows over the room. The fire burnt with a red glow. The bed lay
                        against the long wall. As the two figures entered, there was a faint sound
                        of quick panting, and a moan. Hadria rushed to the bedside.
                    “Quick, quick, some brandy,” she called. Algitha flew to the table for the
                        brandy, noticing with horror, as she passed, that the nurse had fallen
                        asleep at her post. Algitha shook her hastily.
                    “Go and call Mr. Fullerton,” she said sharply,”and quick, quick.” The patient
                        was sinking. The nurse vanished. Algitha had handed the cup of brandy to
                        Hadria. The sisters stood by the bedside, scarcely daring to breathe. Mr.
                        Fullerton entered hurriedly, with face pallid and drawn.
                    “What is it? Is she—?”
                    “No, no; I hope not. Another moment it would have been too late, but I think
                        we were in time.”
                    Hadria had administered the brandy, and stood watching breathlessly, for
                        signs of revival. She gave one questioning glance at Algitha. Her trust in
                        the nurse was gone. Algitha signed hope. The patient's breathing was
                        easier.
                    
                    “I wonder if we ought to give a little more?” Hadria whispered.
                    “Wait a minute. Ah! don't speak to her, father; she needs all her
                        strength.”
                    The ticking of the clock could be heard, in the dim light.
                    Algitha was holding her mother's wrist. “Stronger,” she said, Hadria drew a
                        deep sigh. “We must give food presently. No more brandy.”
                    “She's all right again, all right again!” cried Mr. Fullerton, eagerly.
                    The nurse went to prepare the extract which the doctor had ordered for the
                        patient, when quickly-digested nourishment was required. It gave immediate
                        strength. The brandy had stimulated the sinking organs to a saving effort;
                        the food sustained the system at the level thus achieved. The perilous
                        moment was over.
                    “Thank heaven!” cried Algitha, when the patient's safety was assured, and she
                        sank back on the pillow, with a look of relief on her worn face.
                    “If it had not been for you, Hadria—. What's the matter? Are you ill?”
                    Algitha rushed forward, and the nurse dragged up a chair.
                    Hadria had turned deadly white, and her hand groped for support.
                    She drew herself together with a desperate effort, and sat down breathing
                        quickly. “I am not going to faint,” she said, reassuringly. “It was only for
                        a moment.” She gave a shudder. “What a fight it was! We were only just in
                        time—”
                    A low voice came from the bed. The patient was talking in her sleep. “Tell
                        Hadria to come home if she does not want to kill me. Tell her to come home;
                        it is her duty. I want her.”
                    Then, after a pause, “I have always done my duty,—I have
                        sacrificed myself for the children. Why do they desert me, why do they
                        desert me?” And then came a low moaning
                        cry, terrible to hear. The sisters were by the bedside, in a moment. Their
                        father stood behind them.
                    “We are here, mother dear; we are here watching by you,” Hadria murmured,
                        with trembling voice.
                    Algitha touched the thin hand, quietly. “We are with you, mother,” she
                        repeated. “Don't you know that we have been with you for a long time?”
                    The sick woman seemed to be soothed by the words.
                    “Both here, both?” she muttered vaguely. And then a smile spread over the
                        sharpened features; she opened her eyes and looked wistfully at the two
                        faces bending over her.
                    A look of happiness came into her dimmed eyes.
                    “My girls,” she said in a dreamy voice, “my girls have come back to me—I knew
                        they were good girls—”
                    Then her eyes closed, and she fell into a profound and peaceful slumber.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIX.
                    “BUT, Doctor, is there no hope that with care and time, she will be
                        able to walk again?”
                    “I am sorry to say, none whatever. I am only thankful that my patient has
                        survived at all. It was little short of a miracle, and you must be thankful
                        for that.”
                    Mrs. Fullerton had always been an active woman, in spite of not being very
                        robust, and a life passed on a couch had peculiar terrors for her. The
                        nervous system had been wrecked, not by any one shock or event, but by the
                        accumulated strains of a lifetime. The constitution was broken up, once and
                        for all.
                    A cottage had been taken, as near as possible to the Red House, where the old
                        couple were to settle for the rest of their days, within reach of their
                        children and grandchildren. Every wish of the invalid must be respected,
                        just or unjust. Absolute repose of mind and body was imperatively necessary,
                        and this could only be attained for her by a complete surrender, on the part
                        of her children, of any course of action that she seriously disapproved. The
                        income was too limited to allow of Algitha's returning to her parents;
                        otherwise Mrs. Fullerton would have wished it. Algitha had now to provide
                        for herself, as the allowance that her father had given her could not be
                        continued. She had previously done her work for nothing, but now Mrs.
                        Trevelyan, under whose care she had been living, offered her a paid post in
                        a Convalescent Home in which she was interested.
                    “I am exceptionally fortunate,” said Algitha, “for Mrs. Trevelyan has
                        arranged most kindly, so that I can get away to see mother and father at the
                        end of every week.”
                    
                    Both Mr. and Mrs. Fullerton had taken it for granted that Hadria would remain
                        at the Red House, and that Hubert would “forgive” her, as they put it.
                    Circumstances seemed to take it equally for granted. Mrs. Fullerton would now
                        depend entirely on her children for every solace and pleasure. She would
                        require cheering, amusing, helping, in a thousand ways. Algitha was to come
                        down each week from Saturday till Monday, and the brothers when they could.
                        During the rest of the week, the invalid would depend on her younger
                        daughter. Hadria's leaving home, and the rumour of a quarrel between her and
                        Hubert, had conduced to her mother's illness, perhaps had even caused it.
                        Mrs. Fullerton had taken it bitterly to heart. It had become obvious that
                        Hadria would have now to remain at the Red House, for her mother's sake, and
                        that being so, she and Hubert agreed that it was useless to discuss any
                        other reasons for and against it. Hubert was only too glad of her return,
                        for appearance' sake. Neither of them thought, for a moment, of what
                        Henriette called a “reconciliation.” What had passed before Hadria's
                        departure had revealed finally, the hopelessness of such an attempt. Matters
                        settled down heavily and with an air of finality.
                    If only her mother's declining years were happy and peaceful, that would be
                        something of importance gained, but, alas! Mrs. Fullerton seemed anything
                        but happy. Her helplessness was hard to bear, and she felt the worldly
                        downfall, severely. All this, and the shattered state of her nerves tended
                        to make her exacting and irritable; and as she had felt seriously aggrieved
                        for so many years of her life, she now regarded the devotion of her children
                        as a debt tardily paid, and the habit grew insensibly upon her of increasing
                        her demands, as she found everyone so ready to submit to them. The
                        possession of power had its usual effect. She knew no mercy in its use. Her
                        daughters were made to feel that if they had been less headstrong and
                        selfish in the past, she would have been a vigorous and active woman to this
                            day. Obviously, the very least they
                        could do, was to try by all means in their power, to lighten the burden they
                        had laid upon her. Yet Mrs. Fullerton was, by nature, unselfish. She would
                        have gladly sacrificed herself for her children's good, as indeed she had
                        persistently and doggedly sacrificed herself for them, during their
                        childhood, but naturally she had her own view of what constituted their
                        “good.” It did not consist in wasting one's youth and looks among the slums
                        of the East End, or in deserting one's home to study music and mix in a set
                        of second-rate people, in an out-of-the-way district of Paris. As for
                        Hadria's conduct about little Martha, Mrs. Fullerton could scarcely bring
                        herself to speak about it. It terrified her. She thought it indicated some
                        taint of madness in her daughter's mind. Two charming children of her own
                        and—but Mrs. Fullerton, with a painful flush, would turn her mind from the
                        subject. She had to believe her daughter either mad or bad, and that was
                        terrible to her maternal pride. She could indeed scarcely believe that it
                        had not all been a painful dream, for Hadria was now so good and dutiful, so
                        tender and watchful; how could she have behaved so abominably,
                        so crazily? Every day Hadria came to the cottage, generally with a bunch of
                        fresh flowers to place by her mother's couch, and then all the affairs of
                        the household were talked over and arranged, the daughter doing what was
                        needed in the way of ordering provisions or writing notes, for the invalid
                        could now write only with the greatest difficulty. Then Mrs. Fullerton liked
                        to have a chat, to hear what was in the papers, what was going on in the
                        neighbourhood, and to discuss all sorts of dreary details, over and over
                        again. Books that Hadria would sometimes bring were generally left unread,
                        unless they were light novels of a rigidly conventional character. Mrs.
                        Fullerton grew so excited in her condemnation of any other kind, that it was
                        dangerous to put them before her. In the evenings, the old couple liked to
                        have a rubber, and often Hubert and Hadria would make up the necessary
                        quartett; four silent human beings, who sat like solemn children at their portentous play, while
                        the clock on the mantelpiece recorded the moments of their lives that they
                        dedicated to the mimic battle. Hours and hours were spent in this way. But
                        Hadria found that she could not endure it every night, much to the surprise
                        of her parents. The monotony, the incessant recurrence, had a disastrous
                        effect on her nerves, suggesting wild and desperate impulses.
                    “I should go out of my mind, if I had no breaks,” she said at last, after
                        trying it for some months. “In the interests of future rubbers, I
                            must leave off, now and then. He that plays and runs away,
                        will live to play another day.”
                    Mrs. Fullerton thought it strange that Hadria could not do even this little
                        thing for her parents, without grumbling, but she did not wish to make a
                        martyr of her. They must try and find some one else to take her place
                        occasionally.
                    Sometimes Joseph Fleming would accept the post, sometimes Lord Engleton, and
                        often Ernest or Fred, whose comparatively well-ordered minds were not sent
                        off their balance so easily as Hadria's. In this fashion, the time went by,
                        and the new state of affairs already seemed a hundred years old. Paris was a
                        clear, but far-off dream. An occasional letter from Madame Vauchelet or
                        Jouffroy, who mourned and wailed over Hadria's surrender of her work, served
                        to remind her that it had once been actual and living. There still existed a
                        Paris far away beyond the hills, brilliant, vivid, exquisite, inspiring, and
                        at this very moment the people were coming and going, the river was flowing,
                        the little steamers plying,—but how hard it was to realise!
                    The family was charmed with the position of affairs.
                    “It is such a mercy things have happened as they have!” was the verdict,
                        delivered with much wise shaking of heads. “There can be no more mad or
                        disgraceful behaviour on the part of Hubert's wife, that is one comfort. She
                        can't murder her mother outright, though she has not been far off it!”
                    From the first, Hadria had understood what the future must be. These
                        circumstances could not be overcome by any
                        deed that she could bring herself to do. Even Valeria was baffled. Her
                        theories would not quite work. Hadria looked things straight in the face.
                        That which was strongest and most essential in her must starve; there was no
                        help for it, and no one was directly to blame, not even herself. Fate,
                        chance, Providence, the devil, or whatever it was, had determined against
                        her particular impulses and her particular view of things. After all, it
                        would have been rather strange if these powers had happened exactly to agree
                        with her. She was not so ridiculous (she told herself) as to feel personally
                        aggrieved, but so long as fate, chance, Providence, or the devil, gave her
                        emotions and desires and talent and will, it was impossible not to suffer.
                        She might fully recognise that the suffering was of absolutely no importance
                        in the great scheme of things, but that did not make the suffering less. If
                        it must be, it must be, and there was an end to it. Should someone gain by
                        it, that was highly satisfactory, and more than could be said of most
                        suffering, which exists, it would seem, only to increase and multiply after
                        the manner of some dire disease. This was what Hadria dreaded in her own
                        case: that the loss would not end with her. The children, Martha, everyone
                        who came under her influence, must share in it.
                    Henriette irritated her by an approving sweetness of demeanour, carefully
                        avoiding any look of triumph, or rather triumphing by that air which said:
                        “I wouldn't crow over you for the world!”
                    She was evidently brimming over with satisfaction. A great peril, she felt,
                        had been averted. The family and its reputation were saved.
                    “You appear to think that the eyes of Europe are riveted on the Temperley
                        family,” said Hadria; “an august race, I know, but there are
                        one or two other branches of the human stock in existence.”
                    “One must consider what people say,” said Henriette.
                    Hadria's time now was filled more and more with detail, since there were two
                        households instead of one to manage. The
                        new charge was particularly difficult, because she had not a free hand.
                    Without entirely abandoning her music, it had, perforce, to fall into
                        abeyance. Progress was scarcely possible. But as Henriette pointed out—it
                        gave so much pleasure to others—when Hadria avoided music that was too
                        severely classical.
                    At Craddock Place, one evening, she was taken in to dinner by a callow youth,
                        who found a fertile subject for his wit, in the follies and excesses of what
                        he called the “new womanhood.” It was so delightful, he said, to come to the
                        country, where women were still charming in the good old way. He knew that
                        this new womanhood business was only a phase, don't you know, but upon his
                        word, he was getting tired of it. Not that he had any objection to women
                        being well educated (Hadria was glad of that), but he could not
                        stand it when they went out of their sphere, and put themselves forward and
                        tried to be emancipated, and all that sort of nonsense.
                    Hadria was not surprised that he could not stand it.
                    There had been a scathing article, the youth said, in one of the evening
                        papers. He wondered how the “New Woman” felt after reading it! It simply
                        made mincemeat of her.
                    “Wretched creature!” Hadria exclaimed.
                    The youth wished that women would really do something, instead
                        of making all this fuss.
                    Hadria agreed that it was a pity they were so inactive. Could
                        not one or two of the more favoured sex manage to inspire them with a little
                        initiative?
                    The youth considered that women were, by nature, passive and reflective, not
                        original.
                    Hadria thought the novelty of that idea not the least of its charms.
                    The youth allowed that, in her own way, and in her own sphere, woman was
                        charming and singularly intelligent. He had no objection to her developing
                        as much as she pleased, in proper directions. (Hadria felt really
                            encouraged.) But it was so absurd to
                        pretend that women could do work that was peculiar to men. (Hadria agreed,
                        with a chuckle.) When had they written one of Shakespeare's dramas? (When
                        indeed? History was ominously silent on that point.)
                    “Hadria, what is amusing you?” enquired her hostess, across the table.
                    “Oh, well—only the discouraging fact that no woman, as Mr. St. George
                        convincingly points out, has ever written one of Shakespeare's dramas!”
                    “Oh,” said Lady Engleton with a broad smile, “but you know, Mr. St. George,
                        we really haven't had quite the same chances, have we?”
                    Perhaps not quite, as far as literature went, the youth admitted tolerantly,
                        but there was failure in original work in every direction. This was no blame
                        to women; they were not made that way, but facts had to be
                        recognised. Women's strength lay in a different domain—in the home. It was
                        of no use to try to fight against Nature. Look at music for instance; one
                        required no particular liberty to pursue that art, yet where
                        were the women-composers? If there was so much buried talent among women,
                        why didn't they arise and bring out operas and oratorios?
                    Hadria couldn't understand it; especially as the domestic life was arranged,
                        one might almost say, with a special view to promoting musical talent in the
                        mistress of the household. Yet where were those oratorios? She shook her
                        head. Mr. St. George, she thought, had clearly proved that the inherent
                        nature of women was passive and imitative, while that of man, even in the
                        least remarkable examples of the sex, was always powerful and original to
                        the verge of the perilous!
                    “I think we had better go to the drawing-room,” said Lady Engleton,
                        discreetly. The youth twirled his moustaches thoughtfully, as the ladies
                        filed out.
                    Hadria's happiest hours were now those that she spent with little Martha, who
                        was growing rapidly in stature and 
                            intelli-
                            intelligence
                         gence. The child's lovable
                        nature blossomed sweetly under the influence of Hadria's tenderness. When
                        wearied, and sad at heart, an hour in the Priory garden, or a saunter along
                        the road-side with little Martha, was like the touch of a fresh breeze after
                        the oppression of a heated room. Hadria's attachment to the child had grown
                        and grown, until it had become almost a passion. How was the child to be
                        saved from the usual fate of womanhood? Hadria often felt a thrill of
                        terror, when the beautiful blue eyes looked out, large and fearless, into
                        the world that was just unfolding before them, in its mysterious
                        loveliness.
                    The little girl gave promise of beauty. Even now there were elements that
                        suggested a moving, attracting nature. “At her peril,” thought Hadria, “a
                        woman moves and attracts. If I can only save her!”
                    Hadria had not seen Professor Fortescue since her return from Paris. She felt
                        that he, and he alone, could give her courage, that he and he alone could
                        save her from utter despondency. If only he would come! For the first time
                        in her life, she thought of writing to ask him for personal help and advice.
                        Before she had carried out this idea, the news came that he was ill, that
                        the doctor wished him to go abroad, but that he was forced to remain in
                        England, for another three months, to complete some work, and to set some of
                        his affairs in order. Hadria, in desperation, was thinking of throwing minor
                        considerations to the winds, and going to see for herself the state of
                        affairs (it could be managed without her mother's knowledge, and so would
                        not endanger her health or life), when the two boys were sent back hastily
                        from school, where scarlet fever had broken out. They must have caught the
                        infection before leaving, for they were both taken ill.
                    Valeria came down to Craddock Dene, for the day. She seemed almost
                        distraught. Hadria could see her only at intervals. The sick children
                        required all her attention. Valeria wished to visit them. She had brought
                        the poor boys each a little gift.
                    
                    “But you may take the fever,” Hadria remonstrated.
                    Valeria gave a scornful snort.
                    “Are you tired of life?”
                    “I? Yes. It is absurd. I have no place in it, no tie, nothing to bind me to
                        my fellows or my race. What do they care for a faded, fretful woman?”
                    “You know how your friends care for you, Valeria. You know, for instance,
                        what you have been in my life.”
                    “Ah, my dear, I don't know! I have a wretched longing for some
                        strong, absorbing affection, something paramount, satisfying. I envy you
                        your devotion to that poor little child; you can shew it, you can express
                        it, and you have the child's love in return. But I, who want much more than
                        that, shall never get even that. I threw away the chance when I had it, and
                        now I shall end my days, starving.”
                    Hadria was silent. She felt that these words covered something more than
                        their ostensible meaning.
                    “I fear Professor Fortescue is very ill,” said Valeria restlessly.
                    Her face was flushed, and her eyes burnt.
                    “I fear he is,” said Hadria sadly.
                    “If—if he were to die—” Hadria gave a low, horrified exclamation.
                    “Surely there is no danger of that!”
                    “Of course there is: he told me that he did not expect to recover.”
                    Valeria was crouching before the fire, with a look of blank despair. Hadria,
                        pale to the lips, took her hand gently and held it between her own.
                        Valeria's eyes suddenly filled with tears. “Ah, Hadria, you will understand,
                        you will not despise me—you will only be sorry for me—why should I not tell
                        you? It is eating my heart out—have you never suspected, never
                        guessed—?”
                    Hadria, with a startled look, paused to consider, and then, stroking back the
                        beautiful white hair with light touch, she said, “I think I have known
                        without knowing that I knew. It wanted
                        just these words of yours to light up the knowledge. Oh, Valeria, have you
                        carried this burden for all these years?”
                    “Ever since I first met him, which was just before he met his wife. I knew,
                        from the first, that it was hopeless. He introduced her to me shortly after
                        his engagement. He was wrapped up in her. With him, it was once and for all.
                        He is not the man to fall in love and out of it, over and over again. We
                        were alike in that. With me, too, it was once for all. Oh, the irony of
                        life!” Valeria went on with an outburst of energy, “I was doomed to doom
                        others to similar loss; others have felt for me, in vain, what I, in vain,
                        felt for him! I sent them all away, because I could not bring myself to
                        endure the thought of marrying any other man, and so I pass my days alone—a
                        waif and stray, without anything or anyone to live for.”
                    “At least you have your work to live for, which is to live for many, instead
                        of for one or two.”
                    “Ah, that does not satisfy the heart.”
                    “What does?” Hadria exclaimed.
                    Anxiety about Professor Fortescue now made a gloomy background to the
                        responsibilities of Hadria's present life. Valeria's occasional visits were
                        its bright spots. She looked forward to them, with pathetic eagerness. The
                        friendship became closer than it had ever been before, since Valeria had
                        confided her sad secret.
                    “Yet, Valeria, I envy you.”
                    “Envy me?” she repeated blankly.
                    “I have never known what a great passion like that means; I have never felt
                        what you feel, and surely to live one's life with all its pettiness and
                        pain, yet never to know its extreme experiences, is sadder than to have
                        those experiences and suffer through them.”
                    “Ah, yes, you are right,” Valeria admitted. “I would not be without it if I
                        could.”
                    The thought of what she had missed was beginning to take a hold upon Hadria. Her life was passing,
                        passing, and the supreme gifts would never be hers. She must for ever stand
                        outside, and be satisfied with shadows and echoes.
                    “Are you very miserable, Hadria?” Valeria asked, one day.
                    “I am benumbed a little now,” Hadria replied. “That must be, if one is to go
                        on at all. It is a provision of nature, I suppose. All that was threatening
                        before I went to Paris, is now being fulfilled. I can scarcely realize how I
                        could ever have had the hopefulness to make that attempt. I might have known
                        I could not succeed, as things are. How could I? But I am glad
                        of the memory. It pains me sometimes, when all the acute delight and charm
                        return, at the call of some sound or scent, some vivid word; but I would not
                        be without the memory and the dream—my little illusion.”
                    “Supposing,” said Valeria after a long pause, “that you could live your life
                        over again, what would you do?”
                    “I don't know. It is my impression that in my life, as in the lives of most
                        women, all roads lead to Rome. Whether one does this or that, one finds
                        oneself in pretty much the same position at the end. It doesn't answer to
                        rebel against the recognized condition of things, and it doesn't answer to
                        submit. Only generally one must, as in my case. A choice of
                        calamities is not always permitted.”
                    “It is so difficult to know which is the least,” said Valeria.
                    “I don't believe there is a ‘least.’ They are both unbearable.
                        It is a question which best fits one's temperament, which leads soonest to
                        resignation.”
                    “Oh, Hadria, you would never achieve resignation!” cried Valeria.
                    “Oh, some day, perhaps!”
                    Valeria shook her head. She had no belief in Hadria's powers in that
                        direction. Hopelessness was her nearest approach to that condition of
                        cheerful acquiescence which, Hadria had herself said, profound faith or
                        profound stupidity can perhaps equally inspire.
                    
                    “At least,” said Valeria, “you know that you are useful and helpful to those
                        around you. You make your mother happy.”
                    “No, my mother is not happy. My work is negative. I just manage to prevent
                        her dying of grief. One must not be too ambitious in this stern world. One
                        can't make people happy merely by reducing oneself, morally, to a jelly.
                        Sometimes, by that means, one can dodge battle and murder and sudden
                        death.”
                    “It is terrible!” cried Valeria.
                    “But meanwhile one lays the seed of future calamities, to avoid which some
                        other future woman will have to become jelly. The process always reminds me
                        of the old practice of the Anglo-Saxon kings, who used to buy off the Danes
                        when they threatened invasion, and so pampered the enemy whom their
                        successors would afterwards have to buy off at a still more ruinous cost. I
                        am buying off the Danes, Valeria.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XL.
                    “DO you know it is a year to-day, since we came to this cottage?”
                        exclaimed Mrs. Fullerton. “How the time flies!”
                    The remark was made before the party settled to the evening's whist.
                    “You are looking very much better than you did a month after your illness,
                        Mrs. Fullerton,” said Joseph Fleming, who was to take a hand, while Hadria
                        played Grieg or Chopin, or Scottish melodies to please the old people. The
                        whist-players enjoyed music during the game.
                    “Ah, I shall never be well,” said Mrs. Fullerton. “One can't recover from
                        long worry, Mr. Fleming. Shall we cut for partners?”
                    It was a quaint, low-pitched little room, filled with familiar furniture from
                        Dunaghee, which recalled the old place at every turn. The game went on in
                        silence. The cards were dealt, taken up, shuffled, sorted, played, massed
                        together, cut, dealt, sorted, and so on, round and round; four grave faces
                        deeply engrossed in the process, while the little room was filled with
                        music.
                    Mrs. Fullerton had begun to feel slightly uneasy about her daughter. “So much
                        nursing has told upon her,” said everyone. The illness of the two boys had
                        come at an unfortunate moment. She looked worn and white, and dreadfully
                        thin. She seemed cheerful, and at times her mood was even merry, but she
                        could not recover strength. At the end of the day, she would be completely
                        exhausted. This had not been surprising at first, after the long strain of
                            nursing, but Mrs. Fullerton thought it
                        was time that she began to mend. She feared that Hadria spent too many hours
                        over her composing; she sat up at night, perhaps. What good did all this
                        composing do? Nobody ever heard of it. Such a sad pity that she could not
                        see the folly of persevering in the fruitless effort.
                    Lady Engleton was sure that Hadria saw too few people, lived too monotonous a
                        life. Craddock Place was filled with guests just now, and Lady Engleton used
                        her utmost persuasion to induce Hubert and Hadria to come to dinner, or to
                        join the party, in the evening, whenever they could.
                    Hadria shrank from the idea. It was adding another burden to her already
                        failing strength. To talk coherently, to be lively and make oneself
                        agreeable, to have to think about one's dress,—it all seemed inexpressibly
                        wearisome. But Lady Engleton was so genuinely eager to administer her cure
                        that Hadria yielded, half in gratitude, half in order to save the effort of
                        further resistance.
                    She dragged herself upstairs to dress, wishing to heaven she had refused,
                        after all. The thought of the lights, the sound of voices, the complexity of
                        elements and of life that she had to encounter, made her shrink into
                        herself. She had only one evening gown suitable for the occasion. It was of
                        some white silken stuff, with dull rich surface. A bunch of yellow roses and
                        green leaves formed the decoration. Hubert approved of her appearance. To
                        her own surprise she felt some new feeling creep into her, under the
                        influence of the exquisite attire. It put her a little more in tune. At
                        least there were beautiful and dainty things in the world. The fresh green
                        of the rose leaves, and the full yet delicate yellow of the fragrant roses
                        on the creamy lace, evoked a feeling akin to the emotion stirred by certain
                        kinds of music; or, in other words, the artistic sensibility had been
                        appealed to through colour and texture, instead of through harmony.
                    The drawing-room at Craddock Place was glowing with subdued candle-light.
                        Lady Engleton's rooms carried one back to a past epoch, among the dainty
                        fancies and art of a sore leisurely and
                        less vulgar century. Lady Engleton admitted nothing that had not the quality
                        of distinction, let have what other quality it might. Hadria's mood,
                        initiated at home, received impetus at Craddock Place. It was a luxurious
                        mood. She desired to receive rather than to give: to be delicately
                        ministered to; to claim the services of generations of artists, who had
                        toiled with fervour to attain that grand ease and simplicity, through
                        faithful labour and the benison of heaven.
                    Hadria had attracted many eyes as she entered the room. Unquestionably she
                        was looking her best to-night, in spite of her extreme pallor. She was
                        worthy to take her place among the beautiful objects of art that Lady
                        Engleton had collected found her. She had the same quality. Hubert vaguely
                        perceived this. He heard the idea expressed in so many words by a voice that
                        he knew. He looked round, and saw Professor Theobald bending confidentially
                        towards Joseph Fleming.
                    “Oh, Professor, I did not know you were to be here to-night!”
                    “What has your guardian spirit been about, not to forewarn you?” asked the
                        Professor.
                    “I am thinking of giving my guardian spirit a month's learning,” returned
                        Hubert; “he has been extremely neglectful of late. And how have you been
                        getting on all this time, Professor?”
                    Theobald gave some fantastic answer, and crossed the room to Mrs. Temperley,
                        who was by this time surrounded by a group of acquaintances, among them
                        Madame Bertaux, who had just come from Paris, and had news of all Hadria's
                        friends there.
                    “Mrs. Temperley, may I also ask for one passing glance of recognition?”
                    Hadria turned round with a little start, and a sudden unaccountable sense of
                        disaster.
                    “Professor Theobald!”
                    She did not look pleased to see him, and as they shook hands, his mouth shut
                        sharply, as it always did when his self-
                        love was wounded. Then, a gleam of resolve or cunning came into his face,
                        and the next instant he was at his suavest.
                    “Do you know, Mrs. Temperley, I scarcely recognized you when you first came
                        in. ‘Who can this beautiful, distinguished-looking woman be?’ I said to
                        myself.”
                    Hadria smiled maliciously.
                    “You think I am so much changed?”
                    Professor Theobald began to chuckle.
                    “The trowel, I see, is still your weapon,” she added, “but I am surprised
                        that you have not learnt to wield the implement of sway with more dexterity,
                        Professor.”
                    “I am not accustomed to deal with such quick-witted ladies, Mrs.
                        Temperley.”
                    “You shew your hand most frankly,” she answered; “it almost disarms one.”
                    A few introductory chords sounded through the room. Hadria was sitting in
                        front of the window, across which the pale green curtains had been drawn.
                        Many eyes wandered towards her.
                    “I should like to paint you just like that,” murmured Lady Engleton; “you
                        can't imagine what a perfect bit of harmony you make, with my brocade.” A
                        cousin of Lord Engleton was at the piano. He played an old French
                        gavotte.
                    “That is the finishing touch,” added Lady Engleton, below her breath. “I
                        should like to paint you and the curtains and Claude Moreton's gavotte all
                        together.”
                    The performance was received with enthusiasm. It deepened Hadria's mood, set
                        her pulses dancing. She assented readily to the request of her hostess that
                        she should play. She chose something fantastic and dainty. It had a certain
                        remoteness from life.
                    “Like one of Watteau's pictures,” said Claude Moreton, who was hanging over
                        the piano. He was tall and dark, with an expression that betrayed his
                        enthusiastic temperament. A group had collected, among them Professor
                        Theobald. Beside him stood Marion Fenwick, the bride whose wedding had taken
                        place at Craddock Church about eighteen months before.
                    
                    It seemed as if Hadria were exercising some influence of a magnetic quality.
                        She was always the point of attraction, whether she created a spell with her
                        music, or her speech, or her mere personality. In her present mood, this was
                        peculiarly gratifying. The long divorce from initiative work which events
                        had compelled, the loss of nervous vigour, the destruction of dream and
                        hope, had all tended to throw her back on more accessible forms of art and
                        expression, and suggested passive rather than active dealings with life. She
                        was wearied with petty responsibilities, and what she called semi-detached
                        duties. It was a relief to sit down in white silk and lace, and draw people
                        to her simply by the cheap spell of good looks and personal magnetism. That
                        she possessed these advantages, her life in Paris had made obvious. It was
                        the first time that she had been in contact with a large number of widely
                        differing types, and she had found that she could appeal to them all, if she
                        would. Since her return to England, anxieties and influences extremely
                        depressing had accustomed her to a somewhat gloomy atmosphere. To-night the
                        atmosphere was light and soft, brilliant and enervating.
                    “This is my Capua,” she said laughingly, to her hostess.
                    It invited every luxurious instinct to come forth and sun itself. Marion
                        Fenwick's soft, sweet voice, singing Italian songs to the accompaniment of
                        the guitar, repeated the invitation.
                    It was like a fairy gift. Energy would be required to refuse it. And why, in
                        heaven's name, if she might not have what she really wanted, was she to be
                        denied even the poor little triumphs of ornamental womanhood? Was the social
                        order which had frustrated her own ambitions to dominate her conscience, and
                        persuade her voluntarily to resign that one kingdom which
                        cannot be taken from a woman, so long as her beauty lasts?
                    Why should she abdicate? The human being was obviously susceptible to
                        personality beyond all other things. And beauty moved that absurd creature
                        preposterously. There, at least, the woman who chanced to be born with these
                        superficial attractions, had a royal territory, so long as she could prevent
                        her clamorous fellows from harassing and wearing those attractions away. By
                        no direct attack could the jealous powers dethrone her. They could only do
                        it indirectly, by appealing to the conscience which they had trained; to the
                        principles that they had instilled; by convincing the woman that she owed
                        herself, as a debt, to her legal owner, to be paid in coined fragments of
                        her being, till she should end in inevitable bankruptcy, and the legal owner
                        himself found her a poor investment!
                    It would have startled that roomful of people, who expressed everything
                        circuitously, pleasantly, without rough edges, had they read beneath Mrs.
                        Temperley's spoken words, these unspoken thoughts.
                    Marion Fenwick's songs and the alluring softness of her guitar, seemed the
                        most fitting accompaniment to the warm summer night, whose breath stirred
                        gently the curtains by the open window, at the far end of the room.
                    Lady Engleton was delighted with the success of her efforts. Mrs. Temperley
                        had not looked so brilliant, so full of life, since her mother's illness.
                        Only yesterday, when she met her returning from the Cottage, her eyes were
                        like those of a dying woman, and now—!
                    “People say ill-natured things about Mrs. Temperley,” she confided to an
                        intimate friend, “but that is because they don't understand her.”
                    People might have been forgiven for not understanding her, as perhaps her
                        hostess felt, noticing Hadria's animation, and the extraordinary power that
                        she was wielding over everyone in the room, young and old. That power seemed
                        to burn in the deep eyes, whose expression changed from moment to moment.
                        Hadria's cheeks, for once, had a faint tinge of colour. The mysterious
                        character of her beauty became more marked. Professor Theobald followed her,
                        with admiring and studious gaze. Whether she had felt remorseful for her
                        somewhat unfriendly greeting at the beginning of the evening, or from some other cause, her manner to him had
                        changed. It was softer, less mocking. He perceived it instantly, and pursued
                        his advantage. The party still centred eagerly round the piano. Hadria was
                        under the influence of music; therefore less careful and guarded than usual,
                        more ready to sway on the waves of emotion. And beyond all these influences,
                        tending in the same direction, was the underlying spirit of rebellion
                        against the everlasting “Thou shalt not” that met a woman at every point,
                        and turned her back from all paths save one. And following that one (so ran
                        Hadria's insurrectionary thoughts), the obedient creature had to give up
                        every weapon of her womanhood; every grace, every power; tramping along that
                        crowded highway, whereon wayworn sisters toil forward, with bandaged eyes,
                        and bleeding feet; and as their charm fades, in the pursuing of their dusty
                        pilgrimage, the shouts, and taunts, and insults, and laughter of their
                        taskmasters follow them, while still they stumble on to the darkening land
                        that awaits them, at the journey's end: Old Age, the vestibule of Death.
                    Hadria's eyes gleamed strangely.
                    “They shall not have their way with me too easily. I can at least give my
                        pastors and masters a little trouble. I can at least fight for it, losing
                        battle though it be.”
                    The only person who seemed to resist Hadria's influence to-night, was Mrs.
                        Jordan, the mother of Marion Fenwick.
                    “My dear madam,” said Professor Theobald, bending over the portly form of
                        Mrs. Jordan, “a woman's first duty is to be charming.”
                    “Oh, that comes naturally, Professor,” said Hadria, “though it is rather for
                            you than for me to say that. You are always
                        missing opportunities.”
                    “Believe me, I will miss them no more,” he said emphatically.
                    “Tell us your idea of a woman's duty, Mrs. Jordan,” prompted Madame Bertaux
                        maliciously. Mrs. Jordan delivered herself of various immemorial sentiments
                        which met the usual applause. But Madame Bertaux said brusquely that she thought if that sort of thing were
                        preached at women much longer, they would end by throwing over duty
                        altogether, in sheer disgust at the whole one-sided business. Mrs. Jordan
                        bristled, and launched herself upon a long and virtuous sentence. Her
                        daughter Marion looked up sharply when Madame Bertaux spoke. Then a timid,
                        cautious glance fell on her mother. Marion had lost her freshness and her
                        exquisite ætherial quality; otherwise there was little change in her
                        appearance. Hadria was struck by the way in which she had looked at Madame
                        Bertaux, and it occurred to her that Marion Fenwick was probably not quite
                        so acquiescent and satisfied as her friends supposed. But she would not
                        speak out. Early training had been too strong for her.
                    Professor Theobald was unusually serious to-night. He did not respond to
                        Hadria's flippancy. He looked at her with grave, sympathetic eyes. He seemed
                        to intimate that he understood all that was passing in her mind, and was not
                        balked by sprightly appearances. There was no sign of cynicism now, no
                        bandying of compliments. His voice had a new ring of sincerity. It was a
                        mood that Hadria had noticed in him once or twice before, and when it
                        occurred, her sympathy was aroused; she felt that she had done him
                        injustice. This was evidently the real man; his ordinary manner
                        must be merely the cloak that the civilized being acquires the habit of
                        wrapping round him, as a protection against the curiosity of his fellows.
                        The Professor himself expressed it almost in those words: “It is because of
                        the infinite variety of type and the complexity of modern life which the
                        individual is called upon to encounter, that a sort of fancy dress has to be
                        worn by all of us, as a necessary shield to our individuality and our
                        privacy. We cannot go through the complex process of adjustment to each new
                        type that we come across, so by common consent, we wear our domino, and
                        respect the unwritten laws of the great bal
                            masqué that we call society.”
                    The conversation took more and more intimate and serious turns. Mrs. Jordan
                        was the only check upon it. Madame Bertaux
                        followed up her first heresy by others even more bold.
                    “Whenever one wants very particularly to have one's way about a matter,” she
                        said, “one sneaks off and gets somebody else persuaded that it is his duty
                        to sacrifice himself for us—c'est tout
                            simple—and the chances are that he meekly does it. If he
                        doesn't, at least one has the satisfaction of making him feel a guilty
                        wretch, and setting oneself up with a profitable grievance for life.”
                    “To the true woman,” said Mrs. Jordan, who had ruled her family with a rod of
                        iron for thirty stern years, “there is no joy to equal that of
                        self-sacrifice.”
                    “Except that of exacting it,” added Hadria.
                    “I advise everyone desirous of dominion to preach that duty, in and out of
                        season,” said Madame Bertaux. “It is seldom that the victims even howl, so
                        well have we trained them.”
                    “Truly I hope so!” cried Professor Theobald. “It must be most galling when
                        their lamentations prevent one from committing one's justifiable homicide in
                        peace and quietness. Imagine the discomfort of having a half-educated victim
                        to deal with, who can't hold his tongue and let one perform the operation
                        quietly and comfortably. It is enough to embitter any Christian!”
                    The party broke up, with many cordial expressions of pleasure, and several
                        plans were made for immediately meeting again. Lady Engleton was delighted
                        to see that Mrs. Temperley entered with animation, into some projects for
                        picnics and excursions in the neighbourhood.
                    “Did I not tell you that all you wanted was a little lively society?” she
                        said, with genuine warmth, as the two women stood in the hall, a little
                        apart from the others.
                    Hadria's eyelids suddenly fell and reddened slightly.
                    “Oh, you are so kind!” she exclaimed, in a voice whose tones betrayed the
                        presence of suppressed tears.
                    Lady Engleton, in astonishment, stretched out a sisterly hand, but Hadria had
                        vanished through the open hall door into the darkness without.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLI.
                    MRS. TEMPERLEY was much discussed at Craddock Place. Professor
                        Theobald preserved the same grave mood whenever she was present. He only
                        returned to his usual manner, in her absence. “Theobald has on his Mrs.
                        Temperley manner,” Claude Moreton used to say. The latter was himself among
                        her admirers.
                    “I begin to be afraid that Claude is taking her too seriously,” Lady Engleton
                        remarked to her husband. He had fired up on one occasion when Professor
                        Theobald said something flippant about Mrs. Temperley. Claude Moreton's
                        usual calmness had caused the sudden outburst to be noticed with surprise.
                        He hated Professor Theobald.
                    “What possesses you both to let that fellow come here so much?”
                    “The Professor? Oh, he is a very old friend, you know, and extremely clever.
                        One has to put up with his manner.”
                    Claude Moreton grunted. “These, at any rate, are no reasons why Mrs.
                        Temperley should put up with his manner!”
                    “But, my dear Claude, as you are always pointing out, the Professor has a
                        special manner which he keeps exclusively for her.”
                    The special manner had already worked wonders. The Professor was to Hadria by
                        far the most entertaining person of the party. He had always amused her, and
                        even the first time she saw him, he had exercised a strange, unpleasant
                        fascination over her, which had put her on the defensive, for she had
                        disliked and distrusted him. The meetings in the Priory gardens had softened
                        her hostility, and now she began to feel more and more that she had judged
                        him unfairly. In those days she had a strong pre-occupying interest. He had
                        arrived on the scene at an exciting moment, just when she was planning out her flight to Paris. She had not
                        considered the Professor's character very deeply. There were far too many
                        other things to think of. It was simpler to avoid him. But now everything
                        had changed. The present moment was not exciting; she had no plans and
                        projects in her head; she was not about to court the fate of Icarus. That
                        fate had already overtaken her. The waves were closing over-head; her wings
                        were wet and crippled, in the blue depths. Why not take what the gods had
                        sent and make the most of it?
                    The Professor had all sorts of strange lore, which he used, in his
                        conversations with Hadria, almost as a fisherman uses his bait. If she
                        shewed an inclination to re-join the rest of the party, he always brought
                        out some fresh titbit of curious learning, and Hadria was seldom able to
                        resist the lure.
                    They met often, almost of necessity. It was impossible to feel a stranger to
                        the Professor, in these circumstances of frequent and informal meeting.
                        Often when Hadria happened to be alone with him, she would become suddenly
                        silent, as if she no longer felt the necessity to talk or to conceal her
                        weariness. The Professor knew it too well; he saw how heavily the burden of
                        life weighed upon her, and how it was often almost more than she could do,
                        to drag through the day. She craved for excitement, no matter of what kind,
                        in order to help her to forget her weariness. Her anxiety about Professor
                        Fortescue preyed upon her. She was restless, overwrought, with every nerve
                        on edge, unable now for consecutive work, even had events permitted it. She
                        followed the advice and took the medicines of a London doctor, whom Mrs.
                        Fullerton had entreated her to consult, but she gained no ground.
                    “I begin to understand how it is that people take to drinking,” she said to
                        Algitha, who used to bemoan this vice, with its terrible results, of which
                        she had seen so much.
                    “Ah! don't talk of it in that light way!” cried Algitha. “It is the fashion
                        to treat it airily, but if people only knew what an awful curse it is, I
                        think they would feel ashamed to be ‘moderate’ and indifferent about
                        it.”
                    “I don't mean to treat it or anything that brings harm and suffering ‘moderately,’” returned Hadria. “I mean
                        only that I can see why the vice is so common. It causes forgetfulness, and
                        I suppose most people crave for that.”
                    “I think, Hadria, if I may be allowed to say so, that you are finding your
                        excitement in another direction.”
                    “You mean that I am trying to find a substitute for the pleasures of
                        drunkenness in those of flirtation.”
                    “I should not like to think that you had descended to conscious
                        flirtation.”
                    Hadria looked steadily into the flames. They were in the morning-room, where
                        towards night-fall, even in summer, a small fire usually burnt in the
                        grate.
                    “When I remember what you used to think and what you used to be to us all, in
                        the old days at Dunaghee, I feel bitterly pained at what you are doing,
                        Hadria. You don't know where it may lead to, and besides it seems so beneath
                        you in every way.”
                    “Appeals to the conscience!” cried Hadria, “I knew they would begin!”
                    “You knew what would begin?”
                    “Appeals, exhortations to forego the sole remaining interest, opportunity, or
                        amusement that is left one! Ah, dear Algitha, I know you mean it kindly and
                        I admire you for speaking out, but I am not going to be cajoled in that way!
                        I am not going to be turned back and set tramping along the stony old road,
                        so long as I can find a pleasanter by-way to loiter in. It sounds bad I
                        know. Our drill affects us to the last, through every fibre. My duty! By
                        what authority do people choose for me my duty? If I can be forced to abide
                        by their decision in the matter, let them be satisfied with their power to
                        coerce me, but let them leave my conscience alone. It does not dance to
                        their piping.”
                    “But you cannot care for this sort of excitement, Hadria.”
                    “If I can get nothing else—?”
                    “Even then, I can't see what you can find in it to make you willing to sink
                        from your old ideals.”
                    “Ideals! A woman with ideals is like a drowning creature with a millstone
                        round its neck! I have had enough of ideals!”
                    
                    “It is a sad day to me when I hear you say so, Hadria!” the sister
                        exclaimed.
                    “Algitha, there is just one solitary weapon that can't be taken
                        from a woman—and so it is considerately left to her. Ah, it is a dangerous
                        toy when brandished dexterously! Sometimes it sends a man or two away
                        howling. Our pastors and masters have a wholesome dread of the murderous
                        thing—and what wails, and satires, and lamentations it inspires! Consult the
                        literature of all lands and ages! Heaven-piercing! The only way of dealing
                        with the awkward dilemma is to get the woman persuaded to be ‘good,’ and to
                        lay down her weapon of her own accord, and let it rust. How many women have
                        been so persuaded! Not I!”
                    “I know, and I understand how you feel; but oh, Hadria, this is
                        not the way to fight, this will bring no good to anyone. And as
                        for admiration, the admiration of men—why, you know it is not worth
                        having—of this sort.”
                    “Oh, do I not know it! It is less than worthless. But I am not seeking
                        anything of permanent value; I am seeking excitement, and the superficial
                        satisfaction of brandishing the weapon that everyone would be charmed to see
                        me lay in the dust. I won't lay it down to please anybody. Dear
                        me, it will soon rust of its own accord. You might as well ask some luckless
                        warrior who stands at bay, facing overwhelming odds, to yield up his sword
                        and leave himself defenceless. It is an insult to one's common sense.”
                    Algitha's remonstrance seemed only to inflame her sister's mood, so she said
                        no more. But she watched Hadria's increasingly reckless conduct, with great
                        uneasiness.
                    “It really is exciting!” exclaimed Hadria, with a strange smile.
                        The whole party had migrated for the day, to the hills at a distance of
                        about ten miles from Craddock Dene. A high spot had been chosen, on the edge
                        of woodland shade, looking out over a wide distance of plain and far-off
                        ranges. Here, as Claude Moreton remarked, they were to spoil the landscape,
                        by taking their luncheon.
                    “Or what is worse, by giving ourselves rheumatism,” added Lord Engleton.
                    
                    “What grumbling creatures men are!” exclaimed his wife, “and what pleasures
                        they lose for themselves and make impossible for others, by this stupid
                        habit of dwelling upon the disadvantages of a situation, instead of on its
                        charms.”
                    “We ought to dwell upon the fowl and the magnificent prospect, and ignore the
                        avenging rheumatism,” said Claude Moreton.
                    “Oh no, guard against it,” advised Algitha, with characteristic common sense.
                        “Sit on this waterproof, for instance.”
                    “Ah, there you have the true philosophy!” cried Professor Theobald.
                        “Contentment and forethought. Observe the symbol of forethought.” He spread
                        the waterproof to the wind.
                    “There is nothing like a contented spirit!” cried Lady Engleton.
                    “Who is it that says you knock a man into a ditch, and then you tell him to
                        remain content in the position in which Providence has placed him?” asked
                        Hadria.
                    “Even contentment has its dangers,” said Claude Moreton, dreamily.
                    At the end of the meal, Hadria rose from the rug where she had been
                        reclining, with the final assertion, that she thought the man who was
                        knocked into the ditch and told to do his duty there, would do the best
                        service to mankind, as well as to himself, by making a horrid clamour and
                        trying to get out again. A group collected round her, almost
                        immediately.
                    “Mrs. Fenwick, won't you give us a song!” cried Madame Bertaux. “I see you
                        have been kind enough to bring your guitar.”
                    Marion was enthroned upon the picnic-basket, with much pomp, and her guitar
                        placed in her hand by Claude Moreton. Her figure, in her white gown and
                        large straw hat, had for background the shadows of thick woods.
                    Professor Theobald sank down on the grass at Hadria's side. She felt that his
                        mood was agitated. She could not be in much doubt as to its cause. The
                        reckless rôle that she had been playing
                        was bringing its result. Hadria was half alarmed, half exultant. She had a
                        strange, vague notion of selling her life
                        dearly, to the enemy. Only, of late, this feeling had been mixed with
                        another, of which she was scarcely conscious. The subtle fascination which
                        the Professor exercised over her had taken a stronger hold, far stronger
                        than she knew.
                    She was sitting on a little knoll, her arm resting on her knee, and her cheek
                        in her hand. In the exquisitely graceful attitude, was an element of
                        self-abandonment. It seemed as if she had grown tired of guiding and
                        directing herself, and were now commending herself to fate or fortune, to do
                        with her as they would, or must.
                    Marion struck a quiet chord. Her voice was sweet and tender and full,
                        admirably suited to the song. Every nerve in Hadria answered to her
                        tones.
                    
                        
                            “Oh, gather me the rose, the rose
                            While yet in flower we find it;
                            For summer smiles, but summer goes,
                            And winter waits behind it.
                        
                        
                            “For with the dream foregone, foregone,
                            The deed foreborne for ever,
                            The worm regret will canker on,
                            And time will turn him never.”
                        
                    
                    Professor Theobald shifted his position slightly.
                    
                        
                            “Ah, well it were to love, my love,
                            And cheat of any laughter
                            The fate beneath us and above,
                            The dark before and after.
                        
                        
                            “The myrtle and the rose, the rose,
                            The sunlight and the swallow,
                            The dream that comes, the dream that goes,
                            The memories that follow.”
                            
                        
                    
                    The song was greeted with a vague stir among the silent audience. A little
                        breeze gave a deep satisfied sigh, among the trees.
                    Several other songs followed, and then the party broke up. They were to amuse
                        themselves as they pleased during the afternoon, and to meet on the same
                        spot for five o'clock tea.
                    “I wish Hadria would not be so reckless!” cried Algitha
                        anxiously. “Have you seen her lately?”
                    
                    “When last I saw her,” said Valeria, “she had strolled off with the Professor
                        and Mr. Moreton. Mr. Fleming and Lord Engleton were following with Mrs.
                        Fenwick.”
                    “There is safety in numbers, at any rate, but I am distressed about her. It
                        is all very well what she says, about not allowing her woman's sole weapon
                        to be wrenched from her, but she can't use it in this way, safely. One can't
                        play with human emotions without coming to grief.”
                    “A man, at any rate, has no idea of being led an emotional dance,” said Miss
                        Du Prel.
                    “Hadria has, I believe, at the bottom of her heart, a lurking desire to hurt
                        men, because they have hurt women so terribly,” said Algitha.
                    “One can understand the impulse, but the worst of it is, that one is certain
                        to pay back the score on the good man, and let the other go free.”
                    Algitha shook her head, regretfully.
                    “Did Hadria never show this impulse before?”
                    “Never in my life have I seen her exercise her power so ruthlessly.”
                    “I rather think she is wise after all,” said Miss Du Prel reflectively. “She
                        might be sorry some day never to have tasted what she is tasting now.”
                    “But it seems to me dreadful. There is not a man who is not influenced by her
                        in the strangest manner; even poor Joseph Fleming, who used to look up to
                        her so. In my opinion, she is acting very wrongly.”
                    “‘He that has eaten his fill does not pity the hungry,’ as the Eastern
                        proverb puts it. Come now, Algitha, imagine yourself to be cut off from the
                        work that supremely interests you, and thrown upon Craddock Dene without
                        hope of respite, for the rest of your days. Don't you think you too might be
                        tempted to try experiments with a power whose strength you had found to be
                        almost irresistible?”
                    “Perhaps I should,” Algitha admitted.
                    “I don't say she is doing right, but you must remember that you have not the temperament that prompts to
                        these outbursts. I suppose that is only to say that you are better than
                        Hadria, by nature. I think perhaps you are, but remember you have had the
                        life and the work that you chose above all others—she has not.”
                    “Heaven knows I don't set myself above Hadria,” cried Algitha. “I have always
                        looked up to her. Don't you know how painful it is when people you respect
                        do things beneath them?”
                    “Hadria will disappoint us all in some particular,” said Miss Du Prel. “She
                        will not correspond exactly to anybody's theory or standard, not even her
                        own. It is a defect which gives her character a quality of the unexpected,
                        that has for me, infinite attraction.”
                    Miss Du Prel had never shewn so much disposition to support Hadria's conduct
                        as now, when disapproval was general. She had a strong fellow-feeling for a
                        woman who desired to use her power, and she was half disposed to regard her
                        conduct as legitimate. At any rate, it was a temptation almost beyond one's
                        powers of resistance. If a woman might not do this, what, in heaven's name,
                            might she do? Was she not eternally referred to her woman's
                        influence, her woman's kingdom? Surely a day's somewhat murderous sport was
                        allowable in that realm! After all, energy, ambition, nervous
                        force, must have an outlet somewhere. Men could look after
                        themselves. They had no mercy on women when they lay in their power. Why
                        should a woman be so punctilious?
                    “Only the man is sure to get the best of it,” she added, bitterly. “He loses
                        so little. It is a game where the odds are all on one side, and the
                        conclusion foregone.”
                    Unexpectedly, the underwood behind the speakers was brushed aside and Hadria
                        appeared before them. She looked perturbed.
                    “What is it? Why are you by yourself?”
                    “Oh, our party split up, long ago, into cliques, and we all became so select,
                        that, at last, we reduced each clique to one member. Behold the very acme of selectness!” Hadria stood before them, in
                        an attitude of hauteur.
                    “This sounds like evasion,” said Algitha.
                    “And if it were, what right have you to try to force me to tell what I do not
                        volunteer?”
                    “True,” said her sister; “I beg your pardon.”
                    Miss Du Prel rose. “I will leave you to yourselves,” she said, walking
                        away.
                    Hadria sat down and rested one elbow on the grass, looking over the sweep of
                        the hill towards the distance. “That is almost like our old vision in the
                        caves, Algitha; mist and distant lands—it was a false prophecy. You were
                        talking about me when I came up, were you not?”
                    “Did you hear?”
                    “No, but I feel sure of it.”
                    “Well, I confess it,” said Algitha. “We are both very uneasy about you.”
                    “If one never did anything all one's life to make one's friends uneasy, I
                        wonder if one would have any fun.”
                    Algitha shook her head anxiously.
                    “‘Choose what you want and pay for it,’ is the advice of some accredited
                        sage,” Hadria observed.
                    “Women have to pay so high,” said Algitha.
                    “So much the worse, but there is such a thing as false economy.”
                    “But seriously, Hadria, if one may speak frankly, I can't see that the game
                        is worth the candle. You have tested your power sufficiently. What more do
                        you want? Claude Moreton is too nice and too good a man to trifle with. And
                        poor Joseph Fleming! That is to me beyond everything.”
                    Hadria flushed deeply.
                    “I never dreamt that he—I—I never tried, never thought for a moment—”
                    “Ah! that is just the danger, Hadria. Your actions entail unintended
                        consequences. As Miss Du Prel says, ‘It is always the good men whom one
                        wounds; the others wound us.’” Hadria was
                        silent. “And Claude Moreton,” continued Algitha presently. “He is far too
                        deeply interested in you, far too absorbed in what you say and do. I have
                        watched him. It is cruel.”
                    Hadria grew fierce. “Has he never cruelly injured a woman? Has
                            he not at least given moral support to the hideous
                        indignities that all womanhood has to endure at men's hands? At best one can
                        make a man suffer. But men also humiliate us, degrade us, jeer at, ridicule
                        the miseries that they and their society entail upon us. Yet for sooth, they
                        must be spared the discomfort of becoming a little infatuated with a woman
                        for a time—a short time, at worst! Their feelings must be considered so
                        tenderly!”
                    “But what good do you do by your present conduct?” asked Algitha, sticking
                        persistently to the practical side of the matter.
                    “I am not trying to do good. I am merely refusing to obey these rules for our
                        guidance, which are obviously drawn up to safeguard man's property and
                        privilege. Whenever I can find a man-made precept, that will I carefully
                        disobey; whenever the ruling powers seek to guide me through my conscience,
                        there shall they fail!”
                    “You forget that in playing with the feelings of others you are placing
                        yourself in danger, Hadria. How can you be sure that you won't yourself fall
                        desperately in love with one of your intended victims?” Hadria's eyes
                        sparkled.
                    “I wish to heaven I only could!” she exclaimed. “I would give my right hand
                        to be in the sway of a complete undoubting, unquestioning passion that would
                        make all suffering and all life seem worth while; some emotion to take the
                        place of my lost art, some full and satisfying sense of union with a human
                        soul to rescue one from the ghastly solitude of life. But I am raving like a
                        girl. I am crying for the moon.”
                    “Ah, take care, take care, Hadria; that is a mood in which one may mistake
                        any twopenny-halfpenny little luminary for the impossible moon.”
                    “I think I should be almost ready to bless the beautiful illusion,” cried
                        Hadria passionately.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLII.
                    IN the conversation with her sister, the name which Hadria had
                        dreaded to hear had not been mentioned. She felt as if she could not have
                        met her sister's eyes, at that moment, had she alluded to Professor
                        Theobald; for only five minutes before, in the wood, he had spoken to her in
                        a way that was scarcely possible to misunderstand, though his wording was so
                        cautious that she could not have taken offence, had she been so minded,
                        without drawing upon herself the possible retort. “My dear lady, you have
                        completely misunderstood me.” The thought made her flush painfully. But
                        suppose he really had meant what his words seemed to imply? He
                        could intend no insult, because he despised, and knew that she despised,
                        popular social creeds. Into what new realms was she drifting? There was
                        something attractive to Hadria, in the idea of defying the world's laws. It
                        was not as the dutiful property of another, but as herself, a separate and
                        responsible individual, that she would act and feel, rightly or wrongly, as
                        the case might be. That was a matter between herself and her conscience, not
                        between herself and the world or her legal owner.
                    The Professor's ambiguous and yet startling speech had forced her to consider
                        her position. She remembered how her instinct had always been to hold him
                        aloof from her life, just because, as she now began to believe, there was
                        something in him that powerfully attracted her. She had feared an attraction
                        that appeared unjustified by the man's character. But now the fascination
                        had begun to take a stronger grip, as the pre-occupying ideas of her life
                        had been chased from their places. It had
                        insensibly crept in to fill the empty throne. So long as she had cherished
                        hope, so long as she was still struggling, this insidious half-magnetic
                        influence had been easily resisted. Now, she was set adrift; her anchor was
                        raised; she lay at the wind's mercy, half-conscious of the peril and not
                        caring.
                    Professor Theobald had an acute perception of the strange and confused
                        struggle that was going on in her mind. But he had no notion of the peculiar
                        reasons, in her case, for an effect that he knew to be far from rare among
                        women; he did not understand the angry, corroding action of a strong
                        artistic impulse that was incessantly baulked in full tide. The sinister,
                        menacing voices of that tide had no meaning for him, except as expressing a
                            malaise which he had met with a
                        hundred times before. He put it down to an excess of emotional or nervous
                        energy, in a nature whose opportunities did not offer full scope to its
                        powers. He had grasped the general conditions, but he had not perceived the
                        particular fact that added tenfold to the evil which exists in the more
                        usual, and less complicated case.
                    He thought but little of a musical gift, having no sympathy with music; and
                        since he had never known what it was to receive anything but help and
                        encouragement in the exercise of his own talents, the effect upon the mind
                        and character of such an experience as Hadria's, was beyond the range of his
                        conceptions. He understood subtly, and misunderstood completely, at one and
                        the same time. But to Hadria, every syllable which revealed how much he did
                        understand, seemed to prove, by implication, that he understood the whole.
                        It never occurred to her that he was blinder than Henriette herself, to the
                        real centre and heart of the difficulty.
                    It has been said that what the human being longs for above all things, is to
                        be understood: that he prefers it infinitely to being over-rated. Professor
                        Theobald gave Hadria this desired sensation. His attraction for her was
                        composed of many elements, and it was enhanced by the fact that she had now grown so used to his presence, as
                        to cease to notice many little traits that had repelled her, at the
                        beginning. Her critical instincts were lulled. Thus had come to pass that
                        which is by no means an uncommon incident in human history: a toleration for
                        and finally a strong attraction towards a nature that began by creating
                        distrust, and even dislike.
                    Hadria's instinct now was to hunt up reasons for desiring the society of
                        Professor Theobald, for the gladness that she felt at the prospect of seeing
                        him. She wished to explain to herself how it was that he had become so
                        prominent a figure in her life. It was surprising how rapidly and how
                        completely he had taken a central position. Her feeling towards him, and her
                        admiring affection for Professor Fortescue, were as different as night from
                        day. She shrank from comparing the two emotions, because at the bottom of
                        her heart, she felt how infinitely less fine and sound was this latter
                        attachment, how infinitely less to be welcomed. If any one spoke
                        disparagingly of Professor Theobald, Hadria's instinct was to stand up for
                        him, to find ingenious reasons for his words or his conduct that threw upon
                        him the most favourable light, and her object was as much to persuade
                        herself as to convince her interlocutor. What the Professor had said this
                        afternoon, had brought her to a point whence she had to review all these
                        changes and developments of her feeling. She puzzled herself profoundly. In
                        remembering those few words, she was conscious of a little thrill of—not joy
                        (the word was too strong), but of something akin to it. She thought—and then
                        laughed at herself—that it had a resemblance to the sensation that is caused
                        to the mind by the suggestion of some new and entrancingly interesting
                        idea—say about astronomy! And if she consulted her mere wishes in the
                        matter, apart from all other considerations, she would explore farther in
                        this direction. Whether curiosity or sentiment actuated her, she could not
                        detect. It would certainly be deeply exciting to find out what her own
                        nature really was, and still more so to gain greater insight into his. Was
                        this heartless, cold-blooded? Or was it that she felt a lurking capacity for a feeling stronger than—or
                        at any rate different from—any that she had hitherto felt? This was a secret
                        that she could not discover. Hadria gave a frightened start. Was she finding
                        herself to be bad in a way that she had never suspected? If she could but
                        fully and completely escape from tradition, so that her judgment might be
                        quite unhampered. Tradition seemed either to make human beings blindly
                        submissive, or to tempt them to act out of an equally blind opposition to
                        its canons. One could never be entirely independent. In her confusion, she
                        longed to turn to some clear mind and sound conscience, not so much for
                        advice, as in order to test the effect upon such a mind and conscience of
                        the whole situation.
                    Professor Fortescue was the only person upon whose judgment and feeling she
                        could absolutely rely. What would he think of her? His impression would be
                        the best possible guide, for no one opposed more strongly than he did the
                        vulgar notion of proprietary rights between husband and wife, no one
                        asserted more absolutely the independence of the individual. Yet Hadria
                        could not imagine that he would be anything but profoundly sorry, if he knew
                        the recklessness of her feeling, and the nature of her sentiment for
                        Professor Theobald. But then he did not know how she stood; he did not know
                        that the blue hopeful distance of life had disappeared; that even the
                        middle-distance had been cut off, and that the sticks and stones and details
                        of a very speckly foreground now confronted her immovably. She would like to
                        learn how many women of her temperament, placed in her position, would stop
                        to enquire very closely into the right and wrong of the matter, when for a
                        moment, a little avenue seemed on the point of opening, misty and blue,
                        leading the eye to hidden perilous distances.
                    And then Professor Theobald had, after all, many fine qualities. He was
                        complex, and he had faults like the rest of us; but the more one knew him,
                        the more one felt his kindness of heart (how good he was to little Martha),
                            his readiness to help others, his
                        breadth of view and his sympathy. These were not common qualities. He was a
                        mall whom one could admire, despite certain traits that made one shrink a
                        little, at times. These moreover had disappeared of late. They were
                        accidental rather than intrinsic. It was a matter of daily observation that
                        people catch superficial modes of thought and speech, just as they catch
                        accent, or as women who have given no thought to the art of dress, sometimes
                        misrepresent themselves, by adopting, unmodified, whatever happens to be in
                        the fashion. Hadria had a wistful desire to be able to respect Professor
                        Theobald without reserve, to believe in him thoroughly, to think him noble
                        in calibre and fine in fibre. She had a vague idea that emphatic statement
                        could conduce to making all this true.
                    She had never met him alone since that day of the picnic, except for a few
                        chance minutes, when he had expressed over again, rather in tone than in
                        words, the sentiment before implied.
                    Algitha and Miss Du Prel were relieved to see that Hadria had, after all,
                        taken their advice. Without making any violent or obvious change in her
                        conduct, she had ceased to cause her friends anxiety. Something in her
                        manner had changed. Claude Moreton felt it instantly. He spoke of leaving
                        Craddock Place, but he lingered on. The house had begun to empty. Lady
                        Engleton wished to have some time to herself. She was painting a new
                        picture. But Professor Theobald remained. Joseph Fleming went away to stay
                        with his married sister. About this time Hubert had to go abroad to attend
                        to some business matters of a serious and tedious character, connected with
                        a law-suit in which he was professionally interested.
                    From some instinct which Hadria found difficult to account for, she avoided
                        meeting the Professor alone. Yet the whole interest of the day centred in
                        the prospect of seeing him. If by chance, she missed him, she felt flat and
                        dull, and found herself going over in her mind every detail of their last meeting. He had the art of making his
                        most trifling remark interesting. Even his comments on the weather had a
                        colour and quality of their own. Lady Engleton admired his lightness of
                        touch.
                    “Did you know that our amiable Professor shews his devotion to you, by
                        devotion to your protégée?” she asked one
                        day, when she met Hadria returning from the Priory with the two boys, whose
                        holidays were not yet over. “I saw him coming out of the child's cottage
                        this morning, and she shewed me the toy he had given her.”
                    “He is very fond of her, I know,” said Hadria.
                    “He gives her lots of things!” cried Jack, opening round and envious
                        eyes.
                    “How do you know, sir?” enquired Lady Engleton.
                    “Because Mary says so,” Jack returned.
                    Hadria was pleased at the kindness which the act seemed to indicate.
                    The doctor had ordered her to be in the open air as much as possible, and to
                        take a walk every day. Sometimes she would walk with the boys, sometimes
                        alone. In either case, the thought of Professor Theobald pursued her. She
                        often grew wearied with it, but it could not be banished. If she saw a
                        distant figure on the road, a little sick, excited stir of the heart,
                        betrayed her suspicion that it might be he. She could not sincerely wish
                        herself free from the strange infatuation, for the thought of life without
                        it, troublesome and fatiguing though it was, seemed inexpressibly dull. It
                        had taken the colour out of everything. It had altered the very face of
                        nature, in her eyes. Her hope had been to escape loneliness, but with this
                        preposterous secret, she was lonelier than she had ever been before. She
                        could no longer make a confidante of herself. She was afraid of her own
                        ridicule, her own blame, above all of finding herself confronted with some
                        accusation against the Professor, some overpowering reason for thinking
                        poorly of him. Whenever they met, she was in terror lest he should leave her
                            no alternative. She often opened
                        conversational channels by which he could escape his unknown peril, and she
                        would hold her breath till it was over. She dreaded the cool-headed,
                        ruthless critic, lurking within her own consciousness, who would hear of no
                        ingenious explanations of words or conduct. But she would not admit to this
                        dread—that would have been to admit everything. She had not the satisfaction
                        of openly thinking the matter out, for the suspicion that so profoundly
                        saddened her, must be kept scrupulously hidden. Hadria was filled with
                        dismay when she dared to glance at the future. No wonder Valeria had warned
                        her against playing with fire! Was it always like this when people fell in
                        love? What a ridiculous, uncomfortable, outrageous thing it was! How
                        destructive to common sense and sanity and everything that kept life running
                        on reasonable lines. A poor joke at best, and oh, how stale!
                    
                    “Shall I tell you your ruling passion, Mrs. Temperley?”
                    “If you can, Professor Theobald.”
                    Before them stretched a woodland glade. The broad fronds of the bracken made
                        bright patches of light where the sun caught them, and tall plants, such as
                        hemlock and wild parsley, stood out, almost white against the shade; the
                        flies and midges moving round them in the warmth. At some distance behind,
                        the sound of voices could be heard through the windings of the wood. There
                        were snatches of song and laughter.
                    “Your ruling passion is power over others.”
                    “It has been sadly thwarted then,” she answered, with a nervous laugh.
                    “Thwarted? Surely not. What more can you want than to touch the emotions of
                        every one who comes across your path? It is a splendid power, and ought to
                        be more satisfying to the possessor than a gift of any other kind.”
                    Professor Theobald waited for her reply, but she made none.
                    
                    He looked at her fixedly, eagerly. She could do nothing but walk on in
                        silence.
                    “Even an actor does not impress himself so directly upon his fellows as a
                        woman of—well, a woman like yourself. A painter, a writer, a musician, never
                        comes in touch at all with his public. We hear his name, we admire or we
                        decry his works, but the man or the woman who has toiled, and felt, and
                        lived, is unknown to us. He is lost in his work.”
                    Hadria gave a murmur of assent.
                    “But you, Mrs. Temperley, have a very different story to tell. It is
                            you, yourself, your personality, in all its many-sided
                        charm that we all bow to; it is you, not your achievements
                        that—that we love.”
                    Hadria cleared her throat; the words would not come. A rebellious little
                        nerve was twitching at her eye-lid. After all, what in heaven's name was she
                        to say? It was too foolish to pretend to misunderstand; for tone, look,
                        manner all told the same story; yet even now there was nothing absolutely
                        definite to reply to, and her cleverness of retort had deserted her.
                    “Ah! Mrs. Temperley—Hadria—” Professor Theobald had stopped short in the
                        path, and then Hadria made some drowning effort to resist the force that she
                        still feared. But it was in vain. She stood before him, paler even than
                        usual, with her head held high, but eye-lids that drooped and lips that
                        trembled. The movement of the leaves made faint quivering little shadows on
                        her white gown, and stirred delicately over the lace at her throat. The
                        emotion that possessed her, the mixture of joy and dismay and even terror,
                        passed across her face, in the moment's silence. The two figures stood
                        opposite to one another; Hadria drawing a little away, swayed slightly
                        backward, the Professor eagerly bending forward. He was on the point of
                        speaking, when there came floating through the wood, the sound of a woman's
                        voice singing. The voice was swiftly recognised by them both, and the
                        song.
                    
                    Hadria's eye-lids lifted for a second, and her breathing quickened.
                    
                        
                            “Oh, gather me the rose, the rose,
                            While yet in flower we find it;
                            For summer smiles, but summer goes,
                            And winter wails behind it.
                        
                        
                            “For with the dream foregone, foregone,
                            The deed foreborne for ever,
                            The worm regret will canker on,
                            And time will turn him never.”
                        
                    
                    Professor Theobald advanced a step. Hadria drew back.
                    
                        
                            “So well it were to love, my love,
                            And cheat of any laughter
                            The fate beneath us and above,
                            The dark before and after.
                        
                        
                            “The myrtle and the rose, the rose,
                            The sunshine and the swallow,
                            The dream that comes, the dream that goes,
                            The memories that follow!
                        
                    
                    The sweet cadence died away. A bird's note took up the dropped thread of
                        music. The Professor broke into passionate speech.
                    “My cause is pleaded in your own language, Hadria, Hadria; listen to it,
                        listen. You know what is in my heart; I can't apologize for feeling it, for
                        I have no choice; no man has where you are concerned, as you must have
                        discovered long ago. And I do not apologize for telling you the truth, you
                        know it does you no wrong. This is no news to you; you must have guessed it
                        from the first. Your coldness, your rebuffs, betrayed that you did. But, ah!
                        I have struggled long enough. I can keep silence no longer. I have thought
                        of late that your feeling for me had changed; a thousand things have made me
                        hope—good heavens, if you knew what that means to a man who had lost it! Ah!
                        speak—don't look like that, Hadria,—what is there in me that you always turn
                        from? Speak, speak!”
                    “Ah! life is horribly difficult!” she exclaimed. “I wish to heaven I had never budged from the traditions
                        in which I was educated—either that, or that everybody had discarded them. I
                        feel one way and think another.”
                    “Then you do love me, Hadria,” he cried.
                    Her instinct was to deny the truth, but there seemed to her something mean in
                        concealment, especially if she were to blame, especially if those who
                        respected tradition, and made it their guide and rule through thick and
                        thin, in the very teeth of reason, were right after all, as it seemed to
                        her, at this moment, that they were. If there were evil in this strange
                        passion, let her at least acknowledge her share in it. Let her not “assume a
                        virtue though she had it not.”
                    Professor Theobald was watching her face, as for a verdict of life and
                        death.
                    “Oh, answer me, answer me—Yes or no, yes or no?” She had raised her eyes for
                        a moment, about to speak; the words were stifled at their birth, for the
                        next instant she was in his arms. Again came the voice of the singer, nearer
                        this time. The song was hummed softly.
                    
                        
                            “Oh, gather me the rose, the rose,
                            While yet in flower we find it,
                            For summer smiles, but summer goes,
                            And winter waits behind it.”
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIII.
                    THE need for vigilance over that hidden distrust was more peremptory
                        now than ever. The confession once made, the die once cast, anything but
                        complete faith and respect became intolerable. Outwardly, affairs seemed to
                        run on very much as before. But Hadria could scarcely believe that she was
                        living in the same world. The new fact walked before her, everywhere. She
                        did not dare to examine it closely. She told herself that a great joy had
                        come to her, or rather that she had taken the joy in spite of everything and
                        everybody. She would order her affections exactly as she chose. If only she
                        could leave Craddock Dene! Hubert and her parents considered the opinion of
                        the public as of more importance than anything else in life; for her
                        mother's sake she was forced to acquiesce; otherwise there was absolutely no
                        reason why she and Hubert should live under the same roof. It was a mere
                        ceremony kept up on account of others. That had been acknowledged by him in
                        so many words. And a wretched, ridiculous, irksome ceremony it was for them
                        both.
                    Hadria refused now to meet Professor Theobald at the Cottage. His visits
                        there, which had been timed to meet her, must be paid at a different hour.
                        He remonstrated in vain. She shewed various other inconsistencies, as he
                        called them. He used to laugh affectionately at her “glimpses of
                        conscience,” but said he cared nothing for these trifles, since he had her
                        assurance that she loved him. How he had waited and longed for that! How
                        hopeless, how impossible it had seemed. He professed to have fallen in love
                        at first sight. He even declared that
                        Hadria had done the same, though in a different way, without knowing it. Her
                        mind had resisted and, for the time, kept her feelings in abeyance. He had
                        watched the struggle. Her heart, he rejoiced to believe, had responded to
                        him from the beginning. By dint of repeating this very often, he had half
                        convinced Hadria that it was so. She preferred to think that her feeling was
                        of the long-standing and resistless kind.
                    Sometimes she had intervals of reckless happiness, when all doubts were kept
                        at bay, and the condition of belief that she assiduously cultivated,
                        remained with her freely. She felt no secret tug at the tether. Professor
                        Theobald would then be at his best; grave, thoughtful, gentle, considerate,
                        responsive to every mood.
                    When they met at Craddock Place and elsewhere, Hadria suffered miseries of
                        anxiety. She was terrified lest he should do or say something in bad taste,
                        and that she would see her own impression confirmed on the faces of others.
                        She put it to herself that she was afraid people would not understand him as
                        she did. The history of his past life, as he had related it to her, appealed
                        overpoweringly to all that was womanly and protective in her nature. He was
                        emotional by temperament, but circumstance had doomed him to repression and
                        solitude. This call on her sympathy did more than anything to set Hadria's
                        mind at rest. She gave a vast sigh when that feeling of confidence became
                        confirmed. Life, then, need no longer be ridiculous! Hard and cruel it might
                        be, full of lost dreams, but at least there would be something in it that
                        was perfect. This new emotional centre offered the human summun bonum: release from oneself.
                    Hadria and the Professor met, one morning, in the gardens of the Priory.
                        Hadria had been strolling down the yew avenue, her thoughts full of him, as
                        usual. She reached the seat at the end where once Professor Fortescue had
                        found her—centuries ago, it seemed to her now. How different was
                            this meeting! Professor Theobald came by the path through
                        the thick shrubberies, behind the seat.
                        There was a small space of grass at the back. Here he stood, bending over
                        the seat, and though he was usually prudent, he did not even assure himself
                        that no one was in sight, before drawing Hadria's head gently back, and
                        stooping to kiss her on the cheek, while he imprisoned a hand in each of
                        his. She flushed, and looked hastily down the avenue.
                    “I wonder what our fate would be, if anyone had been there?” she said, with a
                        little shudder.
                    “No one was there, darling.” He stood leaning over the high back of the seat,
                        looking down at his companion, with a smile.
                    “Do you know,” he said, “I fear I shall have to go up to town to-morrow, for
                        the day.”
                    Hadria's face fell. She hated him to go away, even for a short time she could
                        not endure her own thoughts when his influence was withdrawn. His presence
                        wrapped her in a state of dream, a false peace which she courted.
                    “Oh no, no,” she cried, with a childish eagerness that was entirely unlike
                        her, “don't go.”
                    “Do you really care so very much?” he asked, with a deep flush of
                        pleasure.
                    “Of course I do, of course.” Her thoughts wandered off through strange
                        by-ways. At times, they would pass some black cavernous entrance to unknown
                        labyrinths, and the frightened thoughts would hurry by. Sometimes they would
                        be led decorously along a smooth highway, pacing quietly; sometimes they
                        would rise to the sunlight and spread their wings, and then perhaps take
                        sudden flight, like a flock of startled birds.
                    Yes, he needed sympathy, and faith, and love. He had never had anyone to
                        believe in him before. He had met with hardness and distrust all his life.
                        She would trust him. He had conquered, step by step, his inimical
                        conditions. He was lonely, unused to real affection. Let her try to make up
                        for what he had lost. Let her forget herself and her own little woes, in the
                        effort to fill his life with all that he had been forced to forego. (An impish thought danced before her for a
                        second—“Fine talk, but you know you love to be loved.”) If her love were
                        worth anything, that must be her impulse. Let her beware of considering her
                        own feelings, her own wishes and fears. If she loved, let it be fully and
                        freely, generously and without reserve. That or nothing. (“Probably it will
                        be nothing,” jeered the imp.) “Then what, in heaven's name, is
                        it that I feel?” the other self seemed to cry in desperation.
                    “An idea has struck me,” said the Professor, taking her hand and holding it
                        closely in his, “Why should you not come up to town, say on Friday—don't
                        start, dearest—it would be quite simple, and then for once in our lives we
                        should stand, as it were, alone in the world, you and I, without this
                        everlasting dread of curious eyes upon us. Alone among strangers—what bliss!
                        We could have a day on the river, or I could take you to see—well, anything
                        you liked—we should be free and happy. Think of it, Hadria! to be rid of
                        this incessant need for caution, for hypocrisy. We have but one life to
                        live; why not live it?”
                    “Why not live it, why not live it?” The words danced in her head, like
                        circles of little sprites carrying alluring wreaths of roses.
                    “Ah, we must be careful; there is much at stake,” she said.
                    He began to plead, eloquently and skilfully. He knew exactly what arguments
                        would tell best with her. The imps and the other selves engaged in a free
                        fight.
                    “No; I must not listen; it is too dangerous. If it were not for my mother, I
                        should not care for anything, but as it is, I must risk nothing. I have
                        already risked too much.”
                    “There would be no danger,” he argued. “Trust to me. I have something to lose
                        too. It is of no use to bring the whole dead stupid weight of the world on
                        our heads. There is no sense in lying down under a heap of rubbish, to be
                        crushed. Let us go our way and leave other people to go theirs.”
                    
                    “Easier said than done.”
                    “Oh no; the world must be treated as one would treat a maniac who brandished
                        a razor in one's face. Direct defiance argues folly worse than his.”
                    “Of course, but all this subterfuge and deceit is hateful.”
                    “Not if one considers the facts of the case. The maniac-world insists upon
                        uniformity and obedience, especially in that department of life where
                        uniformity is impossible. You don't suppose that it is ever
                            really attained by any human being who deserves the name?
                        Never! We all wear the livery of our master and live our own lives not the
                        less.”
                    “Ah, I doubt that,” said Hadria. “I think the livery affects us all, right
                        through to the bones and marrow. What young clergyman was it who told me
                        that as soon as he put on his canonicals, he felt a different man, mind,
                        heart, and personality?”
                    “Well, your livery has never made you, Hadria, and that is all I
                        care for.”
                    “Indeed, I am not so sure.”
                    “It has not turned you out a Mrs. Jordan or a Mrs. Walker, for instance.”
                    “To the great regret of my well-wishers.”
                    “To the great regret of your inferiors. There is nothing that people regret
                        so bitterly as superiority to themselves.”
                    Hadria laughed.
                    “I am always afraid of the gratifying argument based on the assumption of
                        superiority; one is apt to be brought down a peg, if ever one indulges in
                        it.”
                    “I can't see that much vanity is implied in claiming superiority to the
                        common idiot of commerce,” said the Professor, with a shrug.
                    “He is in the family,” Hadria reminded him.
                    “The human family; yes, confound him!” They laughed, and the Professor, after
                        a pause, continued his pleading.
                    “It only needs a little courage, Hadria. My love, my dear one, don't shake
                        your head.”
                    
                    He came forward and sat down on the seat beside her, bending towards her
                        persuasively.
                    “Promise me to come to town on Friday, Hadria—promise me, dearest.”
                    “But if—oh, how I hate all the duplicity that this involves! It creates
                        wretched situations, whichever way one turns. I never realized into what a
                        labyrinth it would lead one. I should like to speak out and be honest about
                        it.”
                    “And your mother?”
                    “Oh, I know of course—” Hadria set her teeth. “It drives me mad, all
                        this!”
                    “Oh, Hadria! And you don't count me then?”
                    “Obviously I count you. But one's whole life becomes a lie.”
                    “That is surely schoolgirl's reasoning. Strange that you should be guilty of
                        it! Is one's life a lie because one makes so bold as to keep one's own
                        counsel? Must one take the world into one's confidence, or stand condemned
                        as a liar? Oh, Hadria, this is childish!”
                    “Yes, I am getting weak-minded, I know,” she said feverishly. “I resent being
                        forced to resort to this sort of thing when I am doing nothing wrong,
                        according to my own belief. Why should I be forced to behave as if I
                            were sinning against my conscience?”
                    “So you may say; that is your grievance, not your fault. But, after all,
                        compromise is necessary in everything, and the best way is to
                        make the compromise lightly and with a shrug of the shoulders, and then you
                        find that life becomes fairly manageable and often extremely pleasant.”
                    “Yes, I suppose you are right.” Hadria was picking the petals off a buttercup
                        one by one, and when she had destroyed one golden corolla, she attacked
                        another.
                    “Fate is ironical!” she exclaimed. “Never in my life did I feel
                        more essentially frank and open-hearted than I feel now.”
                    The Professor laughed.
                    “My impulse is to indulge in that sort of bluff, boisterous honesty which forms so charming a feature of our
                        national character. Is it not disastrous?”
                    “It is a little inopportune,” Theobald admitted with a
                        chuckle.
                    “Oh, it is no laughing matter! It amounts to a monomania. I long to take Mrs.
                        Walker aside and say ‘Hi! look here, Mrs. Walker, I just want to mention to
                        you—’ and so on; and Mrs. Jordan inspires me with a still more fatal impulse
                        of frankness. If only for the fun of the thing, I long to do it.”
                    “You are quite mad, Hadria!” exclaimed the Professor, laughing.
                    “Oh; no,” she said, “only bewildered. I want desperately to be bluff and
                        outspoken, but I suppose I must dissemble. I long painfully to be like
                        ‘truthful James,’ but I must follow in the footsteps of the sneaky little
                        boy who came to a bad end because he told a lie. The question is: Shall my
                        mother be sacrificed to this passionate love of truth?”
                    “Or shall I?” asked the Professor. “You seem to forget me. You frighten me,
                        Hadria. To indulge in frankness just now, means to throw me over, and if you
                        did that, I don't know how I should be able to stand it. I should cut my
                        throat.”
                    Hadria buried her face in her hands, as if to shut out distracting sights and
                        sounds, so that she might think more clearly.
                    It seemed, at that moment, as if cutting one's throat would be the only way
                        out of the growing difficulty.
                    How could it go on? And yet, how could she give him up? (The imp
                        gave a fiendish chuckle.) It would be so unfair, so cruel, and what would
                        life be without him? (“Moral development impossible!” cried the imp, with a
                        yell of laughter.) It would be so mean to go back now—(“Shocking!” exclaimed
                        the imp.) Assuming that she ought never to have allowed this thing to happen
                        (“Oh, fie!”) because she bore another man's name (not being permitted to
                        retain her own), ought she to throw this
                        man over, on second and (per assumption) better thoughts, or did the false
                        step oblige her to continue in the path she had entered?
                    “I seem to have got myself into one of those situations where there is
                            no right,” she exclaimed.
                    “You forget your own words: A woman in relation to society is in the position
                        of a captive; she may justly evade the prison rules, if she can.”
                    “So she may; only I want so desperately to wrench away the bars instead of
                        evading the rules.”
                    “Try to remember that you—” The Professor stopped abruptly and stood
                        listening. They looked at one another. Hadria was deadly white. A step was
                        advancing along the winding path through the bushes behind them: a half
                        over-grown path, that led from a small door in the wall that ran round the
                        park. It was the nearest route from the station to the house, and a short
                        cut could be taken this way through the garden, to Craddock Place.
                    “It's all right,” the Professor said in a low voice; “we were saying nothing
                        compromising.”
                    The step drew nearer.
                    “Some visitor to Craddock Place probably, who has come down by the 4.20 from
                        town.”
                    “Professor Fortescue!”
                    Hadria had sprung up, and was standing, with flushed cheeks, beside her
                        calmer companion.
                    Professor Fortescue's voice broke the momentary silence. He gave a warm smile
                        of pleasure and came forward with out-stretched hand.
                    “The hoped-for instant has come sooner than I thought,” he cried
                        genially.
                    Hadria was shocked to see him looking very ill. He said that his doctor had
                        bullied him, at last, into deciding to go south. His arrangements for
                        departure had been rather hastily made, and he had telegraphed this morning,
                        to Craddock Place, to announce his coming. His luggage was following in a hand-cart, and he was taking the
                        short cut through the Priory gardens. He had come to say good-bye to them
                        all. Miss Du Prel, he added, had already made up her mind to go abroad, and
                        he hoped to come across her somewhere in Italy. She had given him all news.
                        He looked anxiously at Hadria. The flush had left her face now, and the
                        altered lines were but too obvious.
                    “You ought to have change too,” he said, “you are not looking well.”
                    She laughed nervously. “Oh, I am all right.”
                    “Let's sit down a moment, if you were not discussing anything very
                        important—”
                    “Indeed, we were, my dear Fortescue,” said Professor Theobald, drawing his
                        colleague on to the seat, “and your clear head would throw much light on the
                        philosophy of the question.”
                    “Oh, a question of abstract philosophy,” said Professor Fortescue. “Are you
                            disagreeing?”
                    “Not exactly. The question that turned up, in the course of discussion, was
                        this: If a man stands in a position which is itself the result of an
                        aggression upon his liberty and his human rights, is he in honour bound to
                        abide by the laws which are laid down to coerce him?”
                    “Obviously not,” replied Professor Fortescue.
                    “Is he morally justified in using every means he can lay hold of to overcome
                        the peculiar difficulties under which he has been tyrannously placed?”
                    “Not merely justified, but I should say he was a poor fool if he refrained
                        from doing so.”
                    “That is exactly what I say.”
                    “Surely Mrs. Temperley does not demur?”
                    “No; I quite agree as to the right. I only say that the means
                        which the situation may make necessary are sometimes very hateful.”
                    “Ah, that is among the cruelest of the victim's wrongs,” said Professor
                        Fortescue. “He is reduced to employ artifices that he would despise, were he a free agent. Take
                        a crude instance: a man is overpowered by a band of brigands. Surely he is
                        justified in deceiving those gentlemen of the road, and in telling and
                        acting lies without scruple.”
                    “The parallel is exact,” said Theobald, with a triumphant glance at
                        Hadria.
                    “Honour departs where force comes in. No man is bound in honour to his
                        captor, though his captor will naturally try to persuade his prisoner to
                        regard himself as so bound. And few would be our oppressions, if that
                        persuasion did not generally succeed!”
                    “The relations of women to society for instance—” began Theobald.
                    “Ah, exactly. The success of that device may be said to constitute the
                        history of womanhood. Take my brigand instance and write it large, and you
                        have the whole case in a nutshell.”
                    “Then you would recommend rank rebellion, either by force or artifice,
                        according as circumstances might require?” asked Hadria.
                    Professor Fortescue looked round at her, half anxiously, half
                        enquiringly.
                    “There are perils, remember,” he warned. “The woman is, by our assumption,
                        the brigand's captive. If she offends her brigand, he has hideous
                        punishments to inflict. He can subject her to pain and indignity at his good
                        pleasure. Torture and mutilation, metaphorically speaking, are possible to
                        him. How could one deliberately counsel her to risk all that?”
                    There was a long silence.
                    Hadria had been growing more and more restless since the arrival of the
                        new-comer. She took no further part in the conversation. She was struggling
                        to avoid making comparisons between her two companions. The contrast was
                        startling. Every cadence of their voices, every gesture, proclaimed the
                        radical difference of nature and calibre.
                    Hadria rose abruptly. She looked pale and perturbed.
                    
                    “Don't you think we have sat here long enough?” she asked.
                    They both looked a little surprised, but they acquiesced at once. The three
                        walked together down the yew avenue, and out across the lawn. Professor
                        Fortescue recalled their past meetings among these serene retreats, and
                        wished they could come over again.
                    “Nothing ever does come over again,” said Hadria.
                    Theobald glanced at her, meaningly.
                    “Look here, my dear fellow,” he said, grasping Professor Fortescue by the
                        arm, and bending confidentially towards him, “I should like those meetings
                        to repeat themselves ad infinitum. I have
                        made up my mind at last. I want to take the Priory.”
                    Hadria turned deadly pale, and stumbled slightly.
                    “Well, take it by all means. I should be only too glad to let it to a tenant
                        who would look after the old place.”
                    “We must talk it over,” said Theobald.
                    “That won't take long, I fancy. We talked it over once before, you remember,
                        and then you suddenly changed your mind.”
                    “Yes; but my mind is steady now. The Priory is the place of all others that I
                        should like to pass my days in.”
                    “Well, I think you are wise, Theobald. The place has great charm, and you
                        have friends here.”
                    “Yes, indeed!” exclaimed Theobald.
                    Professor Fortescue looked vaguely round, as if expecting Hadria to express
                        some neighbourly sentiment, but she said nothing. He noticed how very ill
                        she was looking.
                    “Are you feeling the heat too severe?” he asked in concern. “Shall we take a
                        rest under these trees?”
                    But Hadria preferred to go on and rest at home. She asked when Professor
                        Fortescue was coming to see them at the Red House, but her tone was less
                        open and warm than usual, in addressing him. He said that to-morrow he would
                        walk over in the afternoon, if he might. Hadria would not allow her
                        companions to come out of their way to accompany her home. At the Priory gate—where the griffins
                        were grinning as derisively as ever at the ridiculous ways of men—they took
                        their respective roads.
                    Some domestic catastrophe had happened at the Red House. The cook had called
                        Mary “names,” and Mary declared she must leave. Hadria shrugged her
                        shoulders.
                    “Oh, well then, I suppose you must,” she said wearily, and retired to her
                        room, in a mood to be cynically amused at the tragedies that the human being
                        manufactures for himself, lest he should not find the tragedies of birth and
                        death and parting, and the solitude of the spirit, sufficient to occupy him
                        during his little pilgrimage. She sat by the open window that looked out
                        over the familiar fields, and the garden that was gay with summer flowers.
                        The red roof of the Priory could just be caught through the trees of the
                        park. She wished the little pilgrimage were over. A common enough wish, she
                        commented, but surely not unreasonable.
                    The picture of those two men came back to her, in spite of every effort to
                        banish it. Professor Fortescue had affected her as if he had brought with
                        him a new atmosphere, and disastrous was the result. It seemed as if
                        Professor Theobald had suddenly become a stranger to her, whom she
                        criticised, whose commonness of fibre, ah me! whose coarseness, she saw as
                        she might have seen it in some casual acquaintance. And yet she had loved
                        this man, she had allowed him to passionately profess love for her. His
                        companionship, in the deepest sense, had been chosen by her for life. To sit
                        by and listen to that conversation, feeling every moment how utterly he and
                        she were, after all, strangers to one another, how completely unbroken was
                        the solitude that she had craved to dispel—that had been horrible. What had
                        lain at the root of her conduct? How had she deceived herself? Was it not
                        for the sake of mere excitement, distraction? Was it not the sensuous side
                        of her nature that had been touched, while the rest had been posing in the
                        foreground? But no, that was only partly true. There had been more in it
                        than that; very much more, or she could
                        not have deceived herself so completely. It was this craving to fill the
                        place of her lost art,—but oh, what morbid nonsense it had all been! Why,
                        for the first time in her life, did she feel ashamed to meet Professor
                        Fortescue? Obviously, it was not because she thought he would disapprove of
                        her breaking the social law. It was because she had fallen below her own
                        standard, because she had been hypocritical with herself, played herself
                        false, and acted contemptibly, hatefully! Professor Fortescue's mere
                        presence had hunted out the truth from its hiding-place. He had made further
                        self-sophistication impossible. She buried her face in her hands, in an
                        agony of shame. She had known all along, that this had not been a profound
                        and whole-hearted sentiment. She had known all along, of what a poor
                        feverish nature it was; yet she had chosen to persuade herself that it was
                        all, or nearly all, that she had dreamed of a perfect human relationship.
                        She had tried to arrange facts in such a light as to simulate that idea. It
                        was so paltry, so contemptible. Why could she not at least have been honest
                        with herself, and owned to the nature of the infatuation? That, at any rate,
                        would have been straightforward. Her self-scorn made the colour surge into
                        her cheeks and burn painfully over neck and brow. “How little one knows
                        oneself. Here am I, who rebel against the beliefs of others, sinning against
                        my own. Here am I, who turn up my nose at the popular gods, deriding my own
                        private and particular gods in their very temples! That I have done, and
                        heaven alone knows where I should have stopped in the wild work, if this had
                        not happened. Professor Fortescue has no need to speak. His gentleness, his
                        charity, are as rods to scourge one!”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIV.
                    WHEN Professor Fortescue called at the Red House, he found that the
                        blinds, in the drawing-room, were all half down. Hadria held the
                        conversation to the subject of his plans. He knew her well enough to read
                        the meaning of that quiet tone, with a subtle cadence in it, just at the end
                        of a phrase, that went to his heart. To him it testified to an unspeakable
                        regret.
                    It was difficult to define the change in her manner, but it conveyed to the
                        visitor the impression that she had lost belief in herself, or in some one;
                        that she had received a severe shock, and knew no longer what to trust or
                        how to steer. She seemed to speak across some vast spiritual distance, an
                        effect not produced by reserve or coldness, but by a wistful, acquiescent,
                        subdued quality, expressive of uncertainty, of disorder in her conceptions
                        of things.
                    “How tempting those two easy-chairs look, under the old tree on your lawn,”
                        said the Professor. “Wouldn't it be pleasant to go out?”
                    Hadria hesitated for a second, and then rose. “Certainly; we will have tea
                        there.”
                    When they were seated under the shade taking their tea, with the canopy of
                        walnut leaves above their heads, the Professor saw that Hadria shewed signs
                        of serious trouble. The haggard lines, the marks of suffering, were not to
                        be hidden in the clear light of the summer afternoon. He insensibly shifted
                        his chair so as not to have to gaze at her when he spoke. That seemed to be
                        a relief to her.
                    “Valeria is here till the day after to-morrow,” she said. “She has gone for a walk, and has probably forgotten
                        the tea-hour; but I hope you will see her.”
                    “I want to find out what her plans are. It would be pleasant to come across
                        one another abroad. I wish you were coming too.”
                    “Ah, so do I.”
                    “I suppose it's impossible.”
                    “Absolutely.”
                    “For the mind, there is no tonic like travel,” he said.
                    “It must be a sovereign cure for egoism.”
                    “If anything will cure that disease.” Her face saddened.
                    “You believe it is quite incurable?”
                    “If it is constitutional.”
                    “Don't you think that sometimes people grow egoistic through having to fight
                        incessantly for existence—I mean for individual existence?”
                    “It certainly is the instinct of moral self-preservation. It corresponds to
                        the raised arm when a blow threatens.”
                    “One has the choice between egoism and extinction.”
                    “It almost amounts to that. Perhaps, after long experience and much
                        sufferings the individuality may become secure, and the armour no longer
                        necessary, but this is a bitter process. Most people become extinct, and
                        then congratulate themselves on self-conquest.”
                    “Yes, I suppose so,” said Hadria musingly. “How dangerous it is to
                        congratulate oneself on anything! One never is so near to folly as
                        then.”
                    The Professor threw some crumbs to a chaffinch, which had flown down within a
                        few yards of the tea-table.
                    “I think you are disposed, at present, to criticise yourself too
                        mercilessly,” he said in a tone that had drawn forth many a confidence. It
                        was not to be resisted.
                    “No; that would be difficult.”
                    “Your conscience may accuse you severely, but who of us escapes such
                        accusations? Be a little charitable with yourself, as you would with others.
                        Life, you know, is not such an easy game
                        to play. Beginners must make wrong moves now and then.”
                    There was a long pause.
                    “It sounds so mild when you put it like that. But I am not a beginner. I am
                        quite a veteran, yet I am not seasoned. My impulses are more imperious, more
                        blinding than I had the least idea of.” (The words hastened on.) “Life comes
                        and pulls one by the sleeve; stirs, prompts, bewilders, tempts in a thousand
                        ways; emotion rises in whirlwinds—and one is confused, and reels and gropes
                        and stumbles, and then some cruel, clear day one awakes to find the print of
                        intoxicated footsteps in the precincts of the sanctuary, and recognises
                        oneself as desecrator.”
                    The Professor leant forward in his low chair. The chaffinch gave a light
                        chirp, as if to recall him to his duty. Hadria performed it for him. The
                        chaffinch flew off with the booty.
                    “There is no suffering so horrible as that which involves remorse or
                        self-contempt,” he said, and his voice trembled. “To have to settle down to
                        look upon some part of one's action, of one's moral self, with shame or
                        scorn, is almost intolerable.”
                    “Quite intolerable!”
                    “We will not extend to ourselves the forbearance due to erring humanity. This
                        puts us too much on a level with the rest—is that not often the reason of
                        our harsh self-judgments?”
                    “Oh, I have no doubt there is something mean and conceited at the bottom of
                        it!” exclaimed Hadria.
                    There was a step on the lawn behind them.
                    The Professor sprang up. He went to meet Valeria and they came to the table
                        together, talking. Valeria's eyes were bright and her manner animated. Yes,
                        she was going abroad. It would be delightful to meet somewhere, if chance
                        favoured them. She thought of Italy. And at that magic name, they fell into
                        reminiscences of former journeyings; they talked of towns and temples and
                        palaces, of art, of sunshine; and Hadria listened silently.
                    Once, in her girlhood, when she was scarcely sixteen she had gone with her parents and Algitha for a
                        tour in Italy. It was a short but vivid experience which had tinged her
                        life, leaving a memory and a longing that never died. The movement of
                        travel, the sense of change and richness offered to eye and mind, remained
                        with her always; the vision of a strange, tumultuous, beautiful world; of
                        exquisite Italian cities, of forests and seas; of classic plains and
                        snow-capped mountains; of treasures of art—the eternal evidence of man's
                        aloofness, on one side of him, from the savage element in nature—and
                        glimpses of cathedral domes and palace walls; and villages clinging like
                        living things to the hill-sides, or dreaming away their drowsy days in some
                        sunny valley. And then the mystery that every work of man enshrines; the
                        life, the thought, the need that it embodies, and the passionate histories
                        that it hides! It was as if the sum and circumstance of life had mirrored
                        itself in the memory, once and for all. The South lured her with its
                        languor, its colour, its hot sun, and its splendid memories. It was
                        exquisite pleasure and exquisite pain to listen to the anticipations of
                        these two, who were able to wander as they would.
                    “Siena?” said Valeria with a sigh, “I used to know Siena when I was young and
                        happy. That was where I made the fatal mistake in my life. It is all a thing
                        of the past now. I might have married a good and brilliantly intellectual
                        man, whom I could respect and warmly admire; for whom I had every feeling
                        but the one that we romantic women think so essential, and that people
                        assure us is the first to depart.”
                    “You regret that you held fast to your own standard?” said Hadria.
                    “I regret that I could not see the wisdom of taking the good that was offered
                        to me, since I could not have that which I wished. Now I have neither.”
                    “How do you know you would have found the other good really
                        satisfactory!”
                    “I believe in the normal,” said Valeria, “having devoted my existence to an
                        experiment of the abnormal.”
                    
                    “I don't think what we call the normal is, by any means, so safe as it
                        sounds, for civilized women at any rate,” observed the Professor.
                    Valeria shook her head, and remained silent. But her face expressed the sad
                        thoughts left unsaid. In youth, it was all very well. One had the whole
                        world before one, life to explore, one's powers to test. But later on, when
                        all that seemed to promise fades away, when the dreams drift out of sight,
                        and strenuous efforts repeated and repeated, are beaten down by the eternal
                        obstacles; when the heart is wearied by delay, disappointment, infruition,
                        vain toil, then this once intoxicating world becomes a place of desolation
                        to the woman who has rebelled against the common lot. And all the old
                        instincts awake, to haunt and torment; to demand that which reason has
                        learnt to deny or to scorn; to burden their victims with the cruel heritage
                        of the past; to whisper regrets and longings, and sometimes to stir to a
                        conflict and desperation that end in madness.
                    “I believe I should have been happier, if I had married some commonplace
                        worthy in early life, and been the mother of ten children,” Valeria
                        observed, aloud.
                    Hadria laughed. “By this time, you or the ten children would have come to
                        some tragic end. I don't know which I would pity most.”
                    “I don't see why I shouldn't be able to do what other women have done,” cried
                        Valeria.
                    “A good deal more. But think, Valeria, of ten particular constitutions to
                        grapple with, ten sets of garments to provide, ten series of ailments to
                        combat, ten—no, let me see, two hundred and forty teeth to take to the
                        dentist, not to mention characters and consciences in all their developments
                        and phases, rising, on this appalling decimal system of yours, to regions of
                        arithmetic far beyond my range.”
                    “You exaggerate preposterously!” cried Valeria, half annoyed, although she
                        laughed. She had the instinctive human desire to assert her ability in the
                        direction where of all others it was lacking.
                    
                    “And think of the uprush of impulse, good and evil; the stirring of the
                        thought, the movements of longing and wonder, and then all the greedy
                        selfishness of youth, with its untamed vigours and its superb hopes. What
                        help does a child get from its parents, in the midst of this tumult, out of
                        which silently, the future man or woman emerges—and grows, remember,
                        according to the manner in which the world meets these generous or these
                        baser movements of the soul?”
                    “You would frighten anyone from parenthood!” cried Valeria,
                        discontentedly.
                    “Admit at least, that eight, or even seven, would have satisfied you.”
                    “Well, I don't mind foregoing the last three or four,” said Valeria. “But
                        seriously, I think that a home and so forth, is the best that life has to
                        offer to us women. It is, perhaps, not asking much, but I believe if one
                        goes further, one fares worse.”
                    “We all think the toothache would be so much more bearable, if it were only
                        in the other tooth,” said the Professor.
                    A silence fell upon the three. Their thoughts were evidently busy.
                    “I feel sorry,” the Professor said at last, “that this should be your
                        testimony. It has always seemed to me ridiculous that a woman could not
                        gratify her domestic sentiments, without being claimed by them, body and
                        soul. But I hoped that our more developed women would show us that they
                        could make a full and useful and interesting life for themselves, even if
                        that particular side of existence were denied them. I thought they might
                        forego it for the sake of other things.”
                    “Not without regretting it.”
                    “Yet I have met women who held different opinions.”
                    “Probably rather inexperienced women,” said Valeria.
                    “Young women, but—”
                    “Ah, young women. What do they know? The element of real horror
                        in a woman's life does not betray itself, until the moment when the sense of
                        age approaches. Then, and not till then, she knows how much mere superficial
                        and transitory attractions have had to do
                        with making her life liveable and interesting. Then, and not till then, she
                        realizes that she has unconsciously held the position of adventuress in
                        society, getting what she could out of it, by means of personal charm; never
                        resting on established right, for she has none. As a wife, she acquires a
                        sort of reflected right. One must respect her over whom Mr. So-and-So has
                        rights of property. Well, is it not wise to take what one can get—the little
                        glory of being the property of Mr. So-and-So? I have scorned this
                        opportunism all my life, and now I regret having scorned it. And I think, if
                        you could get women to be sincere, they would tell you the same tale.”
                    “And what do you think of the scheme of life, which almost forces upon our
                        finest women, or tempts them to practise, this sort of opportunism?”
                    “I think it is simply savage,” answered Valeria.
                    Again a silence fell on the little group. The spoken words seemed to call up
                        a host of words unspoken. There was to Hadria, a personal as well as a
                        general significance in each sentence, that made her listen breathlessly for
                        the next.
                    “How would you define a good woman?” she asked.
                    “Precisely as I would define a good man,” replied the Professor.
                    “Oh, I think we ask more of the woman,” said Valeria.
                    “We do indeed!” cried Hadria, with a laugh.
                    “One may find people with a fussy conscience, a nervous fear of wrong-doing,
                        who are without intelligence and imagination, but you never meet the
                        noblest, and serenest, and largest examples of goodness without these
                        attributes,” said the Professor.
                    “This is not the current view of goodness in women,” said Hadria.
                    “Naturally. The less intelligence and imagination the better, if our current
                        morality is to hold its own. We want our women to accept its dogmas without
                        question. We tell them how to be good, and if they don't choose to be good
                        in that way, we call them bad. Nothing could be simpler.”
                    
                    “I believe,” said Hadria, “that the women who are called good have much to do
                        with the making of those that are called bad. The two kinds are substance
                        and shadow. We shall never get out of the difficulty till they frankly shake
                        hands, and admit that they are all playing the same game.”
                    “Oh, they will never do that,” exclaimed Valeria, laughing and shaking her
                        head. “What madness!”
                    “Why not? The thing is so obvious. They are like the two sides of a piece of
                        embroidery: one all smooth and fair, the other rough and ugly, showing the
                        tag ends and the fastenings. But since the embroidery is insisted on, I
                        can't see that it is of any moral consequence on which side of the canvas
                        one happens to be.”
                    “It is chiefly a matter of luck,” said the Professor.
                    A long shadow fell across Hadria as she spoke, blotting out the little
                        flicker of the sunlight that shone through the stirring leaves. Professor
                        Theobald had crept up softly across the lawn, and as the chairs were turned
                        towards the flower-borders, he had approached unobserved.
                    Hadria gave so violent a start when she heard his voice, that Professor
                        Fortescue looked at her anxiously. He thought her nerves must be seriously
                        out of order. The feverish manner of her greeting to the new-comer,
                        confirmed his fear. Professor Theobald apologized for intruding. He had
                        given up his intention of going up to town to-day. He meant to put it off
                        till next week. He could not miss Fortescue's visit. One could not tell when
                        one might see him again.
                    And Professor Theobald led the conversation airily on; talking fluently, and
                        at times brilliantly, but always with that indefinable touch of something
                        ignoble, something coarse, that now filled Hadria with unspeakable dismay.
                        She was terrified lest the other two should go, and he should remain. And
                        yet she ought to speak frankly to him. His conversation was full of little
                        under-meanings, intended for her only to understand; his look, his manner to
                        her made her actually hate him. Yet she felt the utter inconsequence and
                        injustice of her attitude.
                        He had not changed. There was nothing new in him. The change
                        was in herself. Professor Fortescue had awakened her. But, of course, he was
                        one in ten thousand. It was not fair to make the comparison by which
                        Professor Theobald suffered so pitiably. At that moment, as if Fate had
                        intended to prove to her how badly Professor Theobald really stood
                        comparison with any thoroughly well-bred man, even if infinitely beneath him
                        intellectually, Joseph Fleming happened to call. He was his old self again,
                        simple, friendly, contented. Theobald was in one of his self-satisfied
                        moods. Perhaps he enjoyed the triumph of his position in regard to Hadria.
                        At any rate, he seemed to pounce on the new-comer as a foil to his own
                        brilliancy. Joseph had no talent to oppose to it, but he had a simple
                        dignity, the offspring of a kind and generous nature, which made Professor
                        Theobald's conduct towards him appear contemptible. Professor Fortescue
                        shifted uncomfortably in his chair. Hadria tried to change the topic; the
                        flush deepening in her cheeks. Professor Fortescue attempted to come to her
                        aid. Joseph Fleming laughed good-naturedly.
                    They sat late into the evening. Theobald could not find an excuse to outstay
                        his colleague, since they were both guests at the same house.
                    “I must see you alone some time to-morrow,” he managed to whisper. There-was
                        no time for a reply.
                    “I shall go and rest before dinner,” said Valeria.
                    Hadria went into the house by the open window of the drawing-room. She sank
                        back on the sofa; a blackness came before her eyes.
                    “No, no, I won't, I won't. Let me learn not to let things overpower me, in
                        future.”
                    When Valeria entered, dressed for dinner, she found Hadria, deadly pale,
                        standing against the sofa, whose arm she was grasping with both hands, as if
                        for dear life. Valeria rushed forward.
                    “Good heavens, Hadria! are you going to faint?”
                    “No,” said Hadria, “I am not going to faint, if there is such a thing as
                        human will.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLV.
                    THE morning had passed as usual, but household arrangements at the
                        Cottage had required much adjustment, one of the maids being ill. She had
                        been sent away for a rest, and the difficulty was to find another. Mary went
                        from the Red House as substitute, in the mean time, and the Red House became
                        disorganised.
                    “You look distracted with these little worries, Hadria. I should have said
                        that some desperate crisis was hanging over you, instead of merely a
                        domestic disturbance.” Valeria was established on the lawn, with a book.
                    “I am going to seek serenity in the churchyard,” explained Hadria.
                    “But I thought Professor Theobald said something about calling.”
                    “I leave you to entertain him, if he comes,” Hadria returned, and hastened
                        away. She stopped at Martha's cottage for the child. Ah! What would become
                        of her if it were not for Martha? The two sauntered together along the
                        Craddock road.
                    All night long, Hadria had been trying to decide when and how to speak to
                        Professor Theobald. Should she send for him? Should she write to him? Should
                        she trust to chance for an opportunity of speaking? But, no, she could not
                        endure to see him again in the presence of others, before she had spoken!
                        Yesterday's experience had been too terrible. She had brought pencil and
                        paper with her, in order to be able to write to him, if she decided on that
                        course. There were plenty of retired nooks under the shade of the yew-trees
                            in the churchyard, where one could
                        write. The thick hedges made it perfectly secluded, and at this hour, it was
                        always solitary. Little Martha was gathering wild-flowers in the hedges. She
                        used to pluck them to lay on her mother's grave. She had but a vague idea of
                        that unknown mother, but Hadria had tried to make the dead woman live again,
                        in the child's mind, as a gentle and tender image. The little offering was
                        made each time that they took their walk in the direction of Craddock. The
                        grave looked fresh and sweet in the summer sunshine, with the ivy creeping
                        up the tomb-stone and half obliterating the name. A rose-tree that Hadria
                        and Martha had planted together, was laden with rich red blooms.
                    The two figures stood, hand in hand, by the grave. The child stooped to place
                        her little tribute of flowers at the head of the green mound. Neither of
                        them noticed a tall figure at the wicket gate. He stood outside, looking up
                        the path, absolutely motionless. Martha let go Hadria's hand, and ran off
                        after a gorgeous butterfly that had fluttered over the headstone: a symbol
                        of the soul; fragile, beautiful, helpless thing that any rough hand may
                        crush and ruin. Hadria turned to watch the graceful, joyous movement of the
                        child, and her delight in the beauty of the rich brown wings, with their
                        enamelled spots of sapphire.
                    “Hadria!”
                    She gave a little gasping cry, and turned sharply. Professor Theobald looked
                        at her with an intent, triumphant expression. She stood before him, for the
                        moment, as if paralysed. It was by no means the first time that this look
                        had crossed his face, but she had been blind, and had not fully understood
                        it. He interpreted her cry and her paleness, as signs of the fullness of his
                        power over her. This pleased him immeasurably. His self-love basked and
                        purred. He felt that his moment of triumph had come. Contrasting this
                        meeting with the last occasion when they had stood together beside this
                        grave, had he not ground for self-applause? He remembered so well that
                        unpleasant episode. It was Hadria who
                        stood then in the more powerful position. He had actually
                        feared to meet her eye. He remembered how bitterly she had spoken, of her
                        passion for revenge, of the relentless feud between man and woman. They had
                        discussed the question of vengeance; he had pointed out its futility, and
                        Hadria had set her teeth and desired it none the less. Lady Engleton had
                        reminded her of a woman's helplessness if she places herself in opposition
                        to a man, for whom all things are ordered in the society that he governs;
                        her only chance of striking a telling blow being through his passions. If he
                        were in love with her, then there might be some hope of making
                        him wince. And Hadria, with a fierce swiftness had accepted the condition,
                        with a mixture of confidence in her own power of rousing emotion, if she
                        willed, and of scorn for the creature who could be appealed to through his
                        passions, but not through his sense of justice. That she might herself be in
                        that vulnerable condition, had not appeared to strike her as possible. It
                        was a challenge that he could not but accept. She attracted him
                        irresistibly. From the first moment of meeting, he had felt her power, and
                        recognized, at the same time, the strange spirit of enmity that she seemed
                        to feel towards him, and to arouse in him against her. He felt the savage in
                        him awake, the desire of mere conquest. Long had he waited and watched, and
                        at last he had seen her flush and tremble at his approach; and as if to make
                        his victory more complete and insolent, it was at this grave
                        that she was to confess herself ready to lose the world for his sake! Yes;
                        and she should understand the position of affairs to the full, and consent
                        nevertheless!
                    Her adoption of the child had added to his triumph. He could not think of it
                        without a sense of something humourous in the relation of events. If ever
                        Fate was ironical, this was the occasion! He felt so sure of Hadria to-day,
                        that he was swayed by an overpowering temptation to reveal to her the almost
                        comic situation. It appealed to his sense of the absurd, and to the savagery
                        that lurked, like a beast of prey, at the
                        foundation of his nature. Her evident emotion when he arrived yesterday
                        afternoon and all through his visit, her agitation to-day, at the mere sound
                        of his voice, assured him that his hold over her was secure. He must be a
                        fool indeed if he could not keep it, in spite of revelations. To offer
                        himself to her threatened vengeance of his own accord, and to see her turned
                        away disarmed, because she loved him; that would be the climax of his
                        victory!
                    There was something of their old antagonism, in the attitude in which they
                        stood facing one another by the side of the grave, looking straight into one
                        another's eyes. The sound of the child's happy laughter floated back to them
                        across the spot where its mother lay at rest. Whether Theobald's intense
                        consciousness of the situation had, in some way, affected Hadria, or whether
                        his expression had given a clue, it would be difficult to say, but suddenly,
                        as a whiff of scent invades the senses, she became aware of a new and
                        horrible fact which had wandered into her mind, she knew not how; and she
                        took a step backwards, as if stunned, breathing shortly and quickly. Again
                        he interpreted this as a sign of intense feeling.
                    “Hadria,” he said bending towards her, “you do love me?” He did not wait for
                        her answer, so confident did he feel. “You love me for myself, not for my
                        virtues or qualities, for I have but few of those, alas!” She tried to
                        speak, but he interrupted her. “I want to make a confession to you. I can
                        never forget what you said that day of Marion Fenwick's wedding, at the side
                        of this very grave; you said that you wanted to take vengeance on the man
                        who had brought such misery to this poor woman. You threatened—at least, it
                        amounted to a threat—to make him fall in love with you, if ever you should
                        meet him, and to render him miserable through his passion. I loved you and I
                        trembled, but I thought to myself, ‘What if I could make her return my love?
                        Where would the vengeance be then?’”
                    Hadria had remained, for a second, perfectly still, and then turned abruptly
                        away.
                    
                    “I knew it would be a shock to you. I did not dare to tell you before. Think
                        what depended on it for me. Had I told you at that moment, I knew all hope
                        for me would be at an end. But now, it seems to me my duty to tell you. If
                        you wish for vengeance still, here I am at your mercy—take it.” He stretched
                        out his arms and stood waiting before her. But she was silent. He was not
                        surprised. Such a revelation, at such a moment, must, of necessity, stun
                        her.
                    “Hadria, pronounce my fate. Do you wish for vengeance still? You have only to
                        take it, if you do. Only for heaven's sake, don't keep me in suspense. Tell
                        me your decision.”
                    Still silence.
                    “Do you want to take revenge on me now?” he repeated.
                    “No;” she said abruptly, “of what use would it be? No, no, wait, wait a
                        moment. I want no vengeance. It is useless for women to try to fight against
                        men; they can only hate them!”
                    The Professor started, as if he had been struck.
                    They stood looking at one another.
                    “In heaven's name, what is the meaning of this? Am I to be hated for a sin
                        committed years ago, and long since repented? Have you no breadth of
                        sympathy, no tolerance for erring humanity? Am I never to be forgiven? Oh,
                        Hadria, Hadria, this is more than I can bear!”
                    She was standing very still and very calm. Her tones were clear and
                        deliberate.
                    “If vengeance is futile, so is forgiveness. It undoes no wrong. It is not a
                        question of forgiveness or of vengeance. I think, after all, if I were to
                        attempt the impossible by trying to avenge women whom men have injured, I
                        should begin with the wives. In this case” (she turned to the grave), “the
                        tragedy is more obvious, but I believe the everyday tragedy of the docile
                        wife and mother is even more profound.”
                    “You speak as coldly, as bitterly, as if you regarded me as your worst enemy—I who love you.” He came forward
                        a step, and she drew back hurriedly.
                    “All that is over. I too have a confession to make.”
                    “Good heavens, what is it? Are you not what I thought you? Have you some
                        history, some stain—? Don't for pity's sake tell me that!”
                    Hadria looked at him, with a cold miserable smile. “That is really amusing!”
                        she cried; “I should not hold myself responsible to you, for my past, in any
                        case. My confession relates to the present. I came up here with this pencil
                        and paper, half resolved to write to you—I wanted to tell you that—that I
                        find—I find my feelings towards you have changed—”
                    He gave a hoarse, inarticulate cry, and turned sharply round. His hands went
                        up to his head. Then he veered suddenly, and went fiercely up to her.
                    “Then you are in earnest? You do hate me! for a sin
                        dead and buried? Good God! could one have believed it? Because I was honest
                        with you, where another man would have kept the matter dark, I am to be
                        thrown over without a word, without a chance. Lord, and this is what a woman
                        calls love!”
                    He broke into a laugh that sounded ghastly and cruel, in the serene calm of
                        the churchyard. The laugh seemed to get the better of him. He had lost
                        self-control. He put his hands on his hips and went on laughing harshly, yet
                        sometimes with a real mirth, as if by that means only could he express the
                        fierce emotions that had been roused in him. Mortified and furious as he
                        was, he derived genuine and cynical amusement from the incident.
                    “And the devotion that we have professed—think of it! and the union of
                        souls—ha, ha, ha! and the common interests and the deep sympathy—it is
                        screaming! Almost worth the price I pay, for the sake of the rattling good
                        joke! And by this grave! Great heavens, how humorous is destiny!” He leant
                        his arms on the tombstone and laughed on softly, his big form shaking, his strange sinister face
                        appearing over the stone, irradiated with merriment. In the dusk, among the
                        graves, the grinning face looked like that of some mocking demon, some
                        gargoyle come to life, to cast a spell of evil over the place.
                    “Ah, me, life has its comic moments!” His eyes were streaming. “I fear I must
                        seem to you flippant, but you will admit the ludicrous side of the
                        situation. I am none the less ready to cut my throat—ha, ha, ha! Admit, my
                        dear Hadria—Mrs. Temperley—that it appeals also to your sense
                        of humour. A common sense of humour, you know, was one of our bonds of
                        union. What more appropriate than that we should part with shaking sides?
                        Oh, Lord! oh, Lord! what am I to do? One can't live on a good joke for
                        ever.”
                    He grasped his head in his hands; then suddenly, he broke out into another
                        paroxysm. “The feminine nature always the same, always, always; infinitely
                        charming and infinitely volatile. Delicious, and oh how instructive!”
                    He slowly recovered calmness, and remained leaning on the gravestone.
                    “May I ask when this little change began to occur!” he asked presently.
                    “If you will ask in a less insolent fashion.”
                    He drew himself up from his leaning attitude, and repeated the question, in
                        different words.
                    Hadria answered it, briefly.
                    “Oh, I see,” he said, the savage gleam coming back to his eyes. “The change
                        in your feelings began when Fortescue appeared?”
                    Hadria flushed.
                    “It was when he appeared that I became definitely aware of that which I had
                        been struggling with all my might and main to hide from myself, for a long
                        time.”
                    “And that was—?”
                    “That there was something in you that made me—well, why should I not say
                        it?—that made me shrink.”
                    
                    He set his lips.
                    “You have not mentioned the mysterious something.”
                    “An element that I have been conscious of from the first day I saw you.”
                     Something that I had, and Fortescue had not, it
                        would seem.”
                    “Yes.”
                    “And so, on account of this diaphanous, indescribable, exquisite something, I
                        am to be calmly thrown over; calmly told to go about my business!” He began
                        to walk up and down the pathway, with feverish steps, talking rapidly, and
                        representing Hadria's conduct in different lights, each one making it appear
                        more absurd and more unjust than the last.
                    “I have no defence to make,” she said, “I know I have behaved contemptibly;
                        self-deception is no excuse. I can explain but not justify myself. I wanted
                        to escape from my eternal self; I was tired of fighting and always in vain.
                        I wanted to throw myself into the life and hopes of somebody else, somebody
                        who had some chance of a real and effective existence. Then
                        other elements of attraction and temptation came; your own memory will tell
                        how many there were. You knew so well how to surround me with these.
                        Everything conspired to tempt me. It seemed as if, in you, I had found a
                        refuge from myself. You have no little power over the emotions, as you are
                        aware. My feeling has been genuine, heaven knows! but, always, always,
                        through it all, I have been aware of this element that repels me; and I have
                        distrusted you.”
                    “I knew you distrusted me,” he said gloomily.
                    “It is useless to say I bitterly regret it all. Naturally, I regret it far
                        more bitterly than you can do. And if my conduct towards you rankles in your
                        heart, you can remember that I have to contend with what is far worse than
                        any sense of being badly treated: the sense of having treated someone
                        badly.”
                    He walked up and down, with bent head and furrowed brows. He looked like some
                        restless wild animal pacing its cage.
                        Intense mortification gave him a strange, malicious expression. He seemed to
                        be casting about for a means of returning the stunning blow that he had
                        received, just at the moment of expected triumph.
                    “Damn!” he exclaimed with sudden vehemence, and stood still, looking down
                        into Hadria's face, with cruel, glittering eyes.
                    He glanced furtively around. There was no one in sight. Even little Martha
                        was making mud-pies by the church door. The thick yew trees shut in the
                        churchyard from the village. There was not a sound, far or near, to break
                        the sense of seclusion.
                    “And you mean to tell me we are to part? You mean to tell me that this is
                        your final decision?”
                    She bowed her head. With a sudden strong movement, he flung his arms round
                        her and clasped her in an embrace, as fierce and revengeful as the sweep of
                        the wind which sends great trees crashing to the ground, and ships to the
                        bottom of the sea.
                    “You don't love me?” he enquired.
                    “Let me go, let me go—coward—madman!”
                    “You don't love me?” he repeated.
                    “I hate you—let me go!”
                    “If this is the last time—”
                    “I wish I could kill you!”
                    “Ah, that is the sort of woman I like!”
                    “You make me know what it is to feel like a murderess!”
                    “And to look like one, by heaven!”
                    She wrenched herself away, with a furious effort.
                    “Coward!” she cried. “I did right to mistrust you!”
                    Little Martha ran up and offered her a wild heartsease which she had found on
                        one of the graves. Hadria, trembling and white, stooped instinctively to
                        take the flower, and as she did so, the whole significance of the
                        afternoon's revelation broke over her, with fresh intensity. His child!
                    He stood watching her, with malice in his eyes.
                    
                    “Come, come, Martha, let us go, let us go,” she cried, feverishly.
                    He moved backwards along the path, as they advanced.
                    “I have to thank you for bestowing a mother's care on my poor child. You can
                        suppose what a joy the thought has been to me all along.”
                    Hadria flushed.
                    “You need not thank me,” she answered. “As you know, I did it first for her
                        mother's sake, and out of hatred to you, unknown as you then were to me. Now
                        I will do it for her own sake, and out of hatred to you, bitterer than
                        ever.”
                    She stooped to take the child's hand.
                    “You are most kind, but I could not think of troubling you any longer. I
                        think of taking the little one myself. She will be a comfort to me, and will
                        cheer my lonely home. And besides you see, duty, Mrs. Temperley, duty—”
                    Hadria caught her breath, and stopped short.
                    “You are going to take her away from me? You are going to revenge yourself
                        like that?”
                    “You have made me feel my responsibilities towards my child, as I fear I did
                        not feel them before. I am powerless, of course, to make up for the evil I
                        have done her, but I can make some reparation. I can take her to live with
                        me; I can give her care and attention, I can give her a good education. I
                        have made up my mind.”
                    Hadria stood before him, white as the gravestone.
                    “You said that vengeance was futile. So it is. Leave the child to me. She
                        shall—she shall want for nothing. Only leave her to me.”
                    “Duty must be our first consideration,” he answered suavely.
                    “I can give her all she needs. Leave her to me.”
                    But the Professor shook his head.
                    “How do I know you have told me the truth?” Hadria exclaimed, with a flash of
                        fury.
                    
                    “Do you mean to dispute it?” he asked.
                    She was silent.
                    “I think you would find that a mistaken policy,” he said, watching her
                        face.
                    “I don't believe you can take her away!” cried Hadria. “I am acting for her
                        mother, and her mother, not having made herself into your legal property,
                            has some legal right to her own child. I don't believe you
                        can make me give her up.”
                    The Professor looked at her calmly.
                    “I think you will find that the law has infinite respect for a father's
                        holiest feelings. Would you have it interfere with his awakening aspirations
                        to do his duty towards his child? What a dreadful thought! And then, I think
                        you have some special views on the education of the little one which I
                        cannot entirely approve. After all, a woman has probably to be a wife and
                        mother, on the good old terms that have served the world for a fair number
                        of centuries, when one comes to consider it: it is a pity to allow her to
                        grow up without those dogmas and sentiments that may help to make the
                        position tolerable, if not always satisfactory, to her. Though, as a
                        philosopher, one may see the absurdity of popular prejudices, yet as a
                        practical man, one feels the inexpediency of disturbing the ideas upon which
                        the system depends, and thus adding to the number of malcontents. All very
                        well for those who think things out for themselves; but the education of a
                        girl should be on the old lines, believe me. You will not believe me, I
                        know, so I think it better, for this as well as for other reasons, to take
                        my daughter under my own care. I am extremely sorry that you should have had
                        all this trouble and responsibility for nothing. And I am grieved that your
                        educational idea should be so frustrated, but what am I to do? My duty is
                        obvious!”
                    “I regret that you did not become a devotee to duty, either a little sooner
                        or a little later,” Hadria returned. “For the present, I suppose Martha will
                        remain with Hannah, until your conscience
                        decides what course you will take, and until I see whether you can carry out
                        your threat.”
                    “Certainly, certainly! I don't wish to give you any unnecessary pain.”
                    “You are consideration itself.” Hadria stooped to take the child's hand. The
                        little fingers nestled confidingly in her palm.
                    “Will you say good-bye, Martha?” asked the Professor, stooping to kiss her.
                        Martha drew away, and struck her father a sturdy blow on the face. She had
                        apparently a vague idea that he had been unkind to her protectress, and that
                        he was an enemy.
                    “Oh, cruel, cruel! What if I don't bring her any more toys?” Martha
                        threatened tears.
                    “Will you allow us to pass?” said Hadria. The Professor stood aside, and the
                        two went, hand in hand, down the narrow path, and through the wicket gate
                        out of the churchyard. Hadria carried still the drooping yellow heartsease
                        that the little girl had given her.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVI.
                    PROFESSOR THEOBALD made his confession to Lady Engleton on that same
                        night, when he also announced that he found it suddenly necessary to return
                        to town.
                    It was some time before she recovered from her astonishment and horror. He
                        told his story quietly, and without an effort to excuse himself.
                    “Of course, though I can't exonerate you, Professor, I blame her more than
                        you,” she said finally, “for her standard in the matter was so different
                        from your's—you being a man.”
                    The Professor suppressed a smile. It always seemed strange to him that a
                        woman should be harder on her own sex than on his, but he had no intention
                        of discouraging this lack of esprit de
                            corps; it had its obvious conveniences.
                    “Did she confess everything to her aunt after her return from Portsmouth?”
                        asked Lady Engleton.
                    “Yes; I have that letter now.”
                    “In which your name is mentioned?”
                    “In which my name is mentioned. I sent money to the girl, but she returned
                        it. She said that she hated me, and would not touch it. So I gave the money
                        to the aunt, and told her to send it on, in her own name, to Ellen, for the
                        child's support. Of course I made secrecy a condition. So as a matter of
                        fact, I have acknowledged the child, though not publicly, and I have
                        contributed to its support from its birth.”
                    “But I thought Mrs. Temperley had been supporting it!” cried Lady
                        Engleton.
                    “Nevertheless I have continued to send the money to the aunt. If Mrs.
                        Temperley chose to take charge of the child, I certainly had nothing to complain of. And I could not openly contribute
                        without declaring myself.”
                    “Dear me, it is all very strange! What would Hadria say if she knew?”
                    “She does know.”
                    “What, all along?”
                    “No, since yesterday.”
                    “And how does she take it?”
                    “She is bitter against me. It is only natural, especially as I told her that
                        I wanted to have the child under my own care.”
                    “Ah, that will be a blow to her. She was wrapped up in the little girl.”
                    Professor Theobald pointed out the difficulties that must begin to crop up,
                        as she grew older. The child could not have the same advantages, in her
                        present circumstances, as the Professor would be able to give her. Lady
                        Engleton admitted that this was true.
                    “Then may I count on you to plead my cause with Mrs. Temperley?”
                    “If Hadria believes that it is for the child's good, she will not stand in
                        the way.”
                    “Unless—. You remember that idea of vengeance that she used to have?”
                    “Oh, she would not let vengeance interfere with the child's welfare!”
                    “I hope not. You see I don't want to adopt strong measures. The law is always
                        odious.”
                    “The law!” Lady Engleton looked startled. “Are you sure that the law would
                        give you the custody of the child?”
                    “Sure of the law? My dear lady, one might as well be sure of a woman—pardon
                        me; you know that I regard this quality of infinite flexibility as one of
                        the supreme charms of your sex. I can't say that I feel it to be the supreme
                        charm of the law. Mrs. Temperley claims to have her authority through the
                        mother, because she has the written consent of the aunt to the adoption, but I think this is
                        rather stretching a point.”
                    “I fear it is, since the poor mother was dead at the time.”
                    “I can prove everything I have said to the satisfaction of anybody,”
                        continued Theobald, “I think my claim to take charge of my child is well
                        established, and you will admit the wish is not unreasonable.”
                    “It does you great credit, but, oh dear, it will be hard for Mrs.
                        Temperley.”
                    “I fear it will. I am most grieved, but what am I to do? I must consider the
                        best interests of the child.”
                    “Doubtless, but you are a trifle late, Professor, in thinking of that.”
                    “Would you prefer it to be never than late?”
                    “Heaven forbid!”
                    “Then I may rely on you to explain the position of affairs to Mrs. Temperley?
                        You will understand that it is a painful subject between us.”
                    Lady Engleton readily promised. She called at the Red House immediately after
                        Professor Theobald's departure. The interview was long.
                    “Then I have not spoken in vain, dear Hadria?” said Lady Engleton, in her
                        most sympathetic tone. Hadria was very pale.
                    “On the contrary, you have spoken to convince.”
                    “I knew that you would do nothing to stand in the way of the child.”
                    Hadria was silent.
                    “I am very sorry about it. You were so devoted to the little girl, and it
                        does seem terribly hard that she should be taken away from you.”
                    “It was my last chance,” Hadria muttered, half audibly.
                    “Then I suppose you will not attempt to resist?”
                    “No,” said Hadria.
                    “He thinks of leaving Martha with you for another month.”
                    “Really? It has not struck him that perhaps I may not keep her for another month. Now that it is once
                        established that Martha is to be regarded as under his
                        guardianship and authority, and that my jurisdiction ceases, he must take
                        her at once. I will certainly not act for him in that matter.
                        Since you are in his confidence, would you kindly tell him that?”
                    Lady Engleton looked surprised. “Certainly; I suppose he and his sister will
                        look after the child.”
                    “I shall send Martha up with Hannah.”
                    “It will astonish him.”
                    “Does he really think I am going to act as his deputy?”
                    “He thought you would be glad to have Martha as long as possible.”
                    “As the child of Ellen Jervis, yes—not as his child.”
                    “I don't see that it matters much, myself,” said Lady Engleton, “however, I
                        will let him know.”
                    “By telegram, please, because Martha will be sent to-morrow.”
                    “What breathless haste!”
                    “Why delay? Hannah will be there—she knows everything about her charge; and
                        if she is only allowed to stay—”
                    “He told me he meant to keep her.”
                    “I am thankful for that!”
                    By this time, the story had flown through the village; nothing else was
                        talked of. The excitement was intense. Gossip ran high in hall and cottage.
                        Professor Fortescue alone could not be drawn into the discussion. Lady
                        Engleton took him aside and asked what he really thought about it. All he
                        would say was that the whole affair was deeply tragic. He had no knowledge
                        of the circumstances and feelings involved, and his judgment must therefore
                        be useless. It seemed more practical to try to help one's fellows to resist
                        sin, than to shriek at convicted sinners.
                    His departure had been fixed for the following morning.
                    “So you and poor little Martha will go up together by the afternoon train, I
                        suppose,” said Lady Engleton.
                    Hadria spent the rest of the day at Martha's cottage. There were many preparations to make. Hannah was
                        bustling about, her eyes red with weeping. She was heart-broken. She
                        declared that she could never live with “that bad man.” But Hadria persuaded
                        her, for Martha's sake, to remain. And Hannah, with another burst of tears,
                        gave an assurance which amounted to a pledge, that she would take a
                        situation with the Father of Evil himself, rather than desert the blessed
                        child.
                    “I wonder if Martha realizes at all what is going to happen,” said Hadria
                        sadly, as she stood watching the little girl playing with her toys. Martha
                        was talking volubly to the blue man. He still clung to a precarious
                        existence (though he was seriously chipped and faded since the Paris days),
                        and had as determined a centre of gravity as ever.
                    “I don't think she understands, ma'am,” said Hannah. “I kep' on tellin' her,
                        and once she cried and said she did not want to go, but she soon forgot
                        it.”
                    Hadria remained till it was time to dress for dinner. Professor Fortescue had
                        promised to dine with her and Valeria on this last evening. Little Martha
                        had been put early to bed, in order that she might have a long rest before
                        the morrow's journey. The golden curls lay like strands of silk on the
                        pillow, the bright eyes were closed in healthful slumber. The child lay, the
                        very image of fresh and pure and sweet human life, with no thought and no
                        dread of the uncertain future that loomed before her. Hannah had gone
                        upstairs to pack her own belongings. The little window was open, as usual,
                        letting the caressing air wander in, as sweet and fresh as the little body
                        and soul to which it had ministered from the beginning.
                    The busy, loud-ticking clock was working on with cheerful unconcern, as if
                        this were just like every other day whose passing moments it had registered.
                        The hands were pointing towards seven, and the dinner hour was half-past
                        seven. Hadria stood looking down at the sleeping child, her hands resting on
                        the low rail of the cot. There was a desolate look in her eyes, and something more terrible still,
                        almost beyond definition. It was like the last white glow of some vast fire
                        that has been extinguished.
                    Suddenly—as something that gives way by the run, after a long resistance—she
                        dropped upon her knees beside the cot with a slight cry, and broke into a
                        silent storm of sobs, deep and suppressed. The stillness of the room was
                        unbroken, and one could hear the loud tick-tack of the little clock telling
                        off the seconds with business-like exactness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVII.
                    THE evening was sultry. Although the windows of the dining-room were
                        wide open, not a breath of air came in from the garden. A dull, muggy
                        atmosphere brooded sullenly among the masses of the evergreens, and in the
                        thick summer foliage of the old walnut tree on the lawn.
                    “How oppressive it is!” Valeria exclaimed.
                    She had been asked to allow a niece of Madame Bertaux, who was to join some
                        friends in Italy, to make the journey under her escort, and the date of her
                        departure was therefore fixed. She had decided to return to town on the
                        morrow, to make her preparations.
                    Valeria declared impulsively that she would stay at home, after all. She
                        could not bear to leave Hadria for so many lonely months.
                    “Oh, no, no,” cried Hadria in dismay, “don't let me begin
                            already to impoverish other lives!”
                    Valeria remonstrated but Hadria persisted.
                    “At least I have learnt that lesson,” she said. “I should have
                        been a fool if I hadn't, for my life has been a sermon on the text.”
                    Professor Fortescue gave a little frown, as he often did when some painful
                        idea passed through his mind.
                    “It is happening everywhere,” said Hadria, “the poor, sterile lives exhaust
                        the strong and full ones. I will not be one of those vampire souls, at least
                        not while I have my senses about me.”
                    Again, the little frown of pain contracted the Professor's brow.
                    
                    The dusk had invaded the dinner table, but they had not thought of candles.
                        They went straight out to the still garden. Valeria had a fan, with which
                        she vainly tried to overcome the expression of the atmosphere. She was very
                        low-spirited. Hadria looked ill and exhausted. Little Martha's name was not
                        mentioned. It was too sore a subject.
                    “I can't bear the idea of leaving you, Hadria, especially when you talk like
                        that. I wish, how I wish, that some way could be found out of this
                        labyrinth. Is this sort of thing to be the end of all the grand new hopes
                        and efforts of women? Is all our force to be killed and overwhelmed in this
                        absurd way?”
                    “Ah, no, not all, in heaven's name!”
                    “But if women won't repudiate, in practice, the claims that they hold to be
                        unjust, in theory, how can they hope to escape? We may talk to all eternity,
                        if we don't act.”
                    Hadria shrugged her shoulders.
                    “Your reasoning is indisputable, but what can one do? There are
                        cases—in short, some things are impossible!”
                    Valeria was silent. “I have thought, at times, that you might make a better
                        stand,” she said at last, clinging still to her theory of the sovereignty of
                        the will.
                    Hadria did not reply.
                    The Professor shook his head.
                    “You know my present conditions,” said Hadria, after a silence. “I can't
                        overcome them. But perhaps some one else in my place might overcome them. I
                        confess I don't see how. Do you?”
                    Valeria hesitated. She made some vague statement about strength of character,
                        and holding on through storm and stress to one's purpose; had not this been
                        the history of all lives worth living?
                    Hadria agreed, but pressed the practical question. And that Valeria could not
                        answer. She could not bring herself to say that the doctor's warnings ought
                        to be disregarded by Hadria, at the risk of her mother's life. It was not
                            merely a risk, but a practical
                        certainty that any further shock or trouble would be fatal. Valeria was
                        tongue-tied.
                    “Now do you see why I feel so terrified when anyone proposes to narrow down
                        his existence, even in the smallest particular, for my sake?” asked Hadria.
                        “It is because I see what awful power a human being may acquire of ravaging
                        and of ruling other lives, and I don't want to acquire that power. I see
                        that the tyranny may be perfectly well-intentioned, and indeed scarcely to
                        be called tyranny, for it is but half conscious, yet only the more
                        irresistible for that.”
                    “It is one's own fault if one submits to conscious tyranny,” the
                        Professor put in, “and I think tyrant and victim are then much on a
                        par.”
                    “A mere demand can be resisted,” Hadria added; “it is
                            grief, real grief, however unreasonable, that brings people
                        to their knees. But, oh, may the day hasten, when people shall cease to
                        grieve when others claim their freedom!”
                    Valeria smiled. “I don't think you are in much danger of grudging liberty to
                        your neighbours, Hadria; so you need not be so frightened of becoming a
                        vampire, as I think you call it.”
                    “Not now, but how can one tell what the result of years and
                        years of monotonous existence may be, or the effect of example? How did it
                        happen that my mother came to feel aggrieved if her daughters claimed some
                        right of choice in the ordering of their lives? I suppose it is because
                            her mother felt aggrieved if she ventured to
                        call her soul her own.”
                    Valeria laughed.
                    “But it is true,” said Hadria. “Very few of us, if any, are in the least
                        original as regards our sorrowing. We follow the fashion. We are not so
                        presumptuous as to decide for ourselves what shall afflict us.”
                    “Or what shall transport us with joy,” added Valeria, with a shrug.
                    “Still less perhaps. Tradition says ‘Weep, this is the moment,’ or ‘Rejoice,
                        the hour has come,’ and we chant our dirge
                        or kindle our bonfires accordingly. Why, it means a little martyrdom to the
                        occasional sinner who selects his own occasion for sorrow or for joy.”
                    Valeria laughed at the notion of Hadria's being under the dictatorship of
                        tradition, or of anything else, as to her emotions.
                    But Hadria held that everybody was more or less subject to the thraldom. And
                        the thraldom increased as the mind and the experience narrowed. And as the
                        narrowing process progressed, she said, the exhausting or vampire quality
                        grew and grew.
                    “I have seen it, I have seen it! Those who have been starved in life, levy a
                        sort of tax on the plenty of others, in the instinctive effort to replenish
                        their own empty treasure-house. Only that is impossible. One can gain no
                        riches in that fashion. One can only reduce one's victim to a beggary like
                        one's own.”
                    Valeria was perturbed.
                    “The more I see of life, the more bitter a thing it seems to be a woman! And
                        one of the discouraging features of it is, that women are so ready to
                        oppress each other!”
                    “Because they have themselves suffered oppression,” said the Professor. “It
                        is a law that we cannot evade; if we are injured, we pay back the injury,
                        whether we will or not, upon our neighbours. If we are blessed, we bless,
                        but if we are cursed, we curse.”
                    “These moral laws, or laws of nature, or whatever one likes to call them,
                        seem to be stern as death!” exclaimed Valeria. “I suppose we are all
                        inheriting the curse that has been laid upon our mothers through so many
                        ages.”
                    “We are not free from the shades of our grandmothers,” said Hadria, “only I
                        hope a little (when I have not been to the Vicarage for some time) that we
                        may be less of a hindrance and an obsession to our granddaughters than our
                        grandmothers have been to us.”
                    “Ah! that way lies hope!” cried the Professor.
                    “I wish, I wish I could believe!” Valeria exclaimed. “But I was born ten years too early for the faith
                        of this generation.”
                    “It is you who have helped to give this generation its faith,” said
                        Hadria.
                    “But have you real hope and real faith, in your heart of hearts? Tell me,
                        Hadria.”
                    Hadria looked startled.
                    “Ah! I knew it. Women don't really believe that the cloud will
                        lift. If they really believed what they profess, they would prove it. They
                        would not submit and resign themselves. Oh, why don't you shew what a woman
                        can do, Hadria?”
                    Hadria gave a faint smile.
                    She did not speak for some time, and when she did, her words seemed to have
                        no direct reference to Valeria's question.
                    “I believe that there are thousands and thousands of women whose lives have
                        run on parallel lines with mine.”
                    She recalled a strange and grotesque vision, or waking-dream, that she had
                        dreamt a few nights before: of a vast abyss, black and silent, which had to
                        be filled up to the top with the bodies of women, hurled down to the depths
                        of the pit of darkness, in order that the survivors might, at last, walk
                        over in safety. Human bodies take but little room, and the abyss seemed to
                        swallow them, as some greedy animal its prey. But Hadria knew, in her dream,
                        that some day it would have claimed its last victim, and the surface would
                        be level and solid, so that people would come and go, scarcely remembering
                        that beneath their feet was once a chasm into which throbbing lives had to
                        descend, to darkness and a living death.
                    Valeria looked anxious and ill at ease. She watched Hadria's face.
                    She was longing to urge her to leave Craddock Dene, but was deterred by the
                        knowledge of the uselessness of such advice. Hadria could not take it.
                    “I chafe against these situations!” cried Valeria. “I am so unused, in my own life, to such tethers and
                        limitations. They would drive me crazy!”
                    “Oh,” Hadria exclaimed, with an amused smile, “this is a new cry!”
                    “I don't care,” said Valeria discontentedly. “I never supposed that one
                            could be tied hand and foot, in this way. I should never
                        stand it. It is intolerable!”
                    “These are what you have frequently commended to me as ‘home ties,’” said
                        Hadria.
                    “Oh, but it is impossible!”
                    “You attack the family!” cried the Professor.
                    “If the family makes itself ridiculous—?”
                    The Professor and Hadria laughed. Valeria was growing excited.
                    “The natural instinct of man to get his fun at his neighbour's expense meets
                        with wholesome rebuffs in the outer world,” said the Professor, “but in the
                        family it has its chance. That's why the family is so popular.”
                    Valeria, with her wonted capriciousness, veered round in defence of the
                        institution that she had been just jeering at.
                    “Well, after all, it is the order of Nature to have one's fun at the expense
                        of someone, and I don't believe we shall ever be able to practise any other
                        principle, I mean on a national scale, however much we may progress.”
                    “Oh, but we shan't progress unless we do,” said the
                        Professor.
                    “You are always paradoxical.”
                    “There is no paradox here. I am just as certain as I am of my own existence,
                        that real, solid, permanent progress is impossible to any people until they
                        recognise, as a mere truism, that whatever is gained by cruelty, be it
                        towards the humblest thing alive, is not gain, but the worst of loss.”
                    “Oh, you always go too far!” cried Valeria.
                    “I don't admit that in a horror of cruelty, it is possible to go too far,”
                        the Professor replied. “Cruelty is the one unpardonable sin.” He passed his
                        hand across his brow, with a weary
                        gesture, as if the pressure of misery and tumult and anguish in the world,
                        were more than he could bear.
                    “You won't give up your music, Hadria,” Valeria said, at the end of a long
                        cogitation.
                    “It is a forlorn sort of pursuit,” Hadria answered, with a whimsical smile,
                        “but I will do all I can.” Valeria seemed relieved.
                    “And you will not give up hope?”
                    “Hope? Of what?”
                    “Oh, of—of—. What an absurd question!”
                    Hadria smiled. “It is better to face facts, I think, than to shroud them
                        away. After all, it is only by the rarest chance that character and
                        conditions happen to suit each other so well that the powers can be
                        developed. They are generally crushed. One more or less—.” Hadria gave a
                        shrug.
                    The Professor broke in, abruptly.
                    “It is exactly the one more or less that sends the balance up or down, that
                        decides the fate of men and nations. An individual often counts more than a
                        generation. If that were not so, nothing would be possible, and hope would
                        be insane.”
                    “Perhaps it is!” said Hadria beneath her breath.
                    The Professor had risen. He heard the last words, but made no remonstrance.
                        Yet there was a something in his expression that gave comfort.
                    “I fear I shall have to be going back,” he said, looking at his watch. As he
                        spoke, the first notes of a nightingale stole out of the shrubbery. Voices
                        were hushed, and the three stood listening spellbound, to the wonderful
                        impassioned song. Hadria marvelled at its strange serenity, despite the
                        passion, and speculated vaguely as to the possibility of a paradox of the
                        same kind in the soul of a human being. Passion and serenity? Had not the
                        Professor combined these apparent contradictions?
                    There was ecstasy so supreme in the bird's note that it had become calm
                        again, like great heat that affects the senses, as with frost, or a flooded
                        river that runs swift and smooth for very fulness.
                    
                    Presently, a second nightingale began to answer from a distant tree, and the
                        garden was filled with the wild music. One or two stars had already twinkled
                        out.
                    “I ought really to be going,” said the Professor.
                    But he lingered still. His eyes wandered anxiously to Hadria's white face. He
                        said good-night to Valeria, and then he and Hadria walked to the gate
                        together.
                    “You will come back and see us at Craddock Dene soon after you return, won't
                        you?” she said wistfully.
                    “Of course I will. And I hope that meanwhile, you will set to work to get
                        strong and well. All your leisure ought to be devoted to that object, for
                        the present. I should be so delighted to hear from you now and again, when
                        you have a spare moment and the spirit moves you. I will write and tell you
                        how I fare, if I may. If, at any time, I can be of service to you, don't
                        forget how great a pleasure it would be to me to render it. I hope if ever I
                        come back to England—”
                    “When you come back,” Hadria corrected, hastily.
                    —“that we may meet oftener.”
                    “Indeed, that will be something to look forward to!”
                    They exchanged the hearty, lingering handshake of trusty friendship and deep
                        affection. The last words, the last good wishes, were spoken, the last
                        wistful effort was made of two human souls to bid each other be of good
                        cheer, and to bring to one another comfort and hope. Hadria leant on the
                        gate, a lonely figure in the dim star-light, watching the form that had
                        already become shadowy, retreating along the road and gradually losing
                        itself in the darkness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVIII.
                    AUTUMN had come round again. Craddock Dene had calmed down after the
                        exciting event of the summer. Martha's little cottage was now standing
                        empty, the virginia creeper trailing wildly, in thick festoons and dangling
                        sprays over the porch and creeping up round the windows, even threatening to
                        cover them with a ruddy screen, since now the bright little face no longer
                        looked out of the latticed panes, and the cottage was given over to dust and
                        spiders.
                    Mrs. Temperley was often seen by the villagers passing along the road towards
                        Craddock. She would sometimes pause at the cottage, to gather a few of the
                        flowers that still came up in the tiny garden. It was said that she gathered
                        them to lay on Ellen Jervis's grave.
                    “Dear, dear, she do take on about that child!” Dodge used to say, as she
                        passed up the street of Craddock. And Mrs. Gullick, good soul, would shake
                        her head and express her sympathy, in spite of not “holding” with Mrs.
                        Temperley's “ways.”
                    Her poorer neighbours understood far more than the others could understand,
                        how sorely she was grieving about the child. Because she said nothing on the
                        subject, it was generally supposed that she had ceased to care. After all,
                        it was an act of charity that she had undertaken, on an impulse, and it was
                        quite as well that she should be relieved of the responsibility.
                    Hannah used to write regularly, to let her know how Martha was. Professor
                        Theobald had directed Hannah to do this. The nurse had to admit that he was
                        very good and very devoted to the child. She throve in her new home, and
                        seemed perfectly happy.
                    
                    Hadria was now delivered over to the tender mercies of her own thoughts. Her
                        memories burnt, as corrosive acids, in her brain. She could find no shadow
                        of protection from her own contempt. There was not one nook or cranny into
                        which that ruthless self-knowledge could not throw its cruel glare. In the
                        hours of darkness, in the haunted hours of the early morning, she and her
                        memories played horrible games with one another. She was hunted, they the
                        hunters. There was no thought on which she could rest, no consoling
                        remembrance. She often wished that she had followed her frequent impulse to
                        tell Miss Du Prel the whole wretched story. But she could not force herself
                        to touch the subject through the painful medium of speech. Valeria knew that
                        Hadria was capable of any outward law-breaking, but she would never be
                        prepared for the breaking of her own inner law, the real canon on which she
                        had always laid so much stress. And then she had shrunk from the idea of
                        betraying a secret not solely her own. If she told the story, Valeria would
                        certainly guess the name. She felt a still greater longing that Professor
                        Fortescue should know the facts; he would be able to help her to face it
                        all, and to take the memory into her life and let its pain eat out what was
                        base and evil in her soul. He would give her hope; his experience, his
                        extraordinary sympathy, would enable him to understand it all, better than
                        she did herself. If he would look at this miserable episode unflinchingly,
                        and still hold out his hand to her, as she knew he would, and still believe
                        in her, then she might believe still in herself, in her power of rising
                        after this lost illusion, this shock of self-detection, and of going on
                        again, sadder, and perhaps stronger; but if he thought that since she was
                        capable of a real treason against her gods, that she was radically unsound
                        at heart, and a mass of sophistication, then—Hadria buried her face in the
                        pillow. She went through so often now, these paroxysms of agony. Do what she
                        would, look where she might, she saw no relief. She was afraid to trust
                        herself. She was afraid to accept her own suggestions of comfort, if ever a
                        ray of it came to her, lest it should be but another form of self-deception, another proof of moral instability. In
                        her eternal tossing to and fro, in mental anguish, the despairing idea often
                        assailed her: that after all, it did not matter what she did or thought. She
                        was but an atom of the vast whole, a drop in the ocean of human life.
                    She had no end or motive in anything. She could go on doing what had to be
                        done to the last, glad if she might bring a little pleasure in so acting,
                        but beyond that, what was there to consider? The wounds to her vanity and
                        her pride ached a little, at times, but the infinitely deeper hurt of
                        disillusion overwhelmed the lesser feeling. She was too profoundly sad to
                        care for that trivial mortification.
                    Sometimes, Professor Fortescue used to write to Hadria, and she looked
                        forward to these letters as to nothing else. She heard from Valeria also,
                        who had met the Professor at Siena. She said he did not look as well as she
                        had hoped to find him. She could not see that he had gained at all, since
                        leaving England. He was cheerful, and enjoying sunny Italy as much as his
                        strength would allow. Valeria was shocked to notice how very weak he was. He
                        had a look in his face that she could not bear to see. If he did not improve
                        soon, she thought of trying to persuade him to return home to see his doctor
                        again. When one was ill, home was the best place after all.
                    “You and Professor Fortescue,” she said, in closing her letter, “are the two
                        people I love in the world. You are all that I have in life to cling to.
                        Write to me, dearest Hadria, for I am very anxious and wretched.”
                    The affairs of life and death mix themselves incongruously enough, in this
                        confused world. The next news that stirred the repose of Craddock Dene, was
                        that of Algitha's engagement to Wilfrid Burton. In spite of his socialistic
                        views, Mrs. Fullerton was satisfied with the marriage, because Wilfrid
                        Burton was well-connected and had good expectations. The mother had feared
                        that Algitha would never marry at all, and she not only raised no objection,
                        but seemed relieved. Wilfrid Burton had come down to stay at the Red
                            House, during one of Algitha's
                        holidays, and it was then that the betrothal had taken place. The marriage
                        promised to be happy, for the couple were deeply attached and had interests
                        in common. They intended to continue to work on the same lines after they
                        were married. Both parents were favourably impressed by the son-in-law
                        elect, and the Cottage became the scene of exciting arguments on the subject
                        of socialism. Mr. Fullerton insisted on holding Wilfrid Burton responsible
                        for every sort of theory that had ever been attributed not merely to
                        socialists, but to communists, anarchists, collectivists, nihilists, and the
                        rest; and nothing would persuade him that the young man was not guilty of
                        all these contradictory enormities of thought. Wilfrid's personality,
                        however, overcame every prejudice against him, on this account, after the
                        first meeting.
                    Joseph Fleming, among others, congratulated Algitha heartily on her
                        engagement.
                    “I can see you are very happy,” he said naïvely. She laughed and
                        coloured.
                    “Indeed I ought to be. Life is gloriously worth living, when it is lived in
                        the presence of good and generous souls.”
                    “I wish I had married,” said Joseph pensively.
                    “It is not too late to mend,” suggested Algitha.
                    “How reckless you are!” exclaimed her sister. “How can you recommend marriage
                        in the abstract? You happen to have met just the right person, but Mr.
                        Fleming hasn't, it would seem.”
                    “If one person can be so fortunate, so can another,” said Algitha.
                    “Why tempt Providence? Rather bear the ills you have—”
                    “I am surprised to hear you take a gloomy view of anything, Mrs. Temperley,”
                        said Joseph; “I always thought you so cheerful. You say funnier things than
                        any lady I have ever met, except an Irish girl who used to sing comic
                        songs.”
                    Both sisters laughed.
                    
                    “How do you know that, in the intervals of her comic songs, that girl has not
                        a gloomy disposition?” asked Hadria.
                    “Oh no, you can see that she is without a care in the world; she is like Miss
                        Fullerton, always full of good cheer and kindness.”
                    “Had she also slums to cheer her up?” asked Hadria.
                    “No, not at all. She never does anything in particular.”
                    “I am surprised that she is cheerful then,” said Algitha. “It won't
                        last.”
                    “It is her slums that keep my sister in such good spirits,” said Hadria.
                    “Really! Well, if you are fond of that sort of thing, Mrs. Temperley, there
                        are some nasty enough places at the lower end of Craddock—”
                    “Oh, it isn't that one clings to slums for slums' sake,” cried Hadria
                        laughing.
                    “I am afraid they are already overrun with visitors,” Joseph added. “There
                        are so many Miss Walkers.”
                    It was not long after this conversation, that Craddock Dene was thrilled by
                        another piece of matrimonial news. Joseph Fleming was announced to be
                        engaged to the Irish girl who sang comic songs. She was staying with Mrs.
                        Jordan at the time. And the Irish girl, whose name was Kathleen O'Halloran,
                        came and sang her comic songs to Craddock Dene, while Joseph sat and beamed
                        in pride and happiness, and the audience rippled with laughter.
                    Kathleen was very pretty and very fascinating, with her merry, kind-hearted
                        ways, and she became extremely popular with her future neighbours.
                    Little changes had taken place in the village, through death or marriage or
                        departure. Dodge had laid to rest many victims of influenza, which visited
                        the neighbourhood with great severity. Among the slain, poor Dodge had to
                        number his own wife. The old man was broken down with his loss. He loved to
                        talk over her illness and death with Hadria, whose presence seemed to comfort him more than anything else, as he
                        assured her, in his quaint dialect.
                    Sometimes, returning through the Craddock Woods, Hadria would pass through
                        the churchyard on her way home, after her walk, and there she would come
                        upon Dodge patiently at work upon some new grave, the sound of his pickaxe
                        breaking the autumn silence, ominously. His head was more bent than of yore,
                        and his hair was whiter. His old face would brighten up when he heard
                        Hadria's footstep, and he would pause, a moment or two, for a gossip. The
                        conversation generally turned upon his old “missus,” who was buried under a
                        yew tree, near the wicket gate. Then he would ask after Hadria's belongings;
                        about her father and mother, about Hubert, and the boys. Mr. Fullerton had
                        made the gravedigger's acquaintance, and won his hearty regard by many a
                        chat and many a little kindness. Dodge had never ceased to regret that
                        Martha had been taken away from Craddock. The place seemed as if it had gone
                        to sleep, he said. Things weren't as they used to be.
                    Hadria would often go to see the old man, trying to cheer him and minister to
                        his growing ailments. His shrewdness was remarkable. Mr. Fullerton quoted
                        Dodge as an authority on matters of practical philosophy, and the old
                        gravedigger became a sort of oracle at the Cottage. Wilfrid Burton
                        complained that he was incessantly confronted with some saying of Dodge, and
                        from this there was no appeal.
                    The news from Italy was still far from reassuring. Valeria was terribly
                        anxious. But she felt thankful, she said, to be with the invalid and able to
                        look after him. The doctors would not hear of his returning to England at
                        the approach of winter. It would be sheer suicide. He must go further south.
                        Valeria had met some old friends, among them Madame Bertaux, and they had
                        decided to go on together, perhaps to Naples or Sorrento. Her friends had
                        all fallen in love with the Professor, as every one did. They were a great
                        help and comfort to her. If it were not for the terrible foreboding, Valeria said she would be perfectly
                        happy. The Professor's presence seemed to change the very atmosphere. He
                        spoke often about Hadria, and over and over again asked Valeria to watch
                        over her and help her. And he spoke often about his wife. Valeria confessed
                        that, at one time, she used to be horribly and shamefully jealous of this
                        wife, whom he worshipped so faithfully, but now that feeling had left her.
                        She was thankful for the great privilege of his friendship. A new tone had
                        come over Valeria's letters, of late; the desperate, almost bitter element
                        had passed away, and something approaching serenity had taken its place.
                    No one, she said, could be in the Professor's presence every day, and remain
                        exactly the same as before. She saw his potent, silent influence upon every
                        creature who crossed his path. He came and went among his fellows, quietly,
                        beneficently, and each was the better for having met him, more or less,
                        according to the fineness and sensitiveness of the nature.
                    “My love for him,” said Valeria, “used at one time to be a great trouble to
                        me. It made me restless and unhappy. Now I am glad of it, and though there
                        must be an element of pain in a hopeless love, yet I hold myself fortunate
                        to have cherished it.”
                    Hadria received this letter from the postman when she was coming out of
                        Dodge's cottage.
                    It threw her into a conflict of strong and painful feeling: foreboding,
                        heart-sickness, a longing so strong to see her friends that it seemed as if
                        she must pack up instantly and go to them, and through it all, a sense of
                        loneliness that was almost unbearable. How she envied Valeria! To love with
                        her whole heart, without a shadow of doubt; to have that element of warmth
                        in her life which could never fail her, like sunshine to the earth. Among
                        the cruelest elements of Hadria's experience had been that emptying of her
                        heart; the rebuff to the need for love, the conviction that she was to go
                        through life without its supreme emotion. Professor Theobald had thrown away
                        what might have been a master-passion. The
                        outlook was so blank and cold, so unutterably lonely! She looked back to the
                        days at Dunaghee, as if several lifetimes had passed between her and them.
                        What illusions they had all harboured in those strange old days!
                    “Do you remember our famous discussion on Emerson in the garret?” she said to
                        Algitha.
                    “Do I? It is one of the episodes of our youth that stands out most
                        distinctly.”
                    “And how about Emerson's doctrine? Are we the makers of our
                        circumstances? Does our fate ‘fit us like a glove?’”
                    Algitha looked thoughtful. “I doubt it,” she said.
                    “Yet you have brilliantly done what you meant to do.”
                    “My own experience does not overshadow my judgment entirely, I hope,” said
                        Algitha. “I have seen too much of a certain tragic side of life to be able
                        to lay down a law of that sort. I can't believe, for instance, that among
                        all those millions in the East End, not one man or woman, for
                        all these ages, was born with great capacities, which better conditions
                        might have allowed to come to fruition. I think you were right, after all.
                        It is a matter of relation.”
                    The autumn was unusually fine, and the colours sumptuous beyond description.
                        The vast old trees that grew so tall and strong, in the genial English soil,
                        burnt away their summer life in a grand conflagration.
                    Hubert had successfully carried the day with regard to the important case
                        which had taken him abroad, and had now returned to Craddock Dene. Henriette
                        came to stay at the Red House.
                    She followed her brother, one day, into the smoking-room, and there, with
                        much tact and circumlocution, gave him to understand that she thought Hadria
                        was becoming more sensible; that she was growing more like other people,
                        less opinionated, wiser, and better in every way.
                    “Hadria was always very sweet, of course,” said Henriette, “but she had the
                        faults of her qualities, as we all have. You have had your trials, dear
                        Hubert, but I rejoice to believe that
                        Hadria will give you little further cause for pain or regret.” Hubert made
                        no reply. He placed the tips of his fingers together and looked into the
                        fire.
                    “I think that the companionship of Lady Engleton has been of great service to
                        Hadria,” he observed, after a long pause.
                    “Unquestionably,” assented Henriette. “She has had an enormous influence upon
                        her. She has taught Hadria to see that one may hold one's own ideas quietly,
                        without flying in everybody's face. Lady Engleton is a pronounced agnostic,
                        yet she never misses a Sunday at Craddock Church, and I am glad to see that
                        Hadria is following her example. It must be a great satisfaction to you,
                        Hubert. People used to talk unpleasantly about Hadria's extremely irregular
                        attendance. It is such a mistake to offend people's ideas, in a small place
                        like this.”
                    “That is what I told Hadria,” said Hubert, “and her mother has been speaking
                        seriously to her on the subject. Hadria made no opposition, rather to my
                        surprise. She said that she would go as regularly as our dining-room clock,
                        if it gave us all so much satisfaction.”
                    “How charming!” cried Henriette benevolently, “and how characteristic!”
                    As Hadria sank in faith and hope, she rose in the opinion of her neighbours.
                        She was never nearer to universal unbelief than now, when the orthodox began
                        to smile upon her.
                    Life presented itself to her as a mere welter of confused forces. If
                        goodness, or aspiration, or any godlike thing arose, for a moment—like some
                        shipwrecked soul with hands outstretched above the waves—swiftly it sank
                        again submerged, leaving only a faint ripple on the surface, soon overswept
                        and obliterated.
                    She could detect no light on the face of the troubled waters. Looking around
                        her at other lives, she saw the story written in different characters, but
                        always the same; hope, struggle, failure. The pathos of old age wrung her
                            heart; the sorrows of the poor, the
                        lonely, the illusions of the seeker after wealth, the utter vanity of the
                        objects of men's pursuit, and the end of it all!
                    “I wonder what is the secret of success, Hadria?”
                    “Speaking generally, I should say to have a petty aim.”
                    “Then if one succeeds after a long struggle,” said Algitha pensively.
                    “One finds it, I doubt not, the dismalest of failures.”
                    A great cloud of darkness seemed to have descended over the earth. Hadria
                        felt cut off even from Nature. The splendours of the autumn appeared at a
                        vast distance from her. They belonged to another world. She could not get
                        near them. Mother earth had deserted her child.
                    A superficial apathy was creeping over her, below which burnt a slow fire of
                        pain. But the greater the apathy, which expressed itself outwardly in a sort
                        of cheerful readiness to take things as they came, the more delighted
                        everybody appeared to be with the repentant sinner. Her associates seemed to
                        desire earnestly that she should go to church, as they did, in her best
                        bonnet—and why not? She would get a best bonnet, as ridiculous as they
                        pleased, and let Mr. Walker do his worst. What did it matter? Who was the
                        better or the worse for what she thought or how she acted? What mattered it,
                        whether she were consistent or not? What mattered it if she seemed, by her
                        actions, to proclaim her belief in dogmas that meant nothing to her, except
                        as interesting products of the human mind? She had not enough faith to make
                        it worth while to stand alone.
                    Lord Engleton said he thought it right to go to church regularly, for the
                        sake of setting an example to the masses, a sentiment which always used to
                        afford Hadria more amusement than many intentional witticisms.
                    She went often to the later service, when the autumn twilight lay heavy and
                        sad upon the churchyard, and the peace of evening stole in through the
                        windows of the church. Then, as the sublime poetry of psalmist or prophet
                        rolled through the Norman arches, or the
                        notes of the organ stole out of the shadowed chancel, a spirit of repose
                        would creep into the heart of the listener, and the tired thoughts would
                        take a more rhythmic march. She felt nearer to her fellows, at such moments,
                        than at any other. Her heart went out to them, in wistful sympathy. They
                        seemed to be standing together then, one and all, at the threshold of the
                        great Mystery, and though they might be parted ever so widely by
                        circumstance, temperament, mental endowment, manner of thought, yet after
                        all, they were brethren and fellow sufferers; they shared the weakness, the
                        longing, the struggle of life; they all had affections, ambitions,
                        heart-breakings, sins, and victories; the differences were slight and
                        transient, in the presence of the vast unknown, the Ultimate Reality for
                        which they were all groping in the darkness. This sense of brotherhood was
                        strongest with regard to the poorer members of the congregation: the
                        labourers with their toil-stained hands and bent heads, the wives, the weary
                        mothers, their faces seamed with the ceaseless strain of child-bearing, and
                        hard work, and care and worry. In their prematurely ageing faces, in their
                        furrowed brows, Hadria could trace the marks of Life's bare and ruthless
                        hand, which had pressed so heavily on those whose task it had been to bestow
                        the terrible gift. Here the burden had crushed soul and flesh; here that
                        insensate spirit of Life had worked its will, gratified its rage to produce
                        and reproduce, it mattered not what in the semblance of the human, so long
                        only as that wretched semblance repeated itself, and repeated itself again,
                            ad nauseum, while it destroyed the
                        creatures which it used for its wild purpose—
                    And the same savage story was written, once more, on the faces of the better
                        dressed women: worry, weariness, apathy, strain; these were marked
                        unmistakeably, after the first freshness of youth had been driven away, and
                        the features began to take the mould of the habitual thoughts and the
                        habitual impressions.
                    
                    And on these faces, there was a certain pettiness and coldness not observable
                        on those of the poorer women.
                    Often, when one of the neighbours called and found Hadria alone, some chance
                        word of womanly sympathy would touch a spring, and then a sad, narrow little
                        story of trouble and difficulty would be poured out; a revelation of the
                        bewildered, toiling, futile existences that were being passed beneath a
                        smooth appearance; of the heart-ache and heroism and misplaced sacrifice, of
                        the ruined lives that a little common sense and common kindness might have
                        saved; the unending pain and trouble about matters entirely trivial,
                        entirely absurd; the ceaseless travail to bring forth new elements of
                        trouble for those who must inherit the deeds of to-day; the burdened
                        existences agonizing to give birth to new existences, equally burdened,
                        which in their turn, were to repeat the ceaseless oblation to the gods of
                        Life.
                    “Futile?” said Lady Engleton. “I think women are generally fools, entre nous; that is why they so often fill
                        their lives with sound and fury, accomplishing nothing.”
                    Hadria felt that this was a description of her own life, as well as that of
                        most of her neighbours.
                    “I can understand so well how it is that women become conventional,” she
                        said, apparently without direct reference to the last remark, “it is so
                        useless to take the trouble to act on one's own initiative. It annoys
                        everybody frightfully, and it accomplishes nothing, as you say.”
                    “My dear Hadria, you alarm me!” cried Lady Engleton, laughing. “You must
                        really be very ill indeed, if you have come to this conclusion!”
                    In looking over some old papers and books, one afternoon, Hadria came upon
                        the little composition called Futility, which a mood had called
                        forth at Dunaghee, years ago. She had almost forgotten about it, and in
                        trying it over, she found that it was like trying over the work of some
                        other person.
                    It expressed with great exactness the feelings that overwhelmed her now,
                        whenever she let her imagination dwell
                        upon the lives of women, of whatever class and whatever kind. Futility! The
                        mournful composition, with its strange modern character, its suggestion of
                        striving and confusion and pain, expressed as only music could express, the
                        yearning and the sadness that burden so many a woman's heart to-day.
                    She knew that the music was good, and that now she could compose music
                        infinitely better. The sharpness of longing for her lost art cut through
                        her. She half turned from the piano and then went back, as a moth to the
                        flame.
                    How was this eternal tumult to be stilled? Facts were definite and clear,
                        there was no room for doubt or for hope. These facts then had to be dealt
                        with. How did other women deal with them? Not so much better than she did,
                        after all, as it appeared when one was allowed to see beneath the amiable
                        surface of their lives. They were all spinning round and round, in a dizzy
                        little circle, all whirling and toiling and troubling, to no purpose.
                    Even Lady Engleton, who appeared so bright and satisfied, had her secret
                        misery which spoilt her life. She had beauty, talent, wealth, everything to
                        make existence pleasant and satisfactory, but she had allowed externals and
                        unessentials to encroach upon it, to govern her actions, to usurp the place
                        of her best powers, to creep into her motives, till there was little germ
                        and heart of reality left, and she was beginning to feel starved and aimless
                        in the midst of what might have been plenty. Lady Engleton had turned to her
                        neighbour at the Red House in an instinctive search for sympathy, as the
                        more genuine side of her nature began to cry out against the emptiness of
                        her graceful and ornate existence. Hadria was startled by the revelation.
                        Hubert had always held up Lady Engleton as a model of virtue and wisdom, and
                        perfect contentment. Yet she too, it turned out, for all her smiles and her
                        cheerfulness, was busy and weary with futilities. She too, like the fifty
                        daughters of Danaus, was condemned to the idiot's labour of eternally
                        drawing water in 
                            sieves
                            ieves
                         from fathomless wells.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIX.
                    ALGITHA'S marriage took place almost immediately. There was no
                        reason for delay. She stayed at the Cottage, and was married at Craddock
                        Church, on one of the loveliest mornings of the year, as the villagers
                        noticed with satisfaction. Both sisters had become favourites in the
                        neighbourhood among the poorer people, and the inhabitants mustered to see
                        the wedding.
                    It was only for her mother's sake that Algitha had consented to a
                        conventional ceremony. She said that she and Wilfrid both hated the whole
                        barbaric show. They submitted only because there was no help for it.
                        Algitha's mother would have broken her heart if they had been bound merely
                        by the legal tie, as she and Wilfrid desired.
                    “Indeed, the only tie that we respect is that of our love and faith. If that
                        failed, we should scorn to hold one another in unwilling bondage. We are not
                        entirely without self-respect.”
                    The couple were to take a tour in Italy, where they hoped to meet Valeria and
                        Professor Fortescue. Joseph Fleming was married, almost at the same time, to
                        his merry Irish girl.
                    The winter came suddenly. Some terrific gales had robbed the trees of their
                        lingering yellow leaves, and the bare branches already shewed their
                        exquisite tracery against the sky. Heavy rain followed, and the river was
                        swollen, and there were floods that made the whole country damp, and rank,
                        and terribly depressing. Mrs. Fullerton felt the influence of the weather,
                        and complained of neuralgia and other ailments. She needed watching very
                        carefully, and plenty of cheerful companionship. This was hard to supply. In
                            struggling to belie her feelings, day
                        after day, Hadria feared, at times, that she would break down disastrously.
                        She was frightened at the strange haunting ideas that came to her, the dread
                        and nameless horror that began to prey upon her, try as she would to protect
                        herself from these nerve-torments, which she could trace so clearly to their
                        causes. If only, instead of making one half insane and stupid, the strain of
                        grief would but kill one outright, and be done with it!
                    Old Dodge was a good friend to Hadria, at this time. He saw that something
                        was seriously wrong, and he managed to convey his affectionate concern in a
                        thousand little kindly ways that brought comfort to her loneliness, and
                        often filled her eyes with sudden tears. Nor was he the only friend she had
                        in the village, whose sympathy was given in generous measure. Hadria had
                        been able to be of use, at the time of the disastrous epidemic which had
                        carried off so many of the population, and since then had been admitted to
                        more intimate relationship with the people; learning their troubles and
                        their joys, their anxieties, and the strange pathos of their lives. She
                        learnt, at this time, the quality of English kindness and English sympathy,
                        which Valeria used to say was equalled nowhere in the world.
                    Before the end of the winter, Algitha and her husband returned.
                    “I'm real glad, mum, that I be,” said Dodge, “to think as you has your sister
                        with you again. There ain't nobody like one's kith and kin, wen things isn't
                        quite as they should be, as one may say. Miss Fullerton—which I means Mrs.
                        Burton—is sure to do you a sight o' good, bless 'er.”
                    Dodge was right. Algitha's healthy nature, strengthened by happiness and
                        success, was of infinite help to Hadria, in her efforts to shake off the
                        symptoms that had made her frightened of herself. She did not know what
                        tricks exhausted nerves might play upon her, or what tortures they had in
                        store for her.
                    Algitha's judgments were inclined to be definite and clear-cut to the point
                        of hardness. She did not know the meaning
                        of over-wrought nerves, nor the difficulties of a nature more imaginative
                        than her own. She had found her will-power sufficient to meet all the
                        emergencies of her life, and she was disposed to feel a little contemptuous,
                        especially of late, at a persistent condition of difficulty and confusion.
                        Her impulse was to attack such a condition and bring it to order, by force
                        of will. The active temperament is almost bound to misunderstand the
                        imaginative or artistic spirit and its difficulties. A real cul de sac was to Algitha almost unthinkable.
                        There must be some means of finding one's way out.
                    Hadria's present attitude amazed and irritated her. She objected to her
                        regular church-going, as dishonest. Was she not, for the sake of peace and
                        quietness, professing that which she did not believe? And how was it that
                        she was growing more into favour with the Jordans and Walkers and all the
                        narrow, wooden-headed people? Surely an ominous sign.
                    After the long self-suppression, the long playing of a fatiguing rôle, Hadria
                        felt an unspeakable relief in Algitha's presence. To her, at least, she need
                        not assume a false cheerfulness.
                    Algitha noticed, with anxiety, the change that was coming over her sister,
                        the spirit of tired acquiescence, the insidious creeping in of a slightly
                        cynical view of things, in place of the brave, believing, imaginative
                        outlook that she had once held towards life. This cynicism was more or less
                        superficial however, as Algitha found when they had a long and intimate
                        conversation, one evening in Hadria's room, by her fire; but it was painful
                        to Algitha to hear the hopeless tones of her sister's voice, now that she
                        was speaking simply and sincerely, without bitterness, but without what is
                        usually called resignation.
                    “No; I don't think it is all for the best,” said Hadria. “I think, as far as
                        my influence goes, it is all for the worst. What fatal argument my life will
                        give to those who are seeking reasons to hold our sex in the old bondage! My
                        struggles, my failure, will add to the staggering weight that we all stumble
                        under. I have hindered more—that is the bitter thing—by having tried and failed, than if I had
                        never tried at all. Mrs. Walker, Mrs. Gordon herself, has given less
                        arguments to the oppressors than I.”
                    “But why? But how?” cried Algitha incredulously.
                    “Because no one can point to them, as they will to me, and say,
                        ‘See, what a ghastly failure! See how feeble after all, are these
                        pretentious women of the new order, who begin by denying the sufficiency of
                        the life assigned them, by common consent, and end by failing in that and in
                        the other which they aspire to. What has become of all the talent and all
                        the theories and resolves?’ And so the next girl who dares to have
                        ambitions, and dares to scorn the rôle of
                        adventuress that society allots to her, will have the harder fate because of
                        my attempt. Now nothing in the whole world,” cried Hadria, her voice losing
                        the even tones in which she had been speaking, “nothing in the whole world
                        will ever persuade me that that is all for the best!”
                    “I never said it was, but when a thing has to be, why not make the best of
                        it?”
                    “And so persuade people that all is well, when all is not well! That's
                        exactly what women always do and always have done, and plume themselves upon
                        it. And so this ridiculous farce is kept up, because these wretched women go
                        smiling about the world, hugging their stupid resignation to their hearts,
                        and pampering up their sickly virtue, at the expense of their sex. Hang
                        their virtue!”
                    Algitha laughed.
                    “It is somewhat self-regarding certainly, in spite of the
                        incessant renunciation and sacrifice.”
                    “Oh, self-sacrifice in a woman, is always her easiest course. It is the
                        nearest approach to luxury that society allows her,” cried Hadria,
                        irascibly.
                    “It is most refreshing to hear you exaggerate, once more, with the old
                        vigour,” her sister cried.
                    “If I have a foible, it is under-statement,” returned Hadria, with a
                        half-smile.
                    
                    “Then I think you haven't a foible,” said Algitha.
                    “That I am ready to admit; but seriously, women seem bent on proving that you
                        may treat them as you like, but they will ‘never desert Mr. Micawber.’”
                    Algitha smiled.
                    “They are so mortally afraid of getting off the line and doing what might not
                        be quite right. They take such a morbid interest in their own characters.
                        They are so particular about their souls. The female soul is such a delicate
                        creation—like a bonnet. Look at a woman trimming and poking at her
                        bonnet—that's exactly how she goes on with her soul.”
                    Algitha laughed and shrugged her shoulders.
                    “It has trained her in a sort of heroism, at any rate,” she said.
                    “Heroism! talk of Spartan boys, they are not in it! A woman will endure
                        martyrdom with the expression of a seraph,—an extremely aggravating seraph.
                        She looks after her soul as if it were the ultimate fact of the universe.
                        She will trim and preen that ridiculous soul, though the heavens fall and
                        the rest of her sex perish.”
                    “Come now, I think there are exceptions.”
                    “A few, but very few. It is a point of honour, a sacred canon. Women will go
                        on patiently drawing water in sieves, and pretend they are usefully employed
                        because it tires them!”
                    “They believe it,” said Algitha.
                    “Perhaps so. But it's very silly.”
                    “It is really well meant. It is a submission to the supposed will of
                        heaven.”
                    “A poor compliment to Heaven!” Hadria exclaimed.
                    “Well, it is not, of course, your conception nor mine of the will of heaven,
                        but it is their's.”
                    Hadria shrugged her shoulders. “I wish women would think a little less of
                        Heaven in the abstract, and a little more of one another, in the
                        concrete.”
                    “Nobody has ever taught them to think of one another; on the contrary, they
                        have always been trained to think of men,
                        and of Heaven, and their souls. That training accounts for their attitude
                        towards their own sex.”
                    “I suppose so. A spirit of sisterhood among women would have sadly upset the
                        social scheme, as it has been hitherto conceived. Indeed the social scheme
                        has made such a spirit well-nigh impossible.”
                    “A conquering race, if it is wise, governs its subjects largely through their
                        internecine squabbles and jealousies. But what if they
                        combine—?”
                    “Ah!” Hadria drew a deep sigh. “I wish the moment of sisterhood were a little
                        nearer.”
                    “Heaven hasten it!” cried Algitha.
                    “Perhaps it is nearer than we imagine. Women are quick learners, when they
                        begin. But, oh, it is hard sometimes to make them begin. They are so
                        annoyingly abject; so painfully diffident. It is their pride to be humble.
                        The virtuous worm won't even turn!”
                    “Poor worm! It sometimes permits itself the relief of verbal expression!”
                        observed Algitha.
                    Hadria laughed. “There are smiling, villainous worms, who deny themselves
                        even that!”
                    After a long silence, Algitha taking the poker in her hand and altering the
                        position of some of the coals, asked what Hadria meant to do in the future;
                        how she was going to “turn,” if that was her intention.
                    “Oh, I cannot even turn!” replied Hadria. “Necessity knows no law. The one
                        thing I won't do, is to be virtuously resigned. And I won't ‘make the best
                        of it.’”
                    Algitha laughed. “I am relieved to hear so wrong-headed a sentiment from you.
                        It sounds more like your old self.”
                    “I won't be called wrong-headed on this account,” said Hadria. “If my life is
                        to bear testimony to the truth, its refrain ought to be, ‘This is wrong,
                        this is futile, this is cruel, this is damnable.’ I shall warn every young
                        woman I come across, to beware, as she grows older, and has people in her clutches, not to express her affection by
                        making unlimited demands on the beloved objects. nor by turning the world
                        into a prison-house for those whom she honours with her devotion. The hope
                        of the future lies in the rising generation. You can't alter those who have
                        matured in the old ideas. It is for us to warn. I won't pretend
                        to think that things are all right, when I know they are not all right. That
                        would be mean. What is called making the best of it, would testify all the
                        wrong way. My life, instead of being a warning, would be a sort of a trap.
                        Let me at least play the humble role of scarcecrow. I am in excellent
                        condition for it,” she added, grasping her thin wrist.
                    Algitha shook her head anxiously.
                    “I fear,” she said, “that the moral that most people will draw will be:
                        ‘Follow in the path of Mrs. Gordon, however distasteful it may seem to you,
                        and whatever temptations you feel towards a more independent life. If you
                        don't, you will come to grief.’”
                    “Then you think it would be better to be ‘resigned,’ and look after one's own
                        soul?”
                    “Heaven knows what would be better!” Algitha exclaimed. “But one thing is
                        certain, you ought to look after your body, for the present at any
                        rate.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER L.
                    HADRIA had found the autumn saddening, and the winter tempt her to
                        morbid thoughts, but the coming of spring made her desperate. It would not
                        allow her to be passive, it would not permit her emotions to lie prone and
                        exhausted. Everything was waking, and she must wake too, to the bitterest
                        regret and the keenest longings of which she was capable.
                    She had tried to avoid everything that would arouse these futile emotions;
                        she had attempted to organise her life on new lines, persisting in her
                        attitude of non-surrender, but winning, as far as she was able, the rest
                        that, at present, could only be achieved by means of a sort of inward
                        apathy. It was an instinctive effort of self-preservation. She was like a
                        fierce fire, over which ashes have been heaped to keep down the flames, and
                        check its ardour. She had to eat her heart out in dullness, to avoid its
                        flaming out in madness. But the spring came and carried her away on its
                        torrent. She might as well have tried to resist an avalanche. She thought
                        that she had given up all serious thought of music; the surrender was
                        necessary, and she had judged it folly to tempt herself by further dallying
                        with it. It was too strong for her. And the despair that it awoke seemed to
                        break up her whole existence, and render her unfit for her daily task. But
                        now she found that, once more, she had underrated the strength of her own
                        impulses. For some time she resisted, but one day, the sun shone out strong
                        and genial, the budding trees spread their branches to the warm air, a
                        blackbird warbled ecstatically from among the Priory shrubberies, and Hadria
                        passed into the garden of the Griffins.
                    
                    The caretaker smiled, when she saw who stood on the doorstep.
                    “Why ma'am, I thought you was never coming again to play on the piano: I
                            have missed it, that I have. It makes the old place seem
                        that cheerful—I can almost fancy it's my poor young mistress come back
                        again. She used to sit and play on that piano, by the hour together.”
                    “I am glad you have enjoyed it,” said Hadria gently. The blinds were pulled
                        up in the drawing-room, the piano was uncovered, the windows thrown open to
                        the terrace.
                    “You haven't had much time for playing since your mamma has been ill,” the
                        woman continued, dusting the keys and setting up the music-rest.
                    “To-day my mother has a visitor; Mrs. Joseph Fleming is spending the
                        afternoon with her,” said Hadria.
                    “To be sure, ma'am, to be sure, a nice young lady, and so cheerful,” said the
                        good woman, bustling off to wind up the tall old clock with the wise-looking
                        face, that had been allowed to run down since Hadria's last visit. “Seems
                        more cheerful like,” observed the caretaker, as the steady tick-tack began
                        to sound through the quiet room.
                    “And have you fed my birds regularly, Mrs. Williams?” asked Hadria, taking
                        off her hat and standing at the open window looking out to the terrace.
                    “Yes indeed, ma'am, every day, just as you used to do when you came yourself.
                        And they has got so tame; they almost eats out of my hand.”
                    “And my robin? I hope he has not deserted us.”
                    “Oh, no, he comes right into the room sometimes and hops about, just as he
                        did that afternoon, the last time you was here! I think it's the same bird,
                        for he likes to perch on that table and pick up the crumbs.”
                    “Poor little soul! If you will give me a scrap of bread, Mrs. Williams—”
                    The caretaker left the room, and returned with a thick slice, which Hadria
                        crumbled and scattered on the window-sill, as she stepped out to the
                        terrace.
                    
                    The calm old mansion with its delicate outlines, its dreamy exquisite
                        stateliness, spoke of rest and sweet serenity. The place had the melancholy
                        but also the repose of greatness. It was rich in all that lies nearest to
                        the heart of that mysterious, dual-faced divinity that we call beauty,
                        compounded of sorrow and delight.
                    Ah! if only its owner could come and take up his abode here. If only he would
                        get well! Hadria's thoughts wandered backwards to that wonderful evening,
                        when she had played to him and Algitha, and they had all watched the sunset
                        afterwards, from the terrace. How long was it since she had touched the
                        piano in this old drawing-room? Never since she returned from Pari. Even her
                        own piano at home had been almost equally silent. She believed that she had
                        not only quite abandoned hope with regard to music, but that she had
                        prepared herself to face the inevitable decay of power, the inevitable
                        proofs of her loss, as time went on. But so far, she had only had proofs
                        that she could do astonishingly much if she had the chance.
                    To-day, for the first time, the final ordeal had to be gone through. And her
                        imagination had never conceived its horror. She was to be taken at her word.
                        The neglected gift was beginning to show signs of decay and enfeeblement. It
                        had given fair warning for many a year, by the persistent appeal that it
                        made, the persistent pain that it caused; but the famine had told upon it at
                        last. It was dying. As this fact insinuated itself into the consciousness,
                        in the teeth of a wild effort to deny it, despair flamed up, fierce and
                        violent. She regretted that she had not thrown up everything long ago,
                        rather than endure this lingering death; she cursed her hesitation, she
                        cursed her fate, her training, her circumstances, she cursed herself.
                        Whatever there was to curse, she cursed. What hideous nonsense to imagine
                        herself ready to face this last insult of fate! She was like a martyr, who
                        invites the stake and the faggot, and knows what he has undertaken only when
                        the flames begin to curl about his feet.
                        She had offered up her power, her imperious creative instinct, to the Lares
                        and Penates; those greedy little godlets whom there was no appeasing while
                        an inch of one remained that they could tear to pieces. She clenched her
                        hands, in agony. The whole being recoiled now, at the eleventh hour, as a
                        fierce wild creature that one tries to bury alive. She looked back along the
                        line of the past and saw, with too clear eyes, the whole insidious process,
                        so stealthy that she had hardly detected it, at the time. She remembered
                        those afternoons at the Priory, when the restless, ill-trained power would
                        assert itself, free for the moment, from the fetters and the dismemberment
                        that awaited it in ordinary life. But like a creature accustomed to the
                        yoke, she had found it increasingly difficult to use the moments of
                        opportunity when they came. The force of daily usage, the necessary bending
                        of thoughts in certain habitual directions, had assisted the crippling
                        process, and though the power still lay there, stiffer than of yore, yet the
                        preliminary movements and readjustments used up time and strength, and then
                        gradually, with the perpetual repetition of adverse habits, the whole
                        process became slower, harder, crueler.
                    “Good heavens! are all doors going to be shut against me?”
                    It was more than she could bear! And yet it must be borne—unless—no, there
                        was no “unless.” It was of no use to coquet with thoughts of suicide. She
                        had thought all that out long ago, and had sought, at more than one crisis
                        of desperate misery, for refuge from the horror and the insults of life. But
                        there were always others to be considered. She could not strike them so
                        terrible a blow. Retreat was ruthlessly cut off. Nothing remained but the
                        endurance of a conscious slow decay; nothing but increasing loss and
                        feebleness, as the surly years went by. They were going, going, these years
                        of life, slipping away with their spoils. Youth was departing, everything
                        was vanishing; her very self, bit by bit, slowly but surely, till the House
                        of Life would grow narrow and shrunken to
                        the sight, the roof descend. The gruesome old story of the imprisoned prince
                        flashed into her mind; the wretched captive, young and life-loving, who used
                        to wake up, each morning, to find that of the original seven windows of his
                        dungeon, one had disappeared, while the walls had advanced a foot, and
                        to-morrow yet another foot, till at length the last window had closed up,
                        and the walls shrank together and crushed him to death.
                    “I can't, I can't endure it!”
                    Hadria had leaned forward against the key-board, which gave forth a loud
                        crash of discordant notes, strangely expressive of the fall and failure of
                        her spirit.
                    She remained thus motionless, while the airs wandered in from the garden, and
                        a broad ray of sunlight showed the strange incessant gyrations of the dust
                        atoms, that happened to lie within the revealing brightness. The silence was
                        perfect.
                    Hadria raised her head at last, and her eyes wandered out to the sweet old
                        garden, decked in the miraculous hues of spring. The unutterable loveliness
                        brought, for a second, a strange, inconsequent sense of peace; it seemed
                        like a promise and a message from an unknown god.
                    But after that momentary and inexplicable experience, the babble of thought
                        went on as before. The old dream mounted again heavenwards, like a cloud at
                        sunset; wild fancies fashioned themselves in the brain. And then, in
                        fantastic images, Hadria seemed to see a panorama of her own life and the
                        general life pass before her, in all their incongruity and confusion. The
                        great mass of that life showed itself as prose, because the significance of
                        things had not been grasped or suspected; but here and there, the veil was
                        pierced—by some suffering soul, by some poet's vision—and the darkness of
                        our daily, pompous, careworn, ridiculous little existence made painfully
                        visible.
                    “It is all absurd, all futile!” (so moved the procession of the thoughts);
                        “and meanwhile the steady pulse of life
                        beats on, not pausing while we battle out our days, not waiting while we
                        decide how we shall live. We are possessed by a sentiment, an ideal, a
                        religion; old Time makes no comment, but moves quietly on; we fling the
                        thing aside as tawdry, insufficient; the ideal is tarnished, experience of
                        the world converts us—and still unmoved, he paces on. We are off on another
                        chase; another conception of things possesses us; and still the beat of his
                        footstep sounds in our ears, above the tumult. We think and aspire and
                        dream, and meanwhile the fires grow cold upon the hearth, the daily cares
                        and common needs plead eloquently for our undivided service; the stupendous
                        movement of Existence goes on unceasingly, at our doors; thousands
                        struggling for gold and fame and mere bread, and resorting to infamous
                        devices to obtain them; the great commercial currents flow and flow,
                        according to their mystic laws; the price of stocks goes up, goes down, and
                        with them, the life and fate of thousands; the inconsequent bells ring out
                        from Craddock Church, and the people congregate; the grave of the
                        schoolmistress sleeps in the sunshine, and the sound of the bells streams
                        over it—meaning no irony—to lose itself in the quiet of the hills; rust and
                        dust collect in one's house, in one's soul; and this and that, and that and
                        this,—like the pendulum of the old time-piece, with its solemn tick—dock the
                        moments of one's life, with each its dull little claim and its tough little
                        tether, and lead one decorously to the gateway of Eternity.”
                    There was a flutter of wings, in the room. A robin hopped in at the window
                        and perched daintily on the table-ledge, its delicate claws outlined against
                        the whiteness of the dust-sheet, its head inquisitively on one side, as if
                        it were asking the reason of the musician's unusual silence. Suddenly, the
                        little creature fluffed out its feathers, drew itself together, and warbled
                        forth a rich ecstatic song, that seemed to be deliberately addressed to its
                        human companion. Hadria raised her bowed head. Up welled the swift
                        unaccustomed tears, while the robin, with increasing enthusiasm,
                            continued his song. His theme,
                        doubtless, was of the flicker of sun-lit shrubberies, the warmth of summer,
                        the glory of spring, the sweetness of the revolving seasons. For cure of
                        heartache, he suggested the pleasantness of garden nooks, and the repose
                        that lingers about a dew-sprinkled lawn. All these things were warmly
                        commended to the human being whose song of life had ceased.
                    “But they break my heart, little singer, they break my heart!”
                    The robin lifted up its head and warbled more rapturously than ever.
                    The tears were falling fast know, and silently. The thoughts ran on and on.
                        “I know it all, I know it all, and my heart is broken—and it is my own
                        fault—and it does not matter—the world is full of broken hearts—and it does
                        not matter, it does not matter. But, oh, if the pain might stop, if the pain
                        might stop! The robin sings now, because the spring is here; but it is not
                        always spring. And some day—perhaps not this winter, but some day—the dear
                        little brown body will agonize—it will die alone, in the horrible great
                        universe; one thinks little of a robin, but it agonizes all the same when
                        its time comes; it agonizes all the same.”
                    The thoughts were drowned, for a moment, in a flood of terrible, unbearable
                        pity for all the sorrow of the world. The robin seemed to think that he had
                        a mission to cheer his companion, for he warbled merrily on. And beside him,
                        the dust-motes danced the wildest of dances, in the shaft of sunshine.
                    “It is very lovely, it is very lovely—the world is a miracle, but it is all
                        like a taunt, it is like an insult, this glory of the world. I am born a
                        woman, and to be born a woman is to be exquisitely sensitive to insult and
                        to live under it always, always. I wish that I were as marble to the magic
                        of Life, I wish that I cared for nothing and felt nothing. I pray only that
                        the dream and the longing may be killed, and killed quickly!”
                    
                    In the silence, the bird's note sounded clear and tender. The dance of the
                        dust-motes, like the great dance of Life itself, went on without
                        ceasing.
                    The robin seemed to insist on a brighter view of things. He urged his
                        companion to take comfort. Had the spring not come?
                    “But you do not understand, you do not understand, little soul that sings—the
                        spring is torturing me and taunting me. If only it would kill me!”
                    The robin fluffed out his feathers, and began again to impart his sweet
                        philosophy. Hadria was shedding the first unchecked tears that she had shed
                        since her earliest childhood. And then, for the second time to-day, that
                        strange unexplained peace stole into her heart. Reason came quickly and
                        drove it away with a sneer, and the horror and the darkness closed round
                        again.
                    “If I might only die, if I might only die!”
                    But the little bird sang on.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LI.
                    “QUITE hopeless!”
                    Joseph Fleming repeated the words incredulously.
                    “Yes,” said Lady Engleton, “it is the terrible truth.”
                    The Professor had been growing worse, and at length, his state became so
                        alarming that he decided to return to England. Miss Du Prel and an old
                        friend whom she had met abroad, accompanied him.
                    “I understand they are all at the Priory,” said Joseph.
                    “Yes; Miss Du Prel telegraphed to Mrs. Temperley, and Mrs. Temperley and I
                        put our heads together and arranged matters as well as we could in the
                        emergency, so that the Professor's wish might be gratified. He desired to
                        return to the Priory, where his boyhood was spent.”
                    “And is there really no hope?”
                    “None at all, the doctor says.”
                    “Dear me, dear me!” cried Joseph. “And is he not expected to live through the
                        summer?”
                    “The summer! ah no, Mr. Fleming, he is not expected to live many days.”
                    “Dear me, dear me!” was all that Joseph could say. Then after a pause, he
                        added, “I fear Mrs. Temperley will feel it very much. They were such old
                        friends.”
                    “Oh! poor woman, she is heart-broken.”
                    
                    The Professor lingered longer than the doctor had expected. He was very weak,
                        and could not bear the fatigue of seeing many people. But he was perfectly
                        cheerful, and when feeling little better
                        at times, he would laugh and joke in his old kindly way, and seemed to enjoy
                        the fragment of life that still remained to him.
                    “I am so glad I have seen the spring again,” he said, “and hat I am here, in
                        the old home.”
                    He liked to have the window thrown wide open, when the day was warm. Then his
                        bed would be wheeled closer to it, so that the sunshine often lay across it,
                        and the scent of the flowering shrubs and the odour of growth, as he called
                        it, floated in upon him. He looked out into a world of exquisite greenery
                        and of serene sky. The room was above the drawing-room, and if the
                        drawing-room windows were open, he could hear Hadria playing. He often used
                        to ask for music.
                    The request would come generally after an exhausting turn of pain, when he
                        could not bear the fatigue of seeing people.
                    “I can't tell you what pleasure and comfort your music is to me,” he used to
                        say, again and again. “It has been so ever since I knew you. When I think of
                        the thousands of poor devils who have to end their lives in some wretched,
                        lonely, sordid fashion, after hardships and struggles and very little hope,
                        I can't help feeling that I am fortunate indeed, now and all through my
                        life. I have grumbled at times, and there have been sharp experiences—few
                        escape those—but take it all round, I have had my share of good things.”
                    He had one great satisfaction: that he had discovered, before the end of his
                        days, the means which he had so long been seeking, of saving the death-agony
                        of animals that are killed for food. Some day perhaps, he said, men might
                        cease to be numbered among the beasts of prey, but till then, at least their
                        victims might be spared as much pain as possible. He had overcome the
                        difficulty of expense, which had always been the main obstacle to a
                        practical solution of the problem. Henceforth there was no need for any
                        creature to suffer, in dying for man's use. If people only knew and realized
                        how much needless agony is inflicted on these helpless creatures, in order
                        to supply the daily demands of a vast flesh-eating population, they would feel that, as a matter of
                        fact, he had been doing the human race a good turn as well as their more
                        friendless fellow-beings. It was impossible to imagine that men and women
                        would not suffer at the thought of causing suffering to the helpless, if
                        once they realized that suffering clearly. Men and women were not devils!
                        Theobald had always laughed at him for this part of his work, but he felt
                        now, at the close of his life, that he could dwell upon that effort with
                        more pleasure than on any other, although others had won him far more
                        applause, and this had often brought him contempt. If only he could be sure
                        that the discovery would not be wasted.
                    “It shall be our business to see that it is not,” said Valeria, in a voice
                        tremulous with unshed tears.
                    The Professor heaved a sigh of relief, at this assurance.
                    “My earlier work is safe; what I have done in other directions, is already a
                        part of human knowledge and resource, but this is just the sort of thing
                        that might be so easily lost and forgotten. These sufferings are hidden, and
                        when people do not see a wrong, they do not think of it; make them think,
                        make them think!”
                    A week had gone by since the Professor's arrival at the Priory. He was in
                        great pain, but had intervals of respite. He liked, in those intervals, to
                        see his friends. They could scarcely believe that he was dying, for he still
                        seemed so full of interest in the affairs of life, and spoke of the future
                        as if he would be there to see it. One of the most distressing interviews
                        was with Mr. Fullerton, who could not be persuaded that the invalid had but
                        a short time to live. The old man believed that death meant, beyond all
                        question, annihilation of the personality, and had absolutely no hope of
                        meeting again.
                    “Don't be too sure, old friend,” said the Professor; “don't be too sure of
                        anything, in this mysterious universe.”
                    The weather kept warm and genial, and this was favourable to his lingering
                        among them a little longer. But his suffering, at times, was so great that they could scarcely
                        wish for this delay. Hadria used always to play to him during some part of
                        the afternoon. The robin had become a constant visitor, and had found its
                        way to the window of the sick-room, where crumbs had been scattered on the
                        sill. The Professor took great pleasure in watching the little creature.
                        Sometimes it would come into the room and hop on to a chair or table,
                        coquetting from perch to perch, and looking at the invalid, with bright
                        inquisitive eyes. The crumbs were put out at a certain hour each morning,
                        and the bird had acquired the habit of arriving almost to the moment. If, by
                        chance, the crumbs had been forgotten, the robin would flutter
                        ostentatiously before the window, to remind his friends of their neglected
                        duty.
                    During the last few days, Hadria had fancied that the Professor had divined
                        Valeria's secret, or that she had betrayed it.
                    There was a peculiar, reverent tenderness in his manner towards her, that was
                        even more marked than usual.
                    “Can't we save him? can't we save him, Hadria?” she used to cry piteously,
                        when they were alone. “Surely, surely there is some hope. Science makes such
                        professions; why doesn't it do something?”
                    “Ah, don't torture yourself with false hope, dear Valeria.”
                    “The world is monstrous, life is unbearable,” exclaimed Valeria, with a
                        despairing break in her voice.
                    But one afternoon, she came out of the sick-room with a less distraught
                        expression on her worn face, though her eyes shewed traces of tears.
                    The dying man used to speak often about his wife to Hadria. This had been her
                        room, and he almost fancied her presence about him.
                    “Do you know,” he said, “I have found, of late, that many of my old fixed
                        ideas have been insidiously modifying. So many things that I used to regard
                        as preposterous have been borne in upon me, in a singular fashion, as by no
                        means so out of the question. I have had
                        one or two strange experiences and now a hope—I might say a faith—has
                        settled upon me of an undying element in our personality. I feel that we
                        shall meet again those we have loved here—some time or another.”
                    “What a sting that would take from the agony of parting,” cried Hadria.
                    “And, after all, is it less rational to suppose that there is some survival
                        of the Self, and that the wild, confused earthly experience is an element of
                        a spiritual evolutionary process, than to suppose that the whole universe is
                        chaotic and meaningless? For what we call mind exists, and it must be
                        contained in the sum-total of existence, or how could it arise out of it?
                        Therefore, some reasonable scheme appears more likely than a reasonless one.
                        And then there is that other big fact that stares us in the face and puts
                        one's fears to shame: human goodness.”
                    Hadria's rebellious memory recalled the fact of human cruelty and wickedness
                        to set against the goodness, but she was silent.
                    “What earthly business has such a thing as goodness or pity to appear in a
                        fortuitous, mindless, soulless universe? Where does it come from? What is
                        its origin? Whence sprang the laws that gave it birth?”
                    “It gives more argument to faith than any thing I know,” she said, “even if
                        there had been but one good man or woman since the world began.”
                    “Ah, yes; the pity and tenderness that lie in the heart of man, even of the
                        worst, if only they can be appealed to before they die, may teach us to hope
                        all things.”
                    There was a long silence. Through the open window, they could hear the soft
                        cooing of the wood-pigeons. Among the big trees behind the house, there was
                        a populous rookery, noisy now with the squeaky voices of the young birds,
                        and the deeper cawing of the parent rooks.
                    “I have been for many years without one gleam of hope,” said the Professor slowly. “It is only lately
                        that some of my obstinate preconceptions have begun to yield to other
                        suggestions and other thoughts, which have opened up a thousand
                        possibilities and a thousand hopes. And I have not been false to my reason
                        in this change; I have but followed it more fearlessly and more
                        faithfully.”
                    “I have sometimes thought,” said Hadria, “that when we seem to cling most
                        desperately to our reason, we are really refusing to accept its guidance
                        into unfamiliar regions. We confuse the familiar with the reasonable.”
                    “Exactly. And I want you to be on your guard against that intellectual
                        foible, which I believe has held me back in a region of sadness and solitude
                        that I need not have lingered in, but for that.”
                    There was a great commotion in the rookery, and presently a flock of rooks
                        swept across the window, in loud controversy, and away over the garden in a
                        circle, and then up and up till they were a grey little patch of changing
                        shape, in the blue of the sky.
                    The dying man followed them with his eyes. He had watched such streaming
                        companies start forth from the old rookery, ever since his boyhood. The
                        memories of that time, and of the importunate thoughts that had haunted him
                        then, at the opening of life, returned to him now.
                    He had accomplished a fraction of what he had set out to attempt, with such
                        high hopes. His dream of personal happiness had failed; many an illusion had
                        been lost, many a bitterly-regretted deed had saddened him, many an error
                        had revenged itself upon him. He drew a deep sigh.
                    “And if the scheme of the universe be a reasonable one,” he said half
                        dreamily, “then one can account better for the lives that never fulfil
                        themselves; the apparent failure that saddens one, in such numberless
                        instances, especially among women. For in that case, the failure is only
                        apparent, however cruel and however great. If the effort has been sincere,
                        and the thought bent upon the best that could be conceived by the particular soul, then that effort and that
                        thought must play their part in the upward movement of the race. I cannot
                        believe otherwise.”
                    Hadria's head was bent. Her lips moved, as if in an effort to speak, but no
                        sound came.
                    “To believe that all the better and more generous hopes of our kind are to be
                        lost and ineffectual, that genius is finally wasted, and goodness an exotic
                        to be trampled under foot in the blind movements of Nature—that requires
                        more power of faith than I can muster. Once believe that thought is the main
                        factor, the motive force of the universe, then everything settles into its
                        place, and we have room for hope; indeed it insists upon admission; it falls
                        into the shadow of our life like that blessed ray of sunlight.”
                    It lay across the bed, in a bright streak.
                    “The hope leads me far. My training has been all against it, but it comes to
                        me with greater and greater force. It makes me feel that presently, when we
                        have bid one another farewell, it will not be for ever. We shall meet again,
                        dear Hadria, believe me.” She was struggling with her tears, and could
                        answer nothing.
                    “I wish so much that I could leave this hope, as a legacy to you. I wish I
                        could leave it to Valeria. Take care of her, won't you? She is very solitary
                        and very sad.”
                    “I will, I will,” Hadria murmured.
                    “Do not turn away from the light of rational hope, if any path should open up
                        that leads that way. And help her to do the same. When you think of me, let
                        it be happily and with comfort.”
                    Hadria was silently weeping.
                    “And hold fast to your own colours. Don't take sides, above all, with the
                        powers that have oppressed you. They are terrible powers, and yet people
                        won't admit their strength, and so they are left unopposed. It is worse than
                        folly to underrate the forces of the enemy. It is always worse than folly to
                        deny facts in order to support a theory. Exhort people to face and conquer them. You can help more than
                        you dream, even as things stand. I cannot tell you what you have done for
                        me, dear Hadria.” (He held out his hand to her.) “And the helpless, human
                        and animal—how they wring one's heart! Do not forget them; be to them a
                        knight-errant. You have suffered enough yourself, to know well how to bind
                        their wounds.” The speaker paused, for a moment, to battle with a paroxysm
                        of pain.
                    “There is so much anguish,” he said presently, “so much intolerable anguish,
                        even when things seem smoothest. The human spirit craves for so much, and
                        generally it gets so little. The world is full of tragedy; and sympathy, a
                        little common sympathy, can do so much to soften the worst of grief. It is
                        for the lack of that, that people despair and go down. I commend them to
                        you.”
                    
                    The figure lay motionless, as if asleep. The expression was one of utter
                        peace. It seemed as if all the love and tenderness, all the breadth and
                        beauty of the soul that had passed away, were shining out of the quieted
                        face, from which all trace of suffering had vanished. The look of desolation
                        that used, at times, to come into it, had entirely gone. Hadria and Valeria
                        stood together, by the bedside. At the foot of the bed was a glass vase,
                        holding a spray of wild cherry blossom; Hadria had brought it, to the
                        invalid's delight, the day before. There were other offerings of fresh
                        flowers; a mass of azaleas from Lady Engleton; bunches of daffodils that
                        Valeria had gathered in the meadows; and old Dodge had sent a handful of
                        brown and yellow wallflower, from his garden. The blind had been raised a
                        few inches, so as to let in the sunlight and the sweet air. It was a
                        glorious morning. The few last hot days had brought everything out, with a
                        rush. The boughs of the trees, that the Professor had loved so to watch
                        during his illness, were swaying gently in the breeze, just as they had done
                        when his eyes had been open to see them.
                        The wood-pigeons were cooing, the young rooks cawing shrilly in the rookery.
                        Valeria seemed to be stunned. She stood gazing at the peaceful face, with a
                        look of stony grief.
                    “I can't understand it!” she exclaimed at last, with a wild gesture, “I
                            can't believe he will never speak to me again! It's a
                        horrible dream—oh, but too horrible—ah, why can't I die as well as he?” She
                        threw herself on her knees, shaken with sobs, silent and passionate. Hadria
                        did not attempt to remonstrate or soothe her. She turned away, as a flood of
                        bitter grief swept over her, so that she felt as one drowning.
                    Some minutes passed before Valeria rose from her knees, looking haggard and
                        desolate. Hadria went towards her hastily.
                    “What's that?” cried Valeria with a nervous start and a scared glance towards
                        the window.
                    “The robin!” said Hadria, and the tears started to her eyes.
                    The bird had hopped in at his usual hour, in a friendly fashion. He picked up
                        a few stray crumbs that had been left on the sill from yesterday, and then,
                        in little capricious flights from stage to stage, finally arrived at the
                        rail of the bed, and stood looking from side to side, with black, bright
                        eyes, at the motionless figure. Hitherto it had been accustomed to a
                        welcome. Why this strange silence? The robin hopped round on the rail,
                        polished his beak meditatively, fluffed out his feathers, and then, raising
                        his head, sang a tender requiem.
                
            
            THE END.
        
    
