
     ----CITATION----
        Corelli, Marie (1855-1924). The Soul of Lilith, Volume 2. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 328 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (12-March-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7164
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE SOUL OF LILITH 
                
                BY MARIE CORELLI AUTHOR OF 'ARDATH,' 'A ROMANCE OF
                    TWO WORLDS,' 'THELMA,' 'VENDETTA!' ETC.
                
                    
                        
                            'Not a drop of her blood was human,
                            But she was made like a soft sweet woman'
                        
                        DANTE G. ROSSETTI
                    
                
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. II.
                SECOND EDITION
                
                    LONDON 
                    RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the
                        Queen
                
                1892
                [All rights reserved]
            
        
        
            
            
            THE SOUL OF LILITH
            
                CHAPTER I.
                INTO the beautiful room, glowing with its regal hues
                    of gold and purple, where the spell-bound Lilith lay, El-Râmi led his thoughtful
                    and seemingly reluctant guest. Zaroba met them on the threshold and was about to
                    speak,—but at an imperative sign from her master she refrained, and contented
                    herself merely with a searching and inquisitive glance at the stately monk, the
                    like of whom she had never seen before. She had good cause to be surprised,—for
                    in all the time she had known him, El-Râmi had never permitted any visitor to
                    enter the shrine of  Lilith's rest. Now he had
                    made a new departure,—and in the eagerness of her desire to know why this
                    stranger was thus freely admitted into the usually forbidden precincts, she went
                    her way downstairs to seek Féraz, and learn from him the explanation of what
                    seemed so mysterious. But it was now past ten o'clock at night, and Féraz was
                    asleep,—fast locked in such a slumber that though Zaroba shook him and called
                    him several times, she could not rouse him from his deep and almost death-like
                    torpor. Baffled in her attempt, she gave it up at last, and descended to the
                    kitchen to prepare her own frugal supper,—resolving, however, that as soon as
                    she heard Féraz stirring she would put him through such a catechism, that she
                    would find out, in spite of El-Râmi's haughty reticence, the name of the unknown
                    visitor and the nature of his errand.
                Meanwhile, El-Râmi himself and his grave companion stood by the couch of Lilith,
                    and looked upon her in all her peaceful beauty for some minutes in silence.
                    Presently El-Râmi grew impatient at the absolute impassiveness of the monk's
                    attitude and the strange look  in his eyes—a
                    look which expressed nothing but solemn compassion and reverence.
                "'Well!"' he exclaimed almost brusquely—"'Now you see Lilith, as she is."'
                "'Not so!"' said the monk quietly—"'I do not see her as she is. But I
                        have seen her,—whereas, ... you have not!"'
                El-Râmi turned upon him somewhat angrily.
                "'Why will you always speak in riddles?"' he said—"'In plain language, what do
                    you mean?"'
                "'In plain language I mean what I say"'—returned the monk composedly—"'And I tell
                    you I have seen Lilith. The Soul of Lilith is Lilith;—not this
                    brittle casket made of earthy materials which we now look upon, and which is
                    preserved from decomposition by an electric fluid. But—beautiful as it is—it is
                    a corpse—and nothing more."'
                El-Râmi regarded him with an expression of haughty amazement.
                "'Can a corpse breathe?"' he inquired—"'Can a corpse have colour and movement?
                    This Body was the body of a child when first I began my experiment,—now it is a
                    woman's  form full-grown and perfect—and you
                    tell me it is a corpse!"'
                "'I tell you no more than you told Féraz,"' said the monk coldly—"'When the boy
                    trespassed your command and yielded to the suggestion of your servant Zaroba,
                    did you not assure him that Lilith was dead?"''
                El-Râmi started;—these words certainly gave him a violent shock of amazement.
                "'God!"' he exclaimed—"'How can you know all this?—Where did you hear it? Does
                    the very air convey messages to you from a distance?—Does the light copy scenes
                    for you, or what is it that gives you such a superhuman faculty for knowing
                    everything you choose to know?"'
                The monk smiled gravely.
                "'I have only one method of work, El-Râmi"'—he said—"'And that method you are
                    perfectly aware of, though you would not adopt it when I would have led you into
                    its mystery. 'No man cometh to the Father, but by Me.' You know that old
                    well-worn text—read so often, heard so often, that its true meaning is utterly
                    lost sight of and forgotten. 'Coming to the Father' means the  attainment of a superhuman intuition—a superhuman
                    knowledge,—but as you do not believe in these things, let them pass. But you
                    were perfectly right when you told Féraz that this Lilith is dead;—of course she
                    is dead,—dead as a plant that is dried but has its colour preserved, and is made
                    to move its leaves by artificial means. This body's breath is artificial,—the
                    liquid in its veins is not blood, but a careful compound of the electric fluid
                    that generates all life,—and it might be possible to preserve it thus forever.
                    Whether its growth would continue is a scientific question; it might and it
                    might not,—probably it would cease if the Soul held no more communication with
                    it. For its growth, which you consider so remarkable, is simply the result of a
                    movement of the brain;—when you force back the Spirit to converse through its
                    medium, the brain receives an impetus, which it communicates to the spine and
                    nerves,—the growth and extension of the muscles is bound to follow.
                    Nevertheless, it is really a chemically animated corpse; it is not Lilith.
                    Lilith herself I know."'
                "'Lilith herself you know!"' echoed El-  Râmi,
                    stupefied—"'You know ...! What is it that you would imply?"'
                "'I know Lilith"'—said the monk steadily, "'as you have never known her. I have
                    seen her as you have never seen her. She is a lonely creature,—a wandering
                    angel, for ever waiting,—for ever hoping. Unloved, save by the Highest Love, she
                    wends her flight from star to star, from world to world,—a spirit beautiful, but
                    incomplete as a flower without its stem,—a bird without its mate. But her
                    destiny is changing,—she will not be alone for long,—the hours ripen to their
                    best fulfilment,—and Love, the crown and completion of her being, will unbind
                    her chains and send her soaring to the Highest Joy in the glorious liberty of
                    the free!"'
                While he spoke thus, softly, yet with eloquence and passion, a dark flush crept
                    over El-Râmi's face,—his eyes glittered and his hand trembled—he seemed to be
                    making some fierce inward resolve. He controlled himself, however, and asked
                    with a studied indifference—
                "'Is this your prophecy?"'
                "'It is not a prophecy; it is a truth;"'  replied
                    the monk gently—"'If you doubt me, why not ask Her? She is here."'
                "'Here?"' El-Râmi looked about vaguely, first at the speaker, then at the couch
                    where the so-called "'corpse"' lay breathing tranquilly—"'Here, did you say?
                    Naturally,—of course she is here."'
                And his glance reverted again to Lilith's slumbering form.
                "'No—not here—"' said the monk with a gesture towards the
                        couch—"'but—there!"'
                And he pointed to the centre of the room where the lamp shed a mellow golden
                    lustre, on the pansy-embroidered carpet, and where from the tall crystal vase of
                    Venice ware, a fresh, branching cluster of pale roses exhaled their delicious
                    perfume. El-Râmi stared, but could see nothing,—nothing save the lamp-light and
                    the nodding flowers.
                "'There?"' he repeated bewildered—"'Where?"'
                "'Alas for you, that you cannot see her!"' said the monk compassionately. "'This
                    blindness of your sight proves that for you the veil has not yet been withdrawn.
                    Lilith is there, I tell you;—she stands close to  those roses,—her white form radiates like lightning—her hair is like the
                    glory of the sunshine on amber,—her eyes are bent upon the flowers, which are
                    fully conscious of her shining presence. For flowers are aware of angels'
                    visits, when men see nothing! Round her and above her are the trailing films of
                    light caught from the farthest stars,—she is alone as usual,—her looks are
                    wistful and appealing,—will you not speak to her?"'
                El-Râmi's surprise, vexation and fear were beyond all words as he heard this
                    description,—then he became scornful and incredulous.
                "'Speak to her!"' he repeated—"'Nay—if you see her as plainly as you say—let
                        her speak!"'
                "'You will not understand her speech—"' said the monk—"'Not unless it be conveyed
                    to you in earthly words through that earthly medium there—"' and he pointed to
                    the fair form on the couch—"'But, otherwise you will not know what she is
                    saying. Nevertheless—if you wish it,—she shall speak."'
                "'I wish nothing—"' said El-Râmi quickly and haughtily—"'If you imagine you see
                    her,—and if you can command this creature of 
                    your imagination to speak, why do so; but Lilith as I know her,
                    speaks to none save me."'
                The monk lifted his hands with a solemn movement as of prayer—
                "'Soul of Lilith!"' he said entreatingly—"'Angel-wanderer in the spheres beloved
                    of God—if, by the Master's grace I have seen the vision clearly—speak!"'
                Silence followed. El-Râmi fixed his eyes on Lilith's visible recumbent form,—no
                    voice could make reply, he thought, save that which must issue from those lovely
                    lips curved close in placid slumber,—but the monk's gaze was fastened in quite
                    an opposite direction. All at once a strain of music, soft as a song played on
                    the water by moonlight, rippled through the room. With mellow richness the
                    cadence rose and fell,—it had a marvellous sweet sound, rhythmical and
                    suggestive of words,—unimaginable words, fairies' language,—anything that was
                    removed from mortal speech, but that was all the same capable of utterance.
                    El-Râmi listened perplexed;—he had never heard anything so convincingly, almost
                    painfully sweet,—till suddenly it ceased as it had  begun, abruptly, and the monk looked round at
                    him.
                "'You heard her?"' he inquired—"'Did you understand?"'
                "'Understand what?"' asked El-Râmi impatiently—"'I heard music—nothing
                    more."'
                The monk's eyes rested upon him in grave compassion.
                "'Your spiritual perception does not go far, El-Râmi Zarânos—"' he said
                    gently—"'Lilith spoke;—her voice was the music."'
                El-Râmi trembled;—for once his strong nerves were somewhat shaken. The man beside
                    him was one whom he knew to be absolutely truthful, unselfishly wise,—one who
                    scorned "'trickery"' and who had no motive for deceiving him,—one also who was
                    known to possess a strange and marvellous familiarity with "'things unproved and
                    unseen."' In spite of his sceptical nature, all he dared assume against his
                    guest, was that he was endowed with a perfervid imagination which persuaded him
                    of the existence of what were really only the "'airy nothings"' of his brain.
                    The irreproachable grandeur, purity and simplicity of the monk's life as  known among his brethren, were of an ideal
                    perfection never before attempted or attained by man,—and as he met the steady,
                    piercing faithful look of his companion's eyes,—clear fine eyes
                    such as, reverently speaking, one might have imagined the Christ to have had
                    when in the guise of humanity He looked love on all the world,—El-Râmi was
                    fairly at a loss for words. Presently he recovered himself sufficiently to
                    speak, though his accents were hoarse and tremulous.
                "'I will not doubt you;—"' he said slowly—"'But if the Soul of Lilith is here
                    present as you say,—and if it spoke, surely I may know the purport of its
                    language!"'
                "'Surely you may!"' replied the monk—"'Ask her in your own way to repeat what she
                    said just now. There—"' and he smiled gravely as he pointed to the couch—"'there
                    is your human phonograph!"'
                Perplexed, but willing to solve the mystery, El-Râmi bent above the slumbering
                    girl, and taking her hands in his own, called her by name in his usual manner.
                    The reply came soon—though somewhat faintly.
                "'I am here!"'
                
                "'How long have you been here?"' asked El-Râmi.
                "'Since my friend came."'
                "'Who is that friend, Lilith?"'
                "'One that is near you now—"' was the response.
                "'Did you speak to this friend a while ago?"'
                "'Yes!"'
                The answer was more like a sigh than an assent.
                "'Can you repeat what you said?"'
                Lilith stretched her fair arms out with a gesture of weariness.
                "'I said I was tired—"' she murmured—"'Tired of the search through Infinity for
                    things that are not. A wayward Will bids me look for Evil—I search, but cannot
                    find it;—for Hell, a place of pain and torment,—up and down, around and around
                    the everlasting circles I wend my way, and can discover no such abode of misery.
                    Then I bring back the messages of truth,—but they are rejected, and I am
                    sorrowful. All the realms of God are bright with beauty save this one dark
                    prison of Man's Fantastic Dream. Why am I bound here? I long  to reach the light!—I am tired of the darkness!"' She
                    paused—then added—"'This is what I said to one who is my friend."'
                Vaguely pained, and stricken with a sudden remorse, El-Râmi asked:
                "'Am not I your friend, Lilith?"'
                A shudder ran through her delicate limbs. Then the answer came distinctly, yet
                    reluctantly:
                "'No!"'
                El-Râmi dropped her hands as though he had been stung;—his face was very pale.
                    The monk touched him on the shoulder.
                "'Why are you so moved?"' he asked—"'A spirit cannot lie;—an angel cannot
                    flatter. How should she call you friend?—you, who detain her here solely for
                    your own interested purposes?—To you she is a 'subject' merely,—no more than the
                    butterfly dissected by the naturalist. The butterfly has hopes, ambitions,
                    loves, delights, innocent wishes, nay even a religion,—what are all these to the
                    grim spectacled scientist who breaks its delicate wings? The Soul of Lilith,
                    like a climbing flower, strains instinctively upward,—but you—(for a certain
                    time  only) according to the natural magnetic
                    laws which compel the stronger to subdue the weaker, have been able to keep
                    this, her ethereal Essence, a partial captive under your tyrannical dominance.
                    Yes—I say 'tyrannical,'—great wisdom should inspire love,—but in you it only
                    inspires despotism. Yet with all your skill and calculation you have strangely
                    overlooked one inevitable result of your great Experiment."'
                El-Râmi looked up inquiringly but said nothing.
                "'How it is that you have not foreseen this thing I cannot imagine"'—continued
                    the monk—"'The body of Lilith has grown under your very eyes from the child to
                    the woman by the merest material means,—the chemicals which Nature gives us, and
                    the forces which Nature allows us to employ. How then should you deem it
                    possible for the Soul to remain stationary? With every fresh experience its form
                    expands—its desires increase,—its knowledge widens,—and the everlasting
                    Necessity of Love compels its life to Love's primeval Source. The Soul of Lilith
                    is awakening to its fullest immortal 
                    consciousness,—she realizes her connection with the great angelic worlds—her
                    kindredship with those worlds' inhabitants, and as she gains this glorious
                    knowledge more certainly, so she gains strength. And this is the result I warn
                    you of—her force will soon baffle yours, and you will have no more influence
                    over her than you have over the highest Archangel in the realms of the Supreme
                    Creator."'
                "'A woman's Soul!—only a woman's soul, remember that!"' said El-Râmi
                    dreamily—"'How should it baffle mine? Of slighter character—of more sensitive
                    balance—and always prone to yield,—how should it prove so strong? Though, of
                    course, you will tell me that Souls, like Angels, are sexless."'
                "'I will tell you nothing of the sort"'—said the monk quietly. "'Because it would
                    not be true. All created things have Sex, even the Angels. 'Male and Female
                    created He them'—recollect that,—when it is said God made Man in 'His Own
                    Image.'"'
                El-Râmi's eyes opened wide in astonishment.
                
                "'What! Is it possible you would endow God Himself with the Feminine attributes
                    as well as the Masculine?"'
                "'There are Two Governing Forces of the Universe,"' replied the monk
                    deliberately—"'One, the masculine, is Love,—the other, feminine, is Beauty.
                    These Two, reigning together, are GOD;—just as man and wife are One. From Love
                    and Beauty proceed Law and Order. You cannot away with it—it is so. Love and
                    Beauty produce and reproduce a million forms with more than a million
                    variations—and when God made Man in His Own Image, it was as Male and Female.
                    From the very first growths of life in all worlds,—from the small, almost
                    imperceptible beginning of that marvellous Evolution which resulted in
                    Humanity,—evolution which to us is calculated to have taken thousands of years,
                    whereas in the Eternal countings it has occupied but a few moments, Sex was
                    proclaimed in the lowliest sea-plants, of which the only remains we have are in
                    the Silurian formations,—and was equally maintained in the humblest lingula inhabiting its simple bivalve shell. Sex is
                    proclaimed  throughout the Universe with an
                    absolute and unswerving regularity through all grades of nature. Nay, there are
                    even Male and Female Atmospheres which when combined produce forms of
                    life."'
                "'You go far,—I should say much too far in your supposed Law!"' said El-Râmi
                    wonderingly and a little derisively.
                "'And you, my good friend, stop short,—and oppose yourself against all Law, when
                    it threatens to interfere with your work"'—retorted the monk—"'The proof is,
                    that you are convinced you can keep the Soul of Lilith to wait upon your will at
                    pleasure like another Ariel. Whereas the Law is, that at the destined moment she
                    shall be free. Wise Shakespeare can teach you this,—Prospero had to give his
                    'fine spirit' liberty in the end. If you could shut Lilith up in her mortal
                    frame again, to live a mortal life, the case might be different; but that you
                    cannot do, since the mortal frame is too dead to be capable of retaining such a
                    Fire-Essence as hers is now."'
                "'You think that?"' queried El-Râmi,—  he spoke
                    mechanically,—his thoughts were travelling elsewhere in a sudden new direction
                    of their own.
                The monk regarded him with friendly but always compassionate eyes.
                "'I not only think it—I know it!"' he replied.
                El-Râmi met his gaze fixedly.
                "'You would seem to know most things,"'—he observed—"'Now in this matter I
                    consider that I am more humble-minded than yourself. For I cannot say I 'know'
                    anything,—the whole solar system appears to me to be in a gradually changing
                    condition,—and each day one set of facts is followed by another entirely new set
                    which replace the first and render them useless—"'
                "'There is nothing useless,"' interposed the monk—"'not even a so-called 'fact'
                    disproved. Error leads to the discovery of Truth. And Truth always discloses the
                    one great unalterable Fact,—GOD."'
                "'As I told you, I must have proofs of God"'—said El-Râmi with a chill
                    smile—"'Proofs that satisfy me, personally speaking. At present I believe in
                    Force only."'
                
                "'And how is Force generated?"' inquired the monk.
                "'That we shall discover in time. And not only the How, but also the Why. In the
                    meantime we must prove and test all possibilities, both material and spiritual.
                    And as far as such proving goes, I think you can scarcely deny that this
                    experiment of mine on the girl Lilith is a wonderful one?"'
                "'I cannot grant you that;"'—returned the monk gravely—"'Most Eastern magnetists
                    can do what you have done, provided they have the necessary Will. To detach the
                    Soul from the body, and yet keep the body alive, is an operation that has been
                    performed by others and will be performed again,—but to keep Body and Soul
                    struggling against each other in unnatural conflict, requires cruelty as well as
                    Will. It is as I before observed, the vivisection of a butterfly. The scientist
                    does not think himself barbarous—but his barbarity outweighs his science all the
                    same."'
                "'You mean to say there is nothing surprising in my work?"'
                "'Why should there be?"' said the monk 
                    curtly—"'Barbarism is not wonderful! What is truly a matter for marvel is
                    Yourself. You are the most astonishing example of self-inflicted blindness I
                    have ever known!"'
                El-Râmi breathed quickly,—he was deeply angered, but he had self-possession
                    enough not to betray it. As he stood, sullenly silent, his guest's hand fell
                    gently on his shoulder—his guest's eyes looked earnest love and pity into his
                    own.
                "'El-Râmi Zarânos,"' he said softly—"'You know me. You know I would not lie to
                    you. Hear then my words;—As I see a bird on the point of flight, or a flower
                    just ready to break into bloom, even so I see the Soul of Lilith. She is on the
                    verge of the Eternal Light—its rippling wave,—the great sweet wave that lifts us
                    upward,—has already touched her delicate consciousness,—her aerial organism.
                    You—with your brilliant brain, your astonishing grasp and power over material
                    forces—you are on the verge of darkness,—such a gulf of it as cannot be
                    measured—such a depth as cannot be sounded. Why will you fall? Why do you choose
                    Darkness rather than Light?"'
                
                "'Because my 'deeds are evil,' I suppose,"' retorted El-Râmi bitterly—"'You
                    should finish the text while you are about it. I think you misjudge me,—however,
                    you have not heard all. You consider my labour as vain, and my experiment
                    futile,—but I have some strange results yet to show you in writing. And what I
                    have written I desire to place in your hands that you may take all to the
                    monastery, and keep my discoveries,—if they are discoveries, among
                    the archives. What may seem the wildest notions to the scientists of to-day may
                    prove of practical utility hereafter."'
                He paused, and bending over Lilith, took her hand and called her by name. The
                    reply came rather more quickly than usual.
                "'I am here!"'
                "'Be here no longer, Lilith"'—said El-Râmi, speaking with unusual
                    gentleness,—"'Go home to that fair garden you love, on the high hills of the
                    bright world called Alcyone. There rest, and be happy till I summon you to earth
                    again."'
                He released her hand,—it fell limply in its usual position on her breast,—and her
                    face  became white and rigid as sculptured
                    marble. He watched her lying so for a minute or two, then turning to the monk,
                    observed—
                "'She has left us at once, as you see. Surely you will own that I do not grudge
                    her her liberty?"'
                "'Her liberty is not complete"'—said the monk quietly—"'Her happiness therefore
                    is only temporary."'
                El-Râmi shrugged his shoulders indifferently.
                "'What does that matter if, as you declare, her time of captivity is soon to end?
                    According to your prognostications she will ere long set herself free."'
                The monk's fine eyes flashed forth a calm and holy triumph.
                "'Most assuredly she will!"'
                El-Râmi looked at him and seemed about to make some angry retort, but checking
                    himself, he bowed with a kind of mingled submissiveness and irony, saying—
                "'I will not be so discourteous as to doubt your word! But—I would only remind
                    you that nothing in this world is certain—"'
                "'Except the Law of God!"' interrupted  the monk
                    with passionate emphasis—"'That is immutable,—and against that, El-Râmi Zarânos,
                    you contend in vain! Opposed to that, your strength and power must come to
                    naught,—and all they who wonder at your skill and wisdom shall by-and-by ask one
                    another the old question—'What went ye out for to see?' And the answer
                    shall describe your fate—'A reed shaken by the wind!'"'
                He turned away as he spoke and without another look at the beautiful Lilith, he
                    left the room. El-Râmi stood irresolute for a moment, thinking deeply,—then,
                    touching the bell which would summon Zaroba back to her usual duty of watching
                    the tranced girl, he swiftly followed his mysterious guest.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                HE found him quietly seated in the study, close beside
                    the window, which he had thrown open for air. The rain had ceased,—a few stars
                    shone out in the misty sky, and there was a fresh smell of earth and grass and
                    flowers, as though all were suddenly growing together by some new impetus.
                "''The winter is past,—the rain is over and gone!—Arise, my love, my fair one,
                    and come away!'"' quoted the monk softly, half to himself and half to El-Râmi as
                    he saw the latter enter the room—"'Even in this great and densely peopled city
                    of London, Nature sends her messengers of spring—see here!"'
                And he held out on his hand a delicate  insect
                    with shining iridescent wings that glistened like jewels.
                "'This creature flew in as I opened the window,"' he continued, surveying it
                    tenderly. "'What quaint and charming stories of Flower-land it could tell us if
                    we could but understand its language! Of the poppy-palaces, and rose-leaf
                    saloons coloured through by the kindly sun,—of the loves of the ladybirds and
                    the political controversies of the bees! How dare we make a boast of
                    wisdom!—this tiny denizen of air baffles us—it knows more than we do."'
                "'With regard to the things of its own sphere it knows more, doubtless,"' said
                    El-Râmi—"'but concerning our part of creation, it knows less. These
                    things are equally balanced. You seem to me to be more of a poet than either a
                    devotee or a scientist."'
                "'Perhaps I am!"' and the monk smiled, as he carefully wafted the pretty insect
                    out into the darkness of the night again—"'Yet poets are often the best
                    scientists, because they never know they are scientists. They
                    arrive by a sudden intuition at the facts which it takes several Professors
                    Dry-as-  Dust years to discover. When once you
                    feel you are a scientist, it is all over with you. You are a clever biped who
                    has got hold of a crumb out of the Universal Loaf, and for all your days
                    afterwards you are turning that crumb over and over under your analytical lens.
                    But a poet takes up the whole Loaf unconsciously, and hands portions of it about
                    at haphazard and with the abstracted behaviour of one in a dream,—a wild and
                    extravagant process,—but then, what would you?—his nature could not do with a
                    crumb. No—I dare not call myself 'poet'; if I gave myself any title at all, I
                    would say, with all humbleness, that I am a sympathizer."'
                "'You do not sympathize with me,"' observed El-Râmi gloomily.
                "'My friend, at the immediate moment, you do not need my sympathy. You are
                    sufficient for yourself. But, should you ever make a claim upon me, be sure I
                    shall not fail."'
                He spoke earnestly and cheerily, and smiled,—but El-Râmi did not return the
                    smile. He was bending over a deep drawer  in
                    his writing-table, and after a little search he took out two bulky rolls of
                    manuscript tied and sealed.
                "'Look there!"' he said, indicating the titles with an air of triumph.
                The monk obeyed and read aloud:
                "''The Inhabitants of Sirius. Their Laws, Customs, and Progress.' Well?"'
                "'Well!"' echoed El-Râmi.—"'Is such information, gained from Lilith in her
                    wanderings, of no value?"'
                The monk made no direct reply, but read the title of the second MS.
                "''The World of Neptune. How it is composed of One Thousand Distinct Nations,
                    united under one reigning Emperor, known at the present era as Ustalvian the
                    Tenth.' And again I say—well? What of all this, except to hazard the remark that
                    Ustalvian is a great creature, and supports his responsibilities
                    admirably?"'
                El-Râmi gave a gesture of irritation and impatience.
                "'Surely it must interest you?"' he said. "'Surely you cannot have known these
                    things positively—"'
                
                "'Stop, stop, my friend!"' interposed the monk.—"'Do you know them
                        positively? Do you accept any of Lilith's news as
                        positive? Come,—you are honest—confess you do not! You cannot
                    believe her, though you are puzzled to make out as to where she obtains
                    information which has certainly nothing to do with this world, or any external
                    impression. And that is why she is really a Sphinx to you still, in spite of
                    your power over her. As for being interested, of course I am interested. It is
                    impossible not to be interested in everything, even in the development of a
                    grub. But you have not made any discovery that is specially new—to
                        me. I have my own Messenger!"' He raised his eyes one moment
                    with a brief devout glance—then resumed quietly—"'There are other 'detached'
                    spirits, besides that of your Lilith, who have found their way to some of the
                    planets, and have returned to tell the tale. In one of our monasteries we have a
                    very exact description of Mars obtained in this same way—its landscapes, its
                    cities, its people, its various nations—all very concisely given. These are but
                    the beginnings of  discoveries—the feeling for
                    the Clue,—the Clue itself will be found one day."'
                "'The Clue to what?"' demanded El-Râmi. "'To the stellar mysteries, or to Life's
                    mystery?"'
                "'To everything!"' replied the monk firmly. "'To everything that seems unclear
                    and perplexing now. It will all be unravelled for us in such a simple way that
                    we shall wonder why we did not discover it before. As I told you, my friend, I
                    am, above all things, a sympathizer. I sympathize—God knows how
                    deeply and passionately,—with what I may call the unexplained woe of the world.
                    The other day I visited a poor fellow who had lost his only child. He told me he
                    could believe in nothing,—he said that what people call the goodness of God was
                    only cruelty. 'Why take this boy!' he cried, rocking the pretty little corpse to
                    and fro on his breast—'Why rob me of the chief thing I had to live for? Oh, if I
                    only knew—as positively as I know day is day, and night is
                    night—that I should see my living child again, and possess his love in another
                    world than this, should I repine as I do? No,—I should  believe in God's wisdom,—and I should try to be a
                    good man instead of a bad. But it is because I do not know, that I am
                    broken-hearted. If there is a God, surely He might have given us some little
                        certain clue by way of help and comfort!' Thus he wailed,—and
                    my heart ached for him. Nevertheless the clue is to be had,—and I believe it
                    will be found suddenly in some little, deeply-hidden unguessed Law,—we are on
                    the track of it, and I fancy we shall soon find it."'
                "'Ah!—and what of the millions of creatures who, in the bygone eras, having no
                    clue, have passed away without any sort of comfort?"' asked El-Râmi.
                "'Nature takes time to manifest her laws,"' replied the monk.—"'And it must be
                    remembered that what we call 'time' is not Nature's counting at
                    all. The method Nature has of counting time may be faintly guessed by proven
                    scientific fact,—as, for instance, take the Comet which appeared in 1744. Strict
                    mathematicians calculated that this brilliant world (for it is a world) needs
                    122,683 years to perform one single circuit! And yet the circuit of a Comet is
                    surely not so much  time to allow for God and
                    Nature to declare a Meaning!"'
                El-Râmi shuddered slightly.
                "'All the same, it is horrible to think of,"' he said.—"'All those enormous
                    periods,—those eternal vastnesses! For, during the 122,683 years we die, and
                    pass into the Silence."'
                "'Into the Silence or the Explanation?"' queried the monk softly.—"'For there
                        is an Explanation,—and we are all bound to know it at some time
                    or other, else Creation would be but a poor and bungling business."'
                "'If we are bound to know,"' said El-Râmi, "'then every living
                    creature is bound to know, since every living creature suffers cruelly, in
                    wretched ignorance of the cause of its suffering. To every atom, no matter how
                    infinitely minute, must be given this 'explanation,'—to dogs and birds as well
                    as men—nay, even to flowers must be declared the meaning of the mystery."'
                "'Unless the flowers know already!"' suggested the monk with a smile.—"'Which is
                    quite possible!"'
                "'Oh, everything is 'possible' according  to
                    your way of thinking,"' said El-Râmi somewhat impatiently. "'If one is a
                    visionary, one would scarcely be surprised to see the legended 'Jacob's ladder'
                    leaning against that dark midnight sky and the angels descending and ascending
                    upon it. And so—"' here he touched the two rolls of manuscript lying on the
                    table—"'you find no use in these?"'
                "'I personally have no use for them,"' responded his guest,—"'but as you desire
                    it, I will take charge of them and place them in safe keeping at the monastery.
                    Every little link helps to forge the chain of discovery, of course. By the way,
                    while on this subject, I must not forget to speak to you about poor old Kremlin.
                    I had a letter from him about two months ago. I very much fear that famous Disc
                    of his will be his ruin."'
                "'Such an intimation will console him vastly!"' observed El-Râmi
                    sarcastically.
                "'Consolation has nothing to do with the matter. If a man rushes wilfully into
                    danger, danger will not move itself out of the way for him. I always told
                    Kremlin that his proposed design was an unsafe one, even  before he went out to Africa fifteen years ago in
                    search of the magnetic spar—a crystalline formation whose extraordinary
                    reflection-power he learned from me. However, it must be admitted that he has
                    come marvellously close to the unravelling of the enigma at which he works. And
                    when you see him next you may tell him from me, that if he can—mind, it is a
                    very big 'if'—if he can follow the movements of the Third Ray on his Disc he
                    will be following the signals from Mars. To make out the meaning of those
                    signals is quite another matter—but he can safely classify them as the
                    light-vibrations from that particular planet."'
                "'How is he to tell which is the Third Ray that falls, among a fleeting
                    thousand?"' asked El-Râmi dubiously.
                "'It will be difficult of course, but he can try,"' returned the monk.—"'Let him
                    first cover the Disc with thick, dark drapery, and then when it is face to face
                    with the stars in the zenith, uncover it quickly, keeping his eyes fixed on its
                    surface. In one minute there will be three distinct flashes—the third is from
                    Mars. Let him endeavour to follow  that third
                    ray in its course on the Disc, and probably he will arrive at something worth
                    remark. This suggestion I offer by way of assisting him, for his patient labour
                    is both wonderful and pathetic,—but,—it would be far better and wiser were he to
                    resign his task altogether. Yet—who knows!—the ordained end may be the
                    best!"'
                "'And do you know this 'ordained end'?"' questioned El-Râmi.
                The monk met his incredulous gaze calmly.
                "'I know it as I know yours,"' he replied. "'As I know my own, and the end (or
                    beginning) of all those who are, or who have been, in any way connected with my
                    life and labours."'
                "'How can you know!"' exclaimed El-Râmi brusquely.—"'Who is there to
                    tell you these things that are surely hidden in the future?"'
                "'Even as a picture already hangs in an artist's brain before it is painted,"'
                    said the monk,—"'so does every scene of each human unit's life hang,
                    embryo-like, in air and space, in light and colour. Explanations of these  things are well-nigh impossible—it is not
                    given to mortal speech to tell them. One must see,—and to see
                    clearly, one must not become wilfully blind."' he paused,—then added—"'For
                    instance, El-Râmi, I would that you could see this room as I see it."'
                El-Râmi looked about half carelessly, half wonderingly.
                "'And do I not?"' he asked.
                The monk stretched out his hand.
                "'Tell me first,—is there anything visible between this my extended arm and
                    you?"'
                El-Râmi shook his head.
                "'Nothing."'
                Whereupon the monk raised his eyes, and in a low thrilling voice said
                    solemnly—
                "'O God with whom Thought is Creation and Creation Thought, for one brief moment,
                    be pleased to lift material darkness from the sight of this man Thy
                    subject-creature, and by Thy sovereign-power permit him to behold with mortal
                    eyes, in mortal life, Thy deathless Messenger!"'
                Scarcely had these words been pronounced than El-Râmi was conscious of a blinding
                    flash of fire as though sudden lightning had 
                    struck the room from end to end. Confused and dazzled, he instinctively covered
                    his eyes with his hand, then removing it, looked up, stupefied, speechless, and
                    utterly overwhelmed at what he saw. Clear before him stood a wondrous Shape,
                    seemingly human, yet unlike humanity,—a creature apparently composed of radiant
                    colour, from whose transcendent form, great shafts of gold and rose and purple
                    spread upward and around in glowing lines of glory. This marvellous Being stood,
                    or rather was poised in a stedfast attitude, between him, El-Râmi, and the
                    monk,—its luminous hands were stretched out on either side as though to keep
                    those twain asunder—its starry eyes expressed an earnest watchfulness—its
                    majestic patience never seemed to tire. A thing of royal stateliness and power,
                    it stayed there immovable, parting with its radiant intangible Presence the two
                    men who gazed upon it, one with fearless, reverent, yet accustomed eyes—the
                    other with a dazzled and bewildered stare. Another moment and El-Râmi at all
                    risks would have spoken,—but that the Shining Figure lifted its light-crowned
                    head and gazed at him.  The wondrous look
                    appalled him,—unnerved him,—the straight, pure brilliancy and limpid lustre of
                    those unearthly orbs sent shudders through him,—he gasped for breath—thrust out
                    his hands, and fell on his knees in a blind, unconscious, swooning act of
                    adoration, mingled with a sense of awe and something like despair,—when a dense
                    chill darkness as of death closed over him, and he remembered nothing more.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                WHEN he came to himself, it was full daylight. His
                    head was resting on someone's knee,—someone was sprinkling cold water on his
                    face and talking to him in an incoherent mingling of Arabic and English,—who was
                    that someone? Féraz? Yes!—surely it was Féraz! Opening his eyes languidly, he
                    stared about him and attempted to rise.
                "'What is the matter?"' he asked faintly. "'What are you doing to me? I am quite
                    well, am I not?"'
                "'Yes, yes!"' cried Féraz eagerly, delighted to hear him speak.—"'You are
                    well,—it was a swoon that seized you—nothing more! But I was anxious,—I found
                    you here, insensible—"'
                
                With an effort El-Râmi rose to his feet, steadying himself on his brother's
                    arm.
                "'Insensible!"' he repeated vaguely.—"'Insensible!—that is strange!—I must have
                    been very weak and tired—and overpowered. But,—where is He—?"'
                "'If you mean the Master,"' said Féraz, lowering his voice to an almost
                    awe-stricken whisper—"'He has gone, and left no trace,—save that sealed paper
                    there upon your table."'
                El-Râmi shook himself free of his brother's hold and hurried forward to possess
                    himself of the indicated missive,—seizing it, he tore it quickly open,—it
                    contained but one line—"'Beware the end! With Lilith's love comes Lilith's
                        freedom."'
                That was all. He read it again and again—then deliberately striking a match, he
                    set fire to it and burnt it to ashes. A rapid glance round showed him that the
                    manuscripts concerning Neptune and Sirius were gone,—the mysterious monk had
                    evidently taken them with him as desired. Then he turned again to his
                    brother.
                "'When could he have gone?"' he 
                        de-
                        demanded
                    
                     manded.—"'Did you not hear the street-door
                    open and shut?—no sound at all of his departure?"'
                Féraz shook his head.
                "'I slept heavily,"' he said apologetically. "'But in my dreams it seemed as
                    though a hand touched me, and I awoke. The sun was shining brilliantly—someone
                    called 'Féraz! Féraz!'—I thought it was your voice, and I hurried into the room
                    to find you, as I thought, dead,—oh! the horror of that moment of
                    suspense!"'
                El-Râmi looked at him kindly, and smiled.
                "'Why feel horror, my dear boy?"' he inquired.—"'Death—or what we call death,—is
                    the best possible fortune for everybody. Even if there were no Afterwards, it
                    would still be an End—an end of trouble and tedium and infinite uncertainty.
                    Could anything be happier?—I doubt it!"'
                And sighing, he threw himself into his chair with an air of exhaustion. Féraz
                    stood a little apart, gazing at him somewhat wistfully—then he spoke—
                "'I too have thought that, El-Râmi,"' he  said
                    softly.—"'As to whether this End, which the world and all men dread, might not
                    be the best thing? And yet my own personal sensations tell me that life means
                    something good for me if I only learn how best to live it."'
                "'Youth, my dear fellow!"' said El-Râmi lightly. "'Delicious youth,—which you
                    share in common with the scampering colt who imagines all the meadows of the
                    world were made for him to race upon. This is the potent charm which persuades
                    you that life is agreeable. But unfortunately it will pass,—this rosy
                    morning-glory. And the older you grow the wiser and the sadder you will be,—I,
                    your brother, am an excellent example of the truth of this platitude."'
                "'You are not old,"' replied Féraz quickly. "'But certainly you are often sad.
                    You overwork your brain. For example, last night of course you did not
                    sleep—will you sleep now?"'
                "'No—I will breakfast,"' said El-Râmi, rousing himself to seem cheerful.—"'A good
                    cup of coffee is one of the boons of existence—and no one can make it as you do.
                    It  will put the finishing touch to my complete
                    recovery."'
                Féraz took this hint, and hastened off to prepare the desired beverage,—while
                    El-Râmi, left alone, sat for a few moments wrapped in a deep reverie. His
                    thoughts reverted to and dwelt upon the strange and glorious Figure he had seen
                    standing in that very room between him and the monk,—he wondered doubtfully if
                    such a celestial visitant were anywhere near him now? Shaking off the fantastic
                    impression, he got up and walked to and fro.
                "'What a fool I am!"' he exclaimed half-aloud—"'As if my eyes could
                    not be as much deluded for once in a way, as the eyes of anyone else! It was a
                    strange shape,—a marvellously divine-looking apparition;—but he
                    evolved it—he is as great a master in the art of creating phantasma as Moses
                    himself, and could, if he chose, make thunder echo at his will on another Mount
                    Sinai. Upon my word, the things that men can do are as wonderful as
                    the things that they would fain attempt; and the only miraculous part of this
                    particular man's force is that he should have 
                    overpowered ME, seeing I am so strong. And then one other marvel,—(if it be
                    true)—he could see the Soul of Lilith."'
                Here he came to a full stop in his walk, and with his eyes fixed on vacancy he
                    repeated musingly—
                "'He could see the Soul of Lilith. If that is so—if that is
                    possible, then I will see it too, if I die in the attempt. To see
                    the Soul—to look upon it and know its form—to discern the manner of its
                    organization, would surely be to prove it. Sight can be deceived, we know—we
                    look upon a star (or think we look upon it), that may have disappeared some
                    thirty thousand years ago, as it takes thirty thousand years for its reflex to
                    reach us—all that is true—but there are ways of guarding against
                    deception."'
                He had now struck upon a new line of thought,—ideas more daring than he had ever
                    yet conceived began to flit through his brain,—and when Féraz came in with the
                    breakfast he partook of that meal with avidity and relish, his excellent
                    appetite entirely reassuring his brother with regard to his health.
                
                "'You are right, Féraz,"' he said, as he sipped his coffee.—"'Life can be made
                    enjoyable after a fashion, no doubt. But the best way to get enjoyment out of it
                    is to be always at work—always putting a brick in to help the universal
                    architecture."'
                Féraz was silent. El-Râmi looked at him inquisitively.
                "'Don't you agree with me?"' he asked.
                "'No—not entirely"'—and Féraz pushed the clustering hair off his brow with a
                    slightly troubled gesture.—"'Work may become as monotonous and wearisome as
                    anything else if we have too much of it. If we are always working—that is, if we
                    are always obtruding ourselves into affairs and thinking they cannot get on
                    without us, we make an obstruction in the way, I think—we are not a help.
                    Besides, we leave ourselves no time to absorb suggestions, and I fancy a great
                    deal is learned by simply keeping the brain quiet and absorbing light."'
                "''Absorbing light?'"' queried his brother perplexedly—"'What do you mean?"'
                "'Well, it is difficult to explain my meaning,"' said Féraz with hesitation—  "'but yet I feel there is truth in what I try
                    to express. You see, everything absorbs something, and you will assuredly admit
                    that the brain absorbs certain impressions?"'
                "'Of course,—but impressions are not 'light'?"'
                "'Are they not? Not even the effects of light? Then what is the art of
                    photography? However, I do not speak of the impressions received from our merely
                    external surroundings. If you can relieve the brain from conscious
                    thought,—if you have the power to shake off outward suggestions and be willing
                    to think of nothing personal, your brain will receive impressions which are to
                    some extent new, and with which you actually have very little connection. It is
                    strange,—but it is so;—you become obediently receptive, and perhaps wonder where
                    your ideas come from. I say they are the result of light. Light can use up
                    immense periods of time in travelling from a far distant star into our area of
                    vision, and yet at last we see it,—shall not God's inspiration travel at a far
                    swifter pace than star-beams, and reach the human brain as surely? This  thought has often startled me,—it has filled
                    me with an almost apprehensive awe,—the capabilities it opens up are so immense
                    and wonderful. Even a man can suggest ideas to his fellow-man and cause them to
                    germinate in the mind and blossom into action,—how can we deny to God the power
                    to do the same? And so,—imagine it!—the first strain of the glorious
                    'Tannhauser' may have been played on the harps of Heaven, and rolling sweetly
                    through infinite space may have touched in fine far echoes the brain of the
                    musician who afterwards gave it form and utterance—ah yes!—I would love to think
                    it were so!—I would love to think that nothing,—nothing is truly ours; but that
                    all the marvels of poetry, of song, of art, of colour, of beauty, were only the
                    echoes and distant impressions of that Eternal Grandeur which comes
                    hereafter!"'
                His eyes flashed with all a poet's enthusiasm,—he rose from the table and paced
                    the room excitedly, while his brother, sitting silent, watched him
                    meditatively.
                "'El-Râmi, you have no idea,"' he continued—"'of the wonders and delights of  the land I call my Star! You think it is a
                    dream—an unexplained portion of a splendid trance,—and I am now fully aware of
                    what I owe to your magnetic influence,—your forceful spell that rests upon my
                    life;—but see you!—when I am alone—quite, quite alone, when you are absent from
                    me, when you are not influencing me, it is then I see the landscapes best,—it is
                    then I hear my people sing! I let my brain rest;—as far as it is possible, I
                    think of nothing,—then suddenly upon me falls the ravishment and ecstasy,—this
                    world rolls up as it were in a whirling cloud and vanishes, and lo! I find
                    myself at home. There is a stretch of forest-land in this Star of mine,—a place
                    all dusky green with shadows, and musical with the fall of silvery waters,—that
                    is my favourite haunt when I am there, for it leads me on and on through grasses
                    and tangles of wild flowers to what I know and feel must be my own abode, where
                    I should rest and sleep if sleep were needful; but this abode I never reach; I
                    am debarred from entering in, and I do not know the reason why. The other day,
                    when wandering there, I met two maidens 
                    bearing flowers,—they stopped, regarding me with pleased yet doubting eyes, and
                    one said—'Look you, our lord is now returned!' And the other sighed and
                    answered—'Nay! he is still an exile and may not stay with us.' Whereupon they
                    bent their heads, and shrinking past me, disappeared. When I would have called
                    them back I woke!—to find that this dull earth was once again my house of
                    bondage."'
                El-Râmi heard him with patient interest.
                "'I do not deny, Féraz,"' he said slowly, "'that your impressions are very
                    strange—"'
                "'Very strange? Yes!"' cried Féraz. "'But very true!"'
                He paused—then on a sudden impulse came close up to his brother, and laid a hand
                    on his shoulder.
                "'And do you mean to tell me,"' he asked, "'that you who have studied so much,
                    and have mastered so much, yet receive no such impressions as those
                    I speak of?"'
                A faint flush coloured El-Râmi's olive skin.
                "'Certain impressions come to me at times, of course,"' he answered slowly.—"'And
                    there  have been certain seasons in my life
                    when I have had visions of the impossible. But I have a coldly-tempered
                    organization, Féraz,—I am able to reason these things away."'
                "'Oh, you can reason the whole world away if you choose,"' said Féraz.—"'For it
                    is nothing after all but a pinch of star-dust."'
                "'If you can reason a thing away it does not exist,"' observed El-Râmi
                    dryly.—"'Reduce the world, as you say, to a pinch of star-dust, still the pinch
                    of star-dust is there—it Exists."'
                "'Some people doubt even that!"' said Féraz, smiling.
                "'Well, everything can be over-done,"' replied his brother,—"'even the process of
                    reasoning. We can, if we choose, 'reason' ourselves into madness. There is a
                    boundary-line to every science which the human intellect dare not
                    overstep."'
                "'I wonder what and where is your boundary-line?"' questioned Féraz
                    lightly.—"'Have you laid one down for yourself at all? Surely not!—for you are
                    too ambitious."'
                
                El-Râmi made no answer to this observation, but betook himself to his books and
                    papers. Féraz meanwhile set the room in order and cleared away the
                    breakfast,—and these duties done, he quietly withdrew. Left to himself, El-Râmi
                    took from the centre drawer of his writing-table a medium-sized manuscript book
                    which was locked, and which he opened by means of a small key that was attached
                    to his watch-chain, and bending over the title-page he critically examined it.
                    Its heading ran thus—
                "'The title does not cover all the ground,"' he murmured as he read.—"'And yet
                    how am I to designate it? It is a vast subject, and presents different branches
                    of treatment, and after all said and done, I may have wasted my time in planning
                    it. Most likely I have,—but there is no scientist living who would refuse to
                    accept it. The question is,  shall I ever
                    finish it?—shall I ever know positively that there IS without doubt, a
                    Conscious, Personal Something or Someone after death who enters at once upon
                    another existence? My new experiment will decide all—if I see the
                    Soul of Lilith, all hesitation will be at an end—I shall be sure of everything
                    which now seems uncertain. And then the triumph!—then the victory!"'
                His eyes sparkled, and dipping his pen in the ink he prepared to write, but ere
                    he did so the message which the monk had left for him to read, recurred with a
                    chill warning to his memory,—
                "'Beware the end! With Lilith's love comes Lilith's freedom."'
                He considered the words for a moment apprehensively,—and then a proud smile
                    played round his mouth.
                "'For a Master who has attained to some degree of wisdom, his intuition is
                    strangely erroneous this time,"' he muttered.—"'For if there be any dream of
                    love in Lilith, that dream, that love is Mine! And being mine, who shall dispute
                    possession,—who shall take her from me? No one,—not even  God,—for He does not break through the laws of
                    Nature. And by those laws I have kept Lilith—and even so I will keep her
                    still."'
                Satisfied with his own conclusions, he began to write, taking up the thread of
                    his theory of religion where he had left it on the previous day. He had a
                    brilliant and convincing style, and was soon deep in an elaborate and eloquent
                    disquisition on the superior scientific reasoning contained in the ancient
                    Eastern faiths, as compared with the modern scheme of Christianity, which limits
                    God's power to this world only, and takes no consideration of the fate of other
                    visible and far more splendid spheres.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                THE few days immediately following the visit of the
                    mysterious monk from Cyprus were quiet and uneventful enough. El-Râmi led the
                    life of a student and recluse; Féraz, too, occupied himself with books and
                    music, thinking much, but saying little. He had solemnly sworn never again to
                    make allusion to the forbidden subject of his brother's great experiment, and he
                    meant to keep his vow. For though he had in very truth absolutely forgotten the
                    name "'Lilith,"' he had not forgotten the face of her whose beauty had surprised
                    his senses and dazzled his brain. She had become to him a nameless Wonder,—and
                    from the sweet remembrance of her loveliness he gained a certain consolation and
                    pleasure which he jealously and religiously 
                    kept to himself. He thought of her as a poet may think of an ideal goddess seen
                    in a mystic dream,—but he never ventured to ask a question concerning her. And
                    even if he had wished to do so,—even if he had indulged the idea of encouraging
                    Zaroba to follow up the work she had begun by telling him all she could
                    concerning the beautiful tranced girl, that course was now impossible. For
                    Zaroba seemed stricken dumb as well as deaf,—what had chanced to her he could
                    not tell,—but a mysterious silence possessed her; and though her large black
                    eyes were sorrowfully eloquent, she never uttered a word. She came and went on
                    various household errands, always silently and with bent head,—she looked older,
                    feebler, wearier and sadder, but not so much as a gesture escaped her that could
                    be construed into a complaint. Once Féraz made signs to her of inquiry after her
                    health and well-being—she smiled mournfully, but gave no other response, and
                    turning away, left him hurriedly. He mused long and deeply upon all this,—and
                    though he felt sure that Zaroba's strange but resolute  speechlessness was his brother's work, he dared not
                    speculate too far or inquire too deeply. For he fully recognised El-Râmi's
                    power,—a power so scientifically balanced, and used with such terrible and
                    unerring precision, that there could be no opposition possible unless one were
                    of equal strength and knowledge. Féraz knew he could no more compete with such a
                    force than a mouse can wield a thunderbolt,—he therefore deemed it best to
                    resign himself to his destiny and wait the course of events.
                "'For,"' he said within himself, "'it is not likely one man should be permitted
                    to use such strange authority over natural forces long,—it may be that God is
                    trying him,—putting him to the proof, as it were, to find out how far he will
                    dare to go,—and then—ah then!—what then? If his heart were
                    dedicated to the service of God I should not fear—but—as it is,—I dread the
                    end!"'
                His instinct was correct in this,—for in spite of his poetic and fanciful
                    temperament, he had plenty of quick perception, and he saw plainly what El-Râmi
                    himself was not very willing to recognise,—namely, that in all  the labour of his life, so far as it had gone, he,
                    El-Râmi, had rather opposed himself to the Unseen Divine, than striven to
                    incorporate himself with it. He preferred to believe in Natural Force only; his
                    inclination was to deny the possibility of anything behind That. He accepted the
                    idea of Immortality to a certain extent, because Natural Force was forever
                    giving him proofs of the perpetual regeneration of life—but that there was a
                    Primal Source of this generating influence,—One, great and eternal, who would
                    demand an account of all lives, and an accurate summing-up of all words and
                    actions,—in this, though he might assume the virtue of faith, Féraz very well
                    knew he had it not. Like the greater majority of scientists and natural
                    philosophers generally, what Self could comprehend, he accepted,—but all that
                    extended beyond Self,—all that made of Self but a grain of dust in a vast
                    infinitude,—all that forced the Creature to prostrate himself humbly before the
                    Creator and cry out "'Lord, be merciful to me a sinner!"' this he tacitly and
                    proudly rejected. For which reasons the gentle,  dreamy Féraz had good cause to fear,—and a foreboding voice forever whispered
                    in his mind that man without God was as a world without light,—a black chaos of
                    blank unfruitfulness.
                With the ensuing week the grand "'reception"' to which El-Râmi and his brother
                    had been invited by Lord Melthorpe came off with great éclat. Lady Melthorpe's
                    "'crushes"' were among the most brilliant of the season, and this one was
                    particularly so, as it was a special function held for the entertainment of the
                    distinguished Crown Prince of a great nation. True, the distinguished Crown
                    Prince was only "'timed"' to look in a little after midnight for about ten
                    minutes, but the exceeding brevity of his stay was immaterial to the fashionable
                    throng. All that was needed was just the piquant flavour,—the "'passing"' of a
                    Royal Presence,—to make the gathering socially complete. The rooms were
                    crowded—so much so indeed that it was difficult to take note of any one person
                    in particular, yet in spite of this fact, there was a very general movement of
                    interest and admiration when El-Râmi entered with his  young and handsome brother beside him. Both had a
                    look and manner too distinctly striking to escape observation:—their olive
                    complexions, black melancholy eyes, and slim yet stately figures, were set off
                    to perfection by the richness of the Oriental dresses they wore; and the grave
                    composure and perfect dignity of their bearing offered a pleasing contrast to
                    the excited pushing, waddling, and scrambling indulged in by the greater part of
                    the aristocratic assemblage. Lady Melthorpe herself, a rather pretty woman
                    attired in a very æsthetic gown, and wearing her brown hair all towzled and
                    arranged "'à la Grecque"' in diamond bandeaux, caught sight of them at once, and
                    was delighted. Such picturesque-looking creatures were really ornaments to a
                    room, she thought with much interior satisfaction; and wreathing her face with
                    smiles, she glided up to them.
                "'I am so charmed, my dear El-Râmi!"' she said, holding out her jewelled
                    hand.—"'So charmed to see you—you so very seldom will come to me!
                        And your brother! So glad! Why did you never tell me you had
                         a brother? Naughty man! What is your
                    brother's name? Féraz? Delightful!—it makes me think of Hafiz and Sadi and all
                    those very charming Eastern people. I must find someone interesting to introduce
                    to you. Will you wait here a minute—the crowd is so thick in the centre of the
                    room that really I'm afraid you will not be able to get through
                        it—do wait here, and I'll bring the Baroness to you—don't you
                    know the Baroness? Oh, she's such a delightful creature—so clever at palmistry!
                    Yes—just stay where you are,—I'll come back directly!"'
                And with sundry good-humoured nods her ladyship swept away, while Féraz glanced
                    at his brother with an expression of amused inquiry.
                "'That is Lady Melthorpe?"' he asked.
                "'That is Lady Melthorpe,"' returned El-Râmi—"'our hostess, and Lord Melthorpe's
                    wife; his, 'to have and to hold, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in
                    sickness and in health, to love, honour and cherish till death do them part,'"'
                    and he smiled somewhat satirically.—"'It seems odd, doesn't  it?—I mean, such solemn words sound out of place
                    sometimes. Do you like her?"'
                Féraz made a slight sign in the negative.
                "'She does not speak sincerely,"' he said in a low tone.
                El-Râmi laughed.
                "'My dear boy, you mustn't expect anyone to be 'sincere' in society. You said you
                    wanted to 'see life'—very well, but it will never do to begin by viewing it in
                    that way. An outburst of actual sincerity in this human mêlée"'—and he glanced
                    comprehensively over the brilliant throng—"'would be like a match to a gunpowder
                    magazine—the whole thing would blow up into fragments and be dispersed to the
                    four winds of heaven, leaving nothing behind but an evil odour."'
                "'Better so,"' said Féraz dreamily, "'than that false hearts should be mistaken
                    for true."'
                El-Râmi looked at him wistfully;—what a beautiful youth he really was, with all
                    that glow of thought and feeling in his dark eyes! How different was his aspect
                    to that of the jaded, cynical, vice-worn young men  of fashion, some of whom were pushing their way past
                    at that moment,—men in the twenties who had the air of being well on in the
                    forties, and badly preserved at that—wretched, pallid, languid, exhausted
                    creatures who had thrown away the splendid jewel of their youth in a couple of
                    years' stupid dissipation and folly. At that moment Lord Melthorpe, smiling and
                    cordial, came up to them and shook hands warmly, and then introduced with a few
                    pleasant words a gentleman who had accompanied him as,—"'Roy Ainsworth, the
                    famous artist, you know!"'
                "'Oh, not at all!"' drawled the individual thus described, with a searching
                    glance at the two brothers from under his drowsy eyelids.—"'Not famous by any
                    means—not yet. Only trying to be. You've got to paint something startling and
                    shocking nowadays before you are considered 'famous';—and even then, when you've
                    outraged all the proprieties, you must give a banquet, or take a big house and
                    hold receptions, or have an electrically lit-up skeleton in your studio, or
                    something of that sort, to keep the public 
                    attention fixed upon you. It's such a restless age."'
                El-Râmi smiled gravely.
                "'The feverish outburst of an unnatural vitality immediately preceding
                    dissolution,"' he observed.
                "'Ah!—you think that? Well—it may be,—I'm sure I hope it is. I personally should
                    be charmed to believe in the rapidly-approaching end of the world. We really
                    need a change of planet as much as certain invalids require a change of air.
                    Your brother, however"'—and here he flashed a keen glance at Féraz—"'seems
                    already to belong to quite a different sphere."'
                Féraz looked up with a pleased yet startled expression.
                "'Yes,—but how did you know it?"' he asked.
                It was now the artist's turn to be embarrassed. He had used the words "'different
                    sphere"' merely as a figure of speech, whereas this intelligent-looking young
                    fellow evidently took the phrase in a literal sense. It was very odd!—and he
                    hesitated what to answer, so El-Râmi came to the rescue.
                
                "'Mr. Ainsworth only means that you do not look quite like other people, Féraz,
                    that's all. Poets and musicians often carry their own distinctive mark."'
                "'Is he a poet?"' inquired Lord Melthorpe with interest.—"'And has he published
                    anything?"'
                El-Râmi laughed good-humouredly.
                "'Not he! Why dear Lord Melthorpe, we are not all called upon to give the world
                    our blood and brain and nerve and spirit. Some few reserve their strength for
                    higher latitudes. To give greedy Humanity everything of one's self is rather too
                    prodigal an expenditure."'
                "'I agree with you,"' said a chill yet sweet voice close to them.—"'It was
                    Christ's way of work,—and quite too unwise an example for any of us to
                    follow."'
                Lord Melthorpe and Mr. Ainsworth turned quickly to make way for the speaker,—a
                    slight fair woman, with a delicate thoughtful face full of light, languor, and
                    scorn, who, clad in snowy draperies adorned here and there with the cold sparkle
                    of diamonds, drew near them at the moment. El-Râmi and  his brother both noted her with interest,—she was so
                    different from the other women present.
                "'I am delighted to see you!"' said Lord Melthorpe as he held out his hand in
                    greeting.—"'It is so seldom we have the honour! Mr. Ainsworth you already
                    know,—let me introduce my Oriental friends here,—El-Râmi Zarânos and his brother
                    Féraz Zarânos,—Madame Irene Vassilius—you must have heard of her very
                    often."'
                El-Râmi had indeed heard of her,—she was an authoress of high repute, noted for
                    her brilliant satirical pen, her contempt of press-criticism, and her influence
                    over, and utter indifference to, all men. Therefore he regarded her now with a
                    certain pardonable curiosity as he made her his profoundest salutation, while
                    she returned his look with equal interest.
                "'It is you who said that we must not give ourselves wholly away to the needs of
                    Humanity, is it not?"' she said, letting her calm eyes dwell upon him with a
                    dreamy yet searching scrutiny.
                "'I certainly did say so, Madame,"' replied 
                    El-Râmi.—"'It is a waste of life,—and Humanity is always ungrateful."'
                "'You have proved it? But perhaps you have not tried to deserve its
                    gratitude."'
                This was rather a home thrust, and El-Râmi was surprised and vaguely annoyed at
                    its truth. Irene Vassilius still stood quietly observing him,—then she turned to
                    Roy Ainsworth.
                "'There is the type you want for your picture,"' she said, indicating Féraz by a
                    slight gesture.—"'That boy, depicted in the clutches of your Phryne, would make
                    angels weep."'
                "'If I could make you weep I should have achieved something like
                    success,"' replied the painter, his dreamy eyes dilating with a passion he could
                    not wholly conceal.—"'But icebergs neither smile nor shed tears,—and
                    intellectual women are impervious to emotion."'
                "'That is a mistaken idea,—one of the narrow notions common to men,"' she
                    answered, waving her fan idly to and fro.—"'You remind me of the querulous
                    Edward Fitzgerald, who wrote that he was glad 
                    Mrs. Barrett-Browning was dead, because there would be no more 'Aurora Leighs.'
                    He condescended to say she was a 'woman of Genius,' but what was the use of it?
                    She and her Sex, he said, would be better minding the Kitchen and their
                    Children. He and his Sex always consider the terrible possibilities
                    to themselves of a badly cooked dinner and a baby's screams. His notion about
                    the limitation of Woman's sphere, is Man's notion generally."'
                "'It is not mine,"' said Lord Melthorpe.—"'I think women are cleverer than
                    men."'
                "'Ah, you are not a reviewer!"' laughed Madame Vassilius—"'so you can afford to
                    be generous. But as a rule men detest clever women, simply because they are
                    jealous of them."'
                "'They have cause to be jealous of you,"' said Roy Ainsworth.—"'You succeed in
                    everything you touch."'
                "'Success is easy,"' she replied indifferently.—"'Resolve upon it, and carry out
                    that resolve—and the thing is done."'
                El-Râmi looked at her with new interest.
                "'Madame, you have a strong will!"' he 
                    observed.—"'But permit me to say that all your sex are not like yourself,
                    beautiful, gifted, and resolute at one and the same time. The majority of women
                    are deplorably unintelligent and uninteresting."'
                "'That is precisely how I find the majority of men!"' declared Irene Vassilius,
                    with that little soft laugh of hers which was so sweet, yet so full of
                    irony.—"'You see, we view things from different standpoints. Moreover, the
                    deplorably unintelligent and uninteresting women are the very ones you men elect
                    to marry, and make the mothers of the nation. It is the way of masculine
                    wisdom,—so full of careful forethought and admirable calculation!"' She laughed
                    again, and continued—"'Lord Melthorpe tells me you are a Seer,—an Eastern
                    prophet arisen in these dull modern days—now will you solve me a riddle that I
                    am unable to guess,—Myself?—and tell me if you can, who am I and what am
                    I?"'
                "'Madame,"' replied El-Râmi bowing profoundly, "'I cannot in one moment unravel
                    so complex an Enigma."'
                She smiled, not ill-pleased, and met his  dark,
                    fiery, penetrating glance unreservedly,—then, drawing off her long loose glove,
                    she held out her small beautifully-shaped white hand.
                "'Try me,"' she said lightly, "'for if there is any truth in 'brain-waves' or
                    reflexes of the mind, the touch of my fingers ought to send electric meanings
                    through you. I am generally judged as of a frivolous disposition because I am
                    small in stature, slight in build, and have curly hair—all proofs positive,
                    according to the majority, of latent foolishness. Colossal women, however, are
                    always astonishingly stupid, and fat women lethargic—but a mountain of good
                    flesh is always more attractive to man than any amount of intellectual
                    perception. Oh, I am not posing as one of the 'misunderstood'; not at all—I
                    simply wish you to look well at me first and take in my 'frivolous' appearance
                    thoroughly, before being misled by the messages of my hand."'
                El-Râmi obeyed her in so far that he fixed his eyes upon her more searchingly
                    than before,—a little knot of fashionable loungers had stopped to listen, and
                    now watched her  face with equal curiosity. No
                    rush of embarrassed colour tinged the cool fairness of her cheeks—her expression
                    was one of quiet, half-smiling indifference—her attitude full of perfect
                    self-possession.
                "'No one who looks at your eyes can call you frivolous, Madame,"' said El-Râmi at
                    last.—"'And no one who observes the lines of your mouth and chin could suspect
                    you of latent foolishness. Your physiognomy must have been judged by the merest
                    surface-observers. As for stature, we are aware that goes for naught,—most of
                    the heroes and heroines of history have been small and slight in build. I will
                    now, if you permit me, take your hand."'
                She laid it at once in his extended palm,—and he slowly closed his own fingers
                    tightly over it. In a couple of minutes, his face expressed nothing but
                    astonishment.
                "'Is it possible!"' he muttered—"'can I believe—"' he broke off hurriedly,
                    interrupted by a chorus of voices exclaiming—"'Oh, what is it?—do
                    tell us!"' and so forth.
                "'May I speak, Madame?"' he inquired,  bending
                    towards Irene, with something of reverence.
                She smiled assent.
                "'If I am surprised,"' he then said slowly, "'it is scarcely to be wondered at,
                    for it is the first time I have ever chanced across the path of a woman whose
                    life was so perfectly ideal. Madame, to you I must address the words of
                    Hamlet—'pure as ice, chaste as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny.' Such an
                    existence as yours, stainless, lofty, active, hopeful, patient, and independent,
                    is a reproach to men, and few will love you for being so superior. Those who do
                    love you, will probably love in vain,—for the completion of your existence is
                    not here—but Elsewhere."'
                Her soft eyes dilated wonderingly,—the people immediately around her stared
                    vaguely at El-Râmi's dark impenetrable face.
                "'Then shall I be alone all my life as I am now?"' she asked, as he released her
                    hand.
                "'Are you sure you are alone?"' he said with a grave smile.—"'Are there not more
                    companions in the poet's so-called solitude, than in the crowded haunts of
                    men?"'
                
                She met his earnest glance, and her own face grew radiant with a certain sweet
                    animation that made it very lovely.
                "'You are right,"' she replied simply—"'I see you understand."'
                Then with a graceful salutation, she prepared to move away—Roy Ainsworth pressed
                    up close to her.
                "'Are you satisfied with your fortune, Madame Vassilius?"' he asked rather
                    querulously.
                "'Indeed I am,"' she answered. "'Why should I not be?"'
                "'If loneliness is a part of it,"' he said audaciously, "'I suppose you will
                    never marry?"'
                "'I suppose not,"' she said with a ripple of laughter in her voice.—"'I fear I
                    should never be able to acknowledge a man my superior!"'
                She left him then, and he stood for a moment looking after her with a vexed
                    air,—then he turned anew towards El-Râmi, who was just exchanging greetings with
                    Sir Frederick Vaughan. This latter young man appeared highly embarrassed and
                    nervous,  and seemed anxious to unburden
                    himself of something which apparently was difficult to utter. He stared at
                    Féraz, pulled the ends of his long moustache, and made scrappy remarks on
                    nothing in particular, while El-Râmi observed him with amused intentness.
                "'I say, do you remember the night we saw the new Hamlet?"' he blurted out at
                    last.—"'You know—I haven't seen you since—"'
                "'I remember most perfectly,"' said El-Râmi composedly—"''To be or not to be' was
                    the question then with you, as well as with Hamlet—but I suppose it is all
                    happily decided now as 'to be.'"'
                "'What is decided?"' stammered Sir Frederick—"'I mean, how do you know everything
                    is decided, eh?"'
                "'When is your marriage to take place?"' asked El-Râmi.
                Vaughan almost jumped.
                "'By Jove!—you are an uncanny fellow!"' he exclaimed.—"'However, as it happens,
                    you are right. I'm engaged to Miss Chester."'
                
                "'It is no surprise to me, but pray allow me to congratulate you!"' and El-Râmi
                    smiled.—"'You have lost no time about it, I must say! It is only a fortnight
                    since you first saw the lady at the theatre. Well!—confess me a true
                    prophet!"'
                Sir Frederick looked uncomfortable, and was about to enter into an argument
                    concerning the pros and cons of prophetic insight, when Lady Melthorpe
                    suddenly emerged from the circling whirlpool of her fashionable guests and
                    sailed towards them with a swan-like grace and languor.
                "'I cannot find the dear Baroness,"' she said plaintively. "'She is so much in
                    demand! Do you know, my dear El-Râmi, she is really almost as wonderful as you
                    are! Not quite—oh, not quite, but nearly! She can tell you all your past and
                    future by the lines of your hand, in the most astonishing manner! Can you do
                    that also?"'
                El-Râmi laughed.
                "'It is a gipsy's trick,"' he said,—"'and the bonâ-fide gipsies who practise it in country lanes for the
                    satisfaction of servantgirls, get arrested by the police for 'fortune-  telling.' The gipsies of the London
                    drawing-rooms escape scot-free.'"
                "'Oh, you are severe!"' said Lady Melthorpe, shaking her finger at him with an
                    attempt at archness—"'You are really very severe! You must not be hard on our
                    little amusements,—you know in this age, we are all so very much interested in
                    the supernatural!"'
                El-Râmi grew paler, and a slight shudder shook his frame. The Supernatural! How
                    lightly people talked of that awful Something, that like a formless Shadow waits
                    behind the portals of the grave!—that Something that evinced itself, suggested
                    itself, nay, almost declared itself, in spite of his own doubts, in the
                    momentary contact of a hand with his own, as in the case of Irene Vassilius. For
                    in that contact he had received a faint, yet decided thrill through his nerves—a
                    peculiar sensation which he recognised as a warning of something spiritually
                    above himself,—and this had compelled him to speak of an "'Elsewhere"' for her,
                    though for himself he persisted in nourishing the doubt that an "'Elsewhere"'
                    existed. Roy  Ainsworth, the artist, observing
                    him closely, noted how stern and almost melancholy was the expression of his
                    handsome dark face,—then glancing from him to his brother, was surprised at the
                    marked difference between the two. The frank, open, beautiful features of Féraz
                    seemed to invite confidence, and acting on the suggestion made to him by Madame
                    Vassilius, he spoke abruptly.
                "'I wish you would sit to me,"' he said.
                "'Sit to you? For a picture, do you mean?"' And Féraz looked delighted yet
                    amazed.
                "'Yes. You have just the face I want. Are you in town?—can you spare the
                    time?"'
                "'I am always with my brother"'—began Féraz hesitatingly.
                El-Râmi heard him, and smiled rather sadly.
                "'Féraz is his own master,"' he said gently, "'and his time is quite at his own
                    disposal."'
                "'Then come and let us talk it over,"' said Ainsworth, taking Féraz by the arm.
                    "'I'll pilot you through this crowd, and we'll make for some quiet corner where
                    we can sit down. Come along!"'
                
                Out of old habit Féraz glanced at his brother for permission, but El-Râmi's head
                    was turned away; he was talking to Lord Melthorpe. So, through the brilliant
                    throng of fashionable men and women, many of whom turned to stare at him as he
                    passed, Féraz went, half-eager, half-reluctant, his large fawn-like eyes
                    flashing an innocent wonderment on the scene around him,—a scene different from
                    everything to which he had been accustomed. He was uncomfortably conscious that
                    there was something false and even deadly beneath all this glitter and show,—but
                    his senses were dazzled for the moment, though the poet-soul of him
                    instinctively recoiled from the noise and glare and restless movement of the
                    crowd. It was his first entry into so-called "'society"';—and, though attracted
                    and interested, he was also somewhat startled and abashed—for he felt
                    instinctively that he was thrown upon his own resources,—that, for the present
                    at any rate, his brother's will no longer influenced him, and with the sudden
                    sense of liberty came the sudden sense of fear.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                TOWARDS midnight the expected Royal Personage came and
                    went; fatigued but always amiable, he shed the sunshine of his stereotyped smile
                    on Lady Melthorpe's "'crush"'—shook hands with his host and hostess, nodded
                    blandly to a few stray acquaintances, and went through all the
                        dreary, duties of social boredom heroically, though he was pining
                    for his bed more wearily than any work-worn digger of the soil. He made his way
                    out more quickly than he came in, and with his departure a great many of the
                    more "'snobbish"' among the fashionable set disappeared also, leaving the rooms
                    freer and cooler for their absence. People talked less loudly and
                    assertively,—little groups began to gather in corners and  exchange friendly chit-chat,—men who had been
                    standing all the evening found space to sit down beside their favoured fair
                    ones, and indulge themselves in talking a little pleasant nonsense,—even the
                    hostess herself was at last permitted to occupy an arm-chair and take a few
                    moments' rest. Some of the guests had wandered into the music-saloon, a quaintly
                    decorated oak-panelled apartment which opened out from the largest drawing-room.
                    A string band had played there till Royalty had come and gone, but now "'sweet
                    harmony"' no longer "'wagged her silver tongue,"' for the musicians were at
                    supper. The grand piano was open, and Madame Vassilius stood near it, idly
                    touching the ivory keys now and then with her small white, sensitive-looking
                    fingers. Close beside her, comfortably ensconced in a round deep chair, sat a
                    very stout old lady with a curiously large hairy face and a beaming expression
                    of eye, who appeared to have got into her pink silk gown by some cruelly
                    unnatural means, so tightly was she laced, and so much did she seem in danger of
                    bursting. She perspired profusely and  smiled
                    perpetually, and frequently stroked the end of her very pronounced moustache
                    with quite a mannish air. This was the individual for whom Lady Melthorpe had
                    been searching,—the Baroness von Denkwald, noted for her skill in palmistry.
                "'Ach! it is warm!"' she said in her strong German accent, giving an observant
                    and approving glance at Irene's white-draped form.—"'You are ze one womans zat
                    is goot to look at. A peach mit ice-cream,—dot is yourself."'
                Irene smiled pensively, but made no answer.
                The Baroness looked at her again, and fanned herself rapidly.
                "'It is sometings bad mit you?"' she asked at last.—"'You look sorrowful? Zat
                    Eastern mans—he say tings disagreeable? You should pelieve me,—I
                    have told you of your hand—ach! what a fortune!—splendid!—fame,—money, title,—a
                    grand marriage—"'
                Irene lifted her little hand from the keyboard of the piano, and looked curiously
                    at the lines in her pretty palm.
                "'Dear Baroness, there must be some 
                        mis-
                        mistake
                    
                     take,"' she said slowly.—"'I was a lonely
                    child,—and some people say that as you begin, so will you end. I shall never
                    marry—I am a lonely woman, and it will always be so."'
                "'Always, always—not at all!"' and the Baroness shook her large head obstinately.
                    "'You will marry; and Gott in Himmel save you from a husband such as mine! He is
                    dead—oh yes—a goot ting;—he is petter off—and so am I. Moch petter!"'
                And she laughed, the rise and fall of her ample neck causing quite a cracking
                    sound in the silk of her bodice.
                Madame Vassilius smiled again,—and then again grew serious. She was thinking of
                    the "'Elsewhere"' that El-Râmi had spoken of,—she had noticed that all he said
                    had seemed to be uttered involuntarily,—and that he had hesitated strangely
                    before using the word "'Elsewhere."' She longed to ask him one or two more
                    questions,—and scarcely had the wish formed itself in her mind, than she saw him
                    advancing from the drawing-room, in company with Lord Melthorpe, Sir Frederick
                    Vaughan, and the pretty frivolous  Idina
                    Chester, who, regardless of all that poets write concerning the unadorned
                    simplicity of youth, had decked herself, American fashion, with diamonds enough
                    for a dowager.
                "'It's too lovely!"' the young lady was saying as she entered.—"'I think, Mr.
                    El-Râmi, you have made me out a most charming creature! 
                        
                        '
                    Unemotional, harmless and innocently worldly'—that was it, wasn't it?
                        'Well now, I think that's splendid! I had an idea you were going
                    to find out something horrid about me;—I'm so glad I'm harmless! You're sure I'm
                    harmless?"'
                "'Quite sure!"' said El-Râmi with a slight smile. "'And there you possess a great
                    superiority over most women."'
                And he stepped forward in obedience to Lady Melthorpe's signal, to be introduced
                    to the 'dear' Baroness, whose shrewd little eyes dwelt upon him curiously.
                "'Do you believe in palmistry?"' she asked him, after the ordinary greetings were
                    exchanged.
                "'I'm afraid not,"' he answered politely—"'though I am acquainted with the rules
                    of the art as practised in the East, and I know  that many odd coincidences do occur. But,—as an example—take my
                    hand—I am sure you can make nothing of it."'
                He held out his open palm for her inspection—she bent over it, and uttered an
                    exclamation of surprise. There were none of the usual innumerable little
                    criss-cross lines upon it—nothing, in fact, but two deep dents from left to
                    right, and one well-marked line running from the wrist to the centre.
                "'It is unnatural!"' cried the Baroness in amazement.—"'It is a malformation!
                    There is no hand like it!"'
                "'I believe not,"' answered El-Râmi composedly.—"'As I told you, you can learn
                    nothing from it—and yet my life has not been without its adventures. This hand
                    of mine is my excuse for not accepting palmistry as an absolutely proved
                    science."'
                "'Must everything be 'proved' for you?"' asked Irene Vassilius suddenly.
                "'Assuredly, Madame!"'
                "'Then have you 'proved' the Elsewhere of which you spoke to me?"'
                El-Râmi flushed a little,—then paled again.
                
                "'Madame, the message of your inner spirit, as conveyed first through the
                    electric medium of the brain, and then through the magnetism of your touch, told
                    me of an 'Elsewhere.' I may not personally or positively know of any
                    'elsewhere,' than this present state of being,—but your interior Self expects an
                    'Elsewhere,'—apparently knows of it better than I do, and conveys that
                    impression and knowledge to me, apart from any consideration as to whether I may
                    be fitted to understand or receive it."'
                These words were heard with evident astonishment by the little group of people
                    who stood by, listening.
                "'Dear me! How ve—ry curious!"' murmured Lady Melthorpe.—"'And we
                    have always looked upon dear Madame Vassilius as quite a free-thinker,"'—here
                    she smiled apologetically, as Irene lifted her serious eyes and looked at her
                    steadily—"'I mean, as regards the next world and all those interesting subjects.
                    In some of her books, for instance, she is terribly severe on the clergy."'
                "'Not more so than many of them deserve,  I am
                    sure,"' said El-Râmi with sudden heat and asperity.—"'It was not Christ's
                    intention, I believe, that the preachers of His Gospel should drink and hunt,
                    and make love to their neighbours' wives ad
                        libitum, which is what a great many of them do. The lives of the
                    clergy nowadays offer very few worthy examples to the laity."'
                Lady Melthorpe coughed delicately and warningly. She did not like plain
                    speaking,—she had a "'pet clergyman"' of her own,—moreover, she had been bred up
                    in the provinces among "'county"' folk, some of whom still believe that at one
                    period of the world's history "'God"' was always wanting the blood of bulls and
                    goats to smell "'as a sweet savour in His nostrils."' She herself preferred to
                    believe in the possibility of the Deity's having "'nostrils,"' rather than take
                    the trouble to consider the effect of His majestic Thought as evinced in the
                    supremely perfect order of the Planets and Solar Systems.
                El-Râmi, however, went on regardlessly.
                "'Free-thinkers,"' he said, "'are for the most part truth-seekers. If everybody
                    gave way  to the foolish credulity attained to
                    by the believers in the 'Mahatmas' for instance, what an idiotic condition the
                    world would be in! We want free-thinkers,—as many as we can get,—to help us to
                    distinguish between the False and the True. We want to separate the Actual from
                    the Seeming in our lives,—and there is so much Seeming and so little Actual that
                    the process is difficult."'
                "'Why, dat is nonsense!"' said the Baroness von Denkenwald.—"'Mit a Fact, zere is
                    no mistake—you prove him. See!"' and she took up a silver penholder from the
                    table near her.—"'Here is a pen,—mit ink it is used to write—zere is what you
                    call ze Actual."'
                El-Râmi smiled.
                "'Believe me, my dear Madame, it is only a pen so long as you elect to view it in
                    that light. Allow me!"'—and he took it from her hand, fixing his eyes upon her
                    the while. "'Will you place the tips of your fingers—the fingers of the left
                    hand—yes—so! on my wrist? Thank you!"'—this, as she obeyed with a rather vague
                    smile on her big fat  face.—"'Now you will let
                    me have the satisfaction of offering you this spray of lilies—the first of the
                    season,"' and he gravely extended the silver penholder.—"'Is not the odour
                    delicious!"'
                "'Ach! it is heavenly!"' and the Baroness smelt at the penholder with an
                    inimitable expression of delight. Everybody began to laugh—El-Râmi silenced them
                    by a look.
                "'Madame, you are under some delusion,"' he said quietly.—"'You have no lilies in
                    your hand, only a penholder."'
                She laughed.
                "'You are very funny!"' she said—"'but I shall not be deceived. I shall wear my
                    lilies."'
                And she endeavoured to fasten the penholder in the front of her bodice,—when
                    suddenly El-Râmi drew his hand away from hers. A startled expression passed over
                    her face, but in a minute or two she recovered her equanimity and twirled the
                    penholder placidly between her fingers.
                "'Zere is what you call ze Actual,"' she said, taking up the conversation where
                    it had previously been interrupted.—"'A 
                        pen-
                        penholder
                    
                     holder is always a penholder—you can make
                    nothing more of it."'
                But here she was surrounded by the excited onlookers—a flood of explanations
                    poured upon her, as to how she had taken that same penholder for a spray of
                    lilies, and so forth, till the old lady grew quite hot and angry.
                "'I shall not pelieve you!"' she said indignantly.—"'It is impossible. You haf a
                    joke—but I do not see it. Irene"'—and she looked appealingly to Madame
                    Vassilius, who had witnessed the whole scene—"'it is not true, is it?"'
                "'Yes, dear Baroness, it is true,"' said Irene soothingly.—"'But it is a nothing
                    after all. Your eyes were deceived for the moment—and Mr. El-Râmi has shown us
                    very cleverly, by scientific exposition, how the human sight can be deluded—he
                    conveyed an impression of lilies to your brain, and you saw lilies accordingly.
                    I quite understand,—it is only through the brain that we receive any sense of
                    sight. The thing is easy of comprehension, though it seems wonderful."'
                
                "'It is devilry!"' said the Baroness solemnly, getting up and shaking out her
                    voluminous pink train with a wrathful gesture.
                "'No, Madame,"' said El-Râmi earnestly, with a glance at her which somehow had
                    the effect of quieting her ruffled feelings. "'It is merely science. Science was
                    looked upon as 'devilry' in ancient times,—but we in our generation are more
                    liberal-minded."'
                "'But what shall it lead to, all zis science?"' demanded the Baroness, still with
                    some irritation.—"'I see not any use in it. If one deceive ze eye so quickly, it
                    is only to make peoples angry to find demselves such fools!"'
                "'Ah, my dear lady, if we could all know to what extent exactly we could be
                    fooled,—not only as regards our sight, but our other senses and passions, we
                    should be wiser and more capable of self-government than we are. Every step that
                    helps us to the attainment of such knowledge is worth the taking."'
                "'And you have taken so many of those steps,"' said Irene Vassilius, "'that I
                    suppose it would be difficult to deceive you?"'
                "'I am only human, Madame,"' returned El-Râmi, with a faint touch of bitterness
                    in  his tone, "'and therefore I am capable of
                    being led astray by my own emotions as others are."'
                "'Are we not getting too analytical?"' asked Lord Melthorpe cheerily. "'Here is
                    Miss Chester wanting to know where your brother Féraz is. She only caught a
                    glimpse of him in the distance,—and she would like to make his closer
                    acquaintance."'
                "'He went with Mr. Ainsworth,"' began El-Râmi.
                "'Yes—I saw them together in the conservatory,"' said Lady Melthorpe. "'They were
                    deep in conversation—but it is time they gave us a little of their company—I'll
                    go and fetch them here."'
                She went, but almost immediately returned, followed by the two individuals in
                    question. Féraz looked a little flushed and excited,—Roy Ainsworth calm and
                    nonchalant as usual.
                "'I've asked your brother to come and sit to me to-morrow,"' the latter said,
                    addressing himself at once to El-Râmi. "'He is quite willing to oblige me,—and I
                    presume you have no objection?"'
                
                "'Not the least in the world!"' responded El-Râmi with apparent readiness, though
                    the keen observer might have detected a slight ring of satirical coldness in his
                    tone.
                "'He is a curious fellow,"' continued Roy, looking at Féraz where he stood, going
                    through the formality of an introduction to Miss Chester, whose bold bright eyes
                    rested upon him in frank and undisguised admiration. "'He seems to know nothing
                    of life."'
                "'What do you call 'life'?"' demanded El-Râmi, with harsh abruptness.
                "'Why, life as we men live it, of course,"' answered Roy, complacently.
                "''Life, as we men live it!'"' echoed El-Râmi. "'By Heaven, there is nothing
                    viler under the sun than life lived so! The very beasts have a more decent and
                    self-respecting mode of behaviour,—and the everyday existence of an ordinary
                    'man about town' is low and contemptible as compared to that of an
                    honest-hearted Dog!"'
                Ainsworth lifted his languid eyes with a stare of amazement;—Irene Vassilius
                    smiled.
                "'I agree with you!"' she said softly.
                "'Oh, of course!"' murmured Roy 
                        sar-
                        sarcastically
                    
                     castically—"'Madame Vassilius agrees with
                    everything that points to, or suggests the utter worthlessness of Man!"'
                Her eyes flashed.
                "'Believe me,"' she said, with some passion, "'I would give worlds to be able to
                    honour and revere men,—and there are some whom I sincerely respect and
                    admire,—but I frankly admit that the majority of them awaken nothing in me but
                    the sentiment of contempt. I regret it, but I cannot help it."'
                "'You want men to be gods,"' said Ainsworth, regarding her with an indulgent
                    smile; "'and when they can't succeed, poor wretches, you are hard on them. You
                    are a born goddess, and to you it comes quite naturally to occupy a throne on
                    Mount Olympus, and gaze with placid indifference on all below,—but to others,
                    the process is difficult. For example, I am a groveller. I grovel round the base
                    of the mountain and rather like it. A valley is warmer than a summit,
                    always."'
                A faint sea-shell pink flush crept over Irene's cheeks, but she made no reply.
                    She was watching Féraz, round whom a bevy of 
                    pretty women were congregated, like nineteenth-century nymphs round a new
                    Eastern Apollo. He looked a little embarrassed, yet his very diffidence had an
                    indefinable grace and attraction about it which was quite novel and charming to
                    the jaded fashionable fair ones who for the moment made him their chief object
                    of attention. They were pressing him to give them some music, and he hesitated,
                    not out of any shyness to perform, but simply from a sense of wonder as to how
                    such a spiritual, impersonal and divine thing as Music could be made to assert
                    itself in the midst of so much evident frivolity. He looked appealingly at his
                    brother,—but El-Râmi regarded him not. He understood this mute avoidance of his
                    eyes,—he was thrown upon himself to do exactly as he chose,—and his sense of
                    pride stimulated him to action. Breaking from the ring of his fair admirers, he
                    advanced towards the piano.
                "'I will play a simple prelude,"' he said, "'and if you like it, you shall hear
                    more."'
                There was an immediate silence. Irene Vassilius moved a little apart and sat on a
                         low divan, her hands clasped idly in her
                    lap;—near her stood Lord Melthorpe, Roy Ainsworth, and El-Râmi;—Sir Frederick
                    Vaughan and his fiancée, Idina Chester, occupied what is known as a "'flirtation
                    chair"' together; several guests flocked in from the drawing-rooms, so that the
                    salon was comparatively well-filled. Féraz poised his delicate and supple hands
                    on the keyboard,—and then—why, what then? Nothing!—only music!—music divinely
                    pure and sweet as a lark's song,—music that spoke of things as yet undeclared in
                    mortal language,—of the mystery of an angel's tears—of the joy of a rose in
                    bloom,—of the midsummer dreams of a lily enfolded within its green
                    leaf-pavilion,—of the love-messages carried by silver beams from
                    bridegroom-stars to bride-satellites,—of a hundred delicate and wordless marvels
                    the music talked eloquently in rounded and mystic tone. And gradually, but
                    invincibly, upon all those who listened, there fell the dreamy nameless spell of
                    perfect harmony,—they did not understand, they could not grasp the far-off
                    heavenly meanings which the sounds 
                        con-
                        conveyed
                    
                     veyed, but they knew and felt such music was
                    not earthly. The quest of gold, or thirst of fame, had nothing to do with such
                    composition—it was above and beyond all that. When the delicious melody ceased,
                    it seemed to leave an emptiness in the air,—an aching regret in the minds of the
                    audience; it had fallen like dew on arid soil, and there were tears in many
                    eyes, and passionate emotions stirring many hearts, as Féraz pressed his
                    finger-tips with a velvet-like softness on the closing chord. Then came a burst
                    of excited applause which rather startled him from his dreams. He looked round
                    with a faint smile of wonderment, and this time chanced to meet his brother's
                    gaze earnestly fixed upon him. Then an idea seemed to occur to him, and playing
                    a few soft notes by way of introduction, he said aloud, almost as though he were
                    talking to himself—
                "'There are in the world's history a few old legends and stories, which, whether
                    they are related in prose or rhyme, seem to set themselves involuntarily to
                    music. I will tell you one now, if you care to hear it,—the Story of the Priest
                    Philemon."'
                
                There was a murmur of delight and expectation, followed by profound silence as
                    before.
                Féraz lifted his eyes,—bright stag-like eyes, now flashing with warmth and
                    inspiration,—and pressing the piano pedals, he played a few slow solemn chords
                    like the opening bars of a church chant; then, in a soft, rich, perfectly
                    modulated voice, he began.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                "'LONG, long ago, in a far-away province of the
                    Eastern world, there was once a priest named Philemon. Early and late he toiled
                    to acquire wisdom—early and late he prayed and meditated on things divine and
                    unattainable. To the Great Unknown his aspirations turned; with all the ardour
                    of his soul he sought to penetrate behind the mystic veil of the Supreme Centre
                    of creation; and the joys and sorrows, hopes and labours of mortal existence
                    seemed to him but worthless and contemptible trifles when compared with the
                    eternal marvels of the incomprehensible Hereafter, on which, in solitude, he
                    loved to dream and ponder."'
                Here Féraz paused,—and touching the keys of the piano with a caressing lightness,
                         played a soft minor melody, which like a
                    silver thread of sound, accompanied his next words.
                "'And so, by gradual and almost imperceptible degrees, the wise priest Philemon
                    forgot the world;—forgot men, and women, and little children,—forgot the
                    blueness of the skies, the verdure of the fields,—forgot the grace of daisies
                    growing in the grass,—forgot the music of sweet birds singing in the
                    boughs,—forgot indeed everything, except—himself!—and his prayers, and his
                    wisdom, and his burning desire to approach more closely every hour to that
                    wondrous goal of the Divine from whence all life doth come, and to which all
                    life must, in due time, return."'
                Here the musical accompaniment changed to a plaintive tenderness.
                "'But by-and-by, news of the wise priest Philemon began to spread in the town
                    near where he had his habitation,—and people spoke of his fastings and his
                    watchings with awe and wonder, with hope and fear,—until at last there came a
                    day when a great crowd of the sick and sorrowful and oppressed, surrounded his
                    abode, and called upon him to pray for them, and give them comfort.
                
                "''Bestow upon us some of the Divine Consolation!' they cried,
                    kneeling in the dust and weeping as they spoke—'for we are weary and worn with
                    labour,—we suffer with harsh wounds of the heart and spirit,—many of us have
                    lost all that makes life dear. Pity us, O thou wise servant of the Supreme—and
                    tell us out of thy stores of heavenly wisdom whether we shall ever regain the
                    loves that we have lost!'
                "'Then the priest Philemon rose up in haste and wrath, and going out before them
                    said—
                "''Depart from me, ye accursed crew of wicked worldlings! Why have ye sought me
                    out, and what have I to do with your petty miseries? Lo, ye have brought the
                    evils of which ye complain upon yourselves, and justice demands that ye should
                    suffer. Ask not from me one word of pity—seek not from me any sympathy for sin.
                    I have severed myself from ye all, to escape pollution,—my life belongs to God,
                    not to Humanity!'
                "'And the people hearing him were wroth, and went their way homewards, sore at
                    heart,  and all uncomforted. And Philemon the
                    priest, fearing lest they might seek him out again, departed from that place for
                    ever, and made for himself a hut in the deep thickness of the forest where never
                    a human foot was found to wander save his own. Here in the silence and deep
                    solitude he resolved to work and pray, keeping his heart and spirit sanctified
                    from every soiling touch of nature that could separate his thoughts from the
                    Divine."'
                Again the music changed, this time to a dulcet rippling passage of notes like the
                    slowing of a mountain stream,—and Féraz continued,—
                "'One morning, as, lost in a rapture of holy meditation, he prayed his daily
                    prayer, a small bird perched upon his window-sill, and began to sing. Not a loud
                    song, but a sweet song—full of the utmost tenderness and playful warbling,—a
                    song born out of the leaves and grasses and gentle winds of heaven,—as delicate
                    a tune as ever small bird sang. The priest Philemon listened, and his mind
                    wandered. The bird's singing was sweet; oh, so sweet, that it recalled to him
                    many things he had imagined long ago forgotten,—almost  he heard his mother's voice again,—and the blithe and
                    gracious days of his early youth suggested themselves to his memory like the
                    lovely fragments of a poem once familiar, but now scarce remembered. Presently
                    the bird flew away, and the priest Philemon awoke as from a dream,—his prayer
                    had been interrupted; his thoughts had been drawn down to earth from heaven, all
                    through the twittering of a foolish feathered thing not worth a farthing! Angry
                    with himself he spent the day in penitence,—and on the following morning betook
                    himself to his devotions with more than his usual ardour. Stretched on his
                    prayer-mat he lay entranced; when suddenly a low sweet trill of sound broke
                    gently through the silence,—the innocent twittering voice of the little bird
                    once more aroused him,—first to a sense of wonder, then of wrath. Starting up
                    impatiently he looked about him, and saw the bird quite close, within his
                    reach,—it had flown inside his hut, and now hopped lightly over the floor
                    towards him, its bright eyes full of fearless confidence, its pretty wings still
                    quivering with the fervour of its song. Then the priest  Philemon seized a heavy oaken staff, and slew it
                    where it stood with one remorseless blow, and flung the little heap of ruffled
                    feathers out into the woodland, saying fiercely—
                "''Thou, at least, shalt never more disturb my prayers!'
                "'And even as he thus spoke, a great light shone forth suddenly, more dazzling
                    than the brightness of the day, and lo! an Angel stood within the hut, just
                    where the dead bird's blood had stained the floor. And the priest Philemon fell
                    upon his face and trembled greatly, for the Vision was more glorious than the
                    grandest of his dreams. And a Voice called aloud, saying—
                "''Philemon, why hast thou slain My messenger?'
                "'And Philemon looked up in fear and wonderment, answering—
                "''Dread Lord, what messenger? I have slain nothing but a bird.'
                "'And the voice spake again. saying—
                "''O thou remorseless priest!—knowest thou not that every bird in the forests is
                    Mine,—every leaf on the trees is Mine,—every blade of grass and every flower is
                    Mine, and is a  part of Me! The song of that
                    slain bird was sweeter than thy many prayers;—and when thou didst listen to its
                    voice thou wert nearer Heaven than thou hast ever been! Thou hast rebelled
                    against My law;—in rejecting Love, thou hast rejected Me,—and when thou didst
                    turn the poor and needy from thy doors, refusing them all comfort, even so did I
                    turn My Face from thee and refuse thy petitions. Wherefore hear now thy
                    punishment. For the space of a thousand years thou shalt live within this
                    forest;—no human eye shall ever find thee,—no human foot shall ever track
                    thee—no human voice shall ever sound upon thy ears. No companions shalt thou
                    have but birds and beasts and flowers,—from these shalt thou learn wisdom, and
                    through thy love of these alone shalt thou make thy peace with Heaven! Pray no
                    more,—fast no more,—for such things count but little in the eternal
                    reckonings,—but love!—and learn to make thyself beloved, even by
                    the least and lowest, and by this shalt thou penetrate at last the mystery of
                    the Divine!'
                "'The voice ceased—the glory vanished  and when
                    the priest Philemon raised his eyes, he was alone."'
                Here, altering by a few delicate modulations the dreamy character of the music he
                    had been improvising, Féraz reverted again to the quaint, simple and solemn
                    chords with which he had opened the recitation.
                "'Humbled in spirit, stricken at heart, conscious of the justice of his doom, yet
                    working as one not without hope, Philemon began his heaven-appointed task. And
                    to this day travellers' legends tell of a vast impenetrable solitude, a forest
                    of giant trees, where never a human step has trod, but where it is said, strange
                    colonies of birds and beasts do congregate,—where rare and marvellous plants and
                    flowers flourish in their fairest hues,—where golden bees and dazzling
                    butterflies gather by thousands,—where all the songsters of the air make the
                    woods musical,—where birds of passage, outward or homeward bound, rest on their
                    way, sure of a pleasant haven,—and where all the beautiful, wild, and timid
                    inhabitants of field, forest and mountain, are at peace together, mutually
                    content in an Eden of  their own. There is a
                    guardian of the place,—so say the country people,—a Spirit, thin and white, and
                    silver-haired, who understands the language of the birds, and knows the secrets
                    of the flowers, and in whom all the creatures of the woods confide—a mystic
                    being whose strange life has lasted nearly a thousand years. Generations have
                    passed—cities and empires have crumbled to decay,—and none remember him who was
                    once called Philemon,—the 'wise' priest, grown wise indeed at last, with the
                    only Wisdom God ever sanctifies—the Wisdom of Love."'
                With a soft impressive chord the music ceased,—the story was ended,—and Féraz
                    rose from the piano to be surrounded at once by a crowd of admirers, all vying
                    with each other in flattering expressions of applause and delight; but though he
                    received these compliments with unaffected and courteous grace enough, his eyes
                    perpetually wandered to his brother's face,—that dark, absorbed beloved
                    face,—yes, beloved!—for, rebel as he might against El-Râmi's inflexible will and
                    despotic power, Féraz knew he could never wrench from out his heart the deep  affection and reverence for him which were
                    the natural result of years of tender and sympathetic intercourse. If his
                    brother had commanded him, he had also loved him,—there could be no doubt of
                    that. Was he displeased or unhappy now, that he looked so sad and absorbed in
                    gloomy and perplexed thought? A strange pained emotion stirred Féraz's sensitive
                    soul,—some intangible vague sense of separation seemed to have arisen between
                    himself and El-Râmi, and he grew impatient with this brilliant assembly of
                    well-dressed chattering folk, whose presence prevented him from giving vent to
                    the full expression of his feelings. Lady Melthorpe talked to him in dulcet
                    languid tones, fanning herself the while, and telling him sweetly what a
                    "'wonderful touch"' he had,—what an "'exquisite speaking voice"'—and so forth,
                    all which elegantly turned phrases he heard as in a dream. As soon as he could
                    escape from her and those of her friends who were immediately round him, he made
                    his way to El-Râmi and touched his arm.
                "'Let me stay beside you!"' he said in a low tone in which there was a slight
                    accent of entreaty.
                
                El-Râmi turned, and looked at him kindly.
                "'Dear boy, you had better make new friends while you can, lest the old be taken
                    from you."'
                "'Friends!"' echoed Féraz—"'Friends—here?"' he gave a gesture more
                    eloquent than speech, of doubt and disdain,—then continued, "'Might we not go
                    now? Is it not time to return home and sleep?"'
                El-Râmi smiled.
                "'Nay, are we not seeing life? Here we are among pretty women, well-bred men—the
                    rooms are elegant,—and the conversation is as delightfully vague and nearly as
                    noisy as the chattering of monkeys—yet with all these advantages, you talk of
                    sleep!"'
                Féraz laughed a little.
                "'Yes, I am tired,"' he said. "'It does not seem to me real, all this—there is
                    something shadowy and unsubstantial about it. I think sleep is better."'
                At that moment Irene Vassilius came up to them.
                "'I am just going,"' she said, letting her soft serious eyes dwell on Féraz with
                    interest, "'but I feel I must thank you for your story  of the 'Priest Philemon.' Is it your own idea?—or
                    does such a legend exist?"'
                "'Nothing is really new,"' replied Féraz—"'but such as it is, it is my own
                    invention."'
                "'Then you are a poet and musician at one and the same time,"' said Irene. "'It
                    seems a natural combination of gifts, yet the two do not always go together. I
                    hope"'—she now addressed herself to El-Râmi—"'I hope very much you will come and
                    see me, though I'm afraid I'm not a very popular person. My friends are few, so
                    I cannot promise you much entertainment. Indeed, as a rule, people do not like
                    me."'
                "'I like you!"' said Féraz, quickly and impulsively.
                She smiled.
                "'Yes? That is good of you. And I believe you, for you are too unworldly to deal
                    in flatteries. But, I assure you, that, generally speaking, literary women are
                    never social favourites."'
                "'Not even when they are lovely like you?"' questioned Féraz, with simple
                    frankness.
                She coloured at the evident sincerity of his 
                    admiration and the boyish openness with which it was thus expressed. Then she
                    laughed a little.
                "'Loveliness is not acknowledged as at all existent in literary females,"' she
                    replied lightly, yet with a touch of scorn,—"'even if they do possess any
                    personal charm, it only serves as a peg for the malicious to hang a slander on.
                    And of the two sexes, men are most cruel to a woman who dares to think for
                    herself."'
                "'Are you sure of that, Madame?"' asked El-Râmi gently. "'May not this be an
                    error of your judgment?"'
                "'I would that it were!"' she said with intense expression—"'Heaven knows how
                    sincerely I should rejoice to be proved wrong! But I am not wrong. Men always
                    judge women as their inferiors, not only physically (which they are) but
                    mentally (which they are not), and always deny them an independent soul and
                    independent emotions,—the majority of men, indeed, treat them pretty much as a
                    sort of superior cattle;—but, nevertheless, there is a something in what the
                    French call 'L'Eternel Feminin.'  Women are
                    distinctly the greatest sufferers in all suffering creation,—and I have often
                    thought that for so much pain and so much misjudgment, endured often with such
                    heroic silence and uncomplaining fortitude, the compensation will be sweeter and
                    more glorious than we, half drowned in our own tears, can as yet hope for, or
                    imagine!"'
                She paused—her eyes were dark with thought and full of a dreamy sorrow,—then,
                    smiling gently, she held out her hand.
                "'I talk too much, you will say—women always do! Come and see me if you feel
                    disposed—not otherwise; I will send you my card through Lady Melthorpe—meantime,
                    good-night!"'
                El-Râmi took her hand, and as he pressed it in his own, felt again that curious
                    thrill which had before communicated itself to his nerves through the same
                    contact.
                "'Surely you must be a visionary, Madame!"' he said abruptly and with a vague
                    sense of surprise—"'and you see things not at all of this world!"'
                Her faint roseate colour deepened, giving singular beauty to her face.
                
                "'What a tell-tale hand mine is!"' she replied, withdrawing it slowly from his
                    clasp. "'Yes—you are right,—if I could not see things higher than this world, I
                    could not endure my existence for an hour. It is because I feel the Future so
                    close about me that I have courage for, and indifference to, the Present."'
                With that, she left them, and both El-Râmi and Féraz followed her graceful
                    movements with interested eyes, as she glided through the rooms in her snowy
                    trailing robes, with the frosty flash of diamonds in her hair, till she had
                    altogether disappeared; then the languid voice of Lady Melthorpe addressed
                    them.
                "'Isn't she an odd creature, that Irene Vassilius? So quaint and peculiar in her
                    ideas! People detest her, you know—she is so dreadfully clever!"'
                "'There could not be a better reason for hatred!"' said El-Râmi.
                "'You see, she says such unpleasant things,"' went on Lady Melthorpe,
                    complacently fanning herself,—"'she has such decided opinions, and will not
                    accommodate herself to people's  ways. I must
                    confess I always find her de trop,
                    myself."'
                "'She was your guest to-night,"' said Féraz suddenly, and with such a sternness
                    in his accent as caused her ladyship to look at him in blank surprise.
                "'Certainly! One must always ask a celebrity."'
                "'If one must always ask, then one is bound always to respect,"' said Féraz
                    coldly. "'In our code d'honneur, we never
                    speak ill of those who have partaken of our hospitality."'
                So saying, he turned on his heel and walked away with so much haughtiness of
                    demeanour that Lady Melthorpe stood as though rooted to the spot, staring
                    speechlessly after him. Then rousing herself, she looked at El-Râmi and shrugged
                    her shoulders.
                "'Really,"' she began,—"'really, Mr. El-Râmi, your brother's manner is very
                    strange—"'
                "'It is,"' returned El-Râmi quickly—"'I admit it. His behaviour is altogether
                    unpolished—and he is quite unaccustomed to society. I told Lord Melthorpe
                    so,—and I  was against his being invited here.
                    He says exactly what he thinks, without fear or favour, and in this regard is
                    really a mere barbarian! Allow me to apologize for him!"'
                Lady Melthorpe bowed stiffly,—she saw, or fancied she saw, a faint ironical smile
                    playing on El-Râmi's lips beneath his dark moustache. She was much annoyed,—the
                    idea of a "'boy"' like Féraz, presuming to talk to her, a leader of London
                    fashion, about a code d'honneur! The thing was
                    monstrous,—absurd! And as for Irene Vassilius, why should not she be talked
                    about?—she was a public person; a writer of books which Mrs. Grundy in her
                    church-going moods had voted as "'dangerous."' Truly Lady Melthorpe considered
                    she had just cause to be ruffled, and she began to regret having invited these
                    "'Eastern men,"' as she termed them, to her house at all. El-Râmi perceived her
                    irritation, but he made no further remark; and as soon as he could conveniently
                    do so, he took his formal leave of her. Quickly threading his way through the
                    now rapidly thinning throng, he sought out Féraz, whom he found in the hall
                    talking to Roy Ainsworth and  making final
                    arrangements for the sitting he was to give the artist next day.
                "'I should like to make a study of your head too,"' said Roy, with a keen glance
                    at El-Râmi as he approached—"'but I suppose you have no time."'
                "'No time—and still less inclination!"' responded El-Râmi laughingly; "'for I
                    have sworn that no 'counterfeit presentment' of my bodily form shall ever exist.
                    It would always be a false picture,—it would never be Me, because it would only
                    represent the Perishable, whilst I am the Imperishable."'
                "'Singular man!"' said Roy Ainsworth. "'What do you mean?"'
                "'What should I mean,"' replied El-Râmi quickly, "'save what all your religions
                    and churches mean, if in truth they have any meaning. Is there not something
                    else besides this fleshly covering? If you can paint the imagined Soul of a man
                    looking out of his eyes, you are a great artist,—but if you could paint the Soul
                    itself, stripped of its mortal disguise, radiant, ethereal, brilliant as
                    lightning, beautiful as dawn, you would be greater still. And the soul is the
                    Me,—  these features of mine, this Appearance,
                    is mere covering,—we want a Portrait, not a Costume."'
                "'Your argument applies to your brother as well as yourself,"' said Ainsworth,
                    wondering at the eloquent wildness of this strange El-Râmi's language, and
                    fascinated by it in spite of himself.
                "'Just so! Only the Earth-garment of Féraz is charming and becoming—mine is not.
                    It is a case of 'my hair is white but not with years'—the "'Prisoner of
                    Chillon"' sort of thing. Good-night!
                        '
                        '"
                    
                "'Good-night!"' and the artist shook hands warmly with both brothers, saying to
                    Féraz as he parted from him—"'I may expect you then to-morrow? You will not
                    fail?"'
                "'You may rely upon me!"' and Féraz nodded lightly in adieu, and followed El-Râmi
                    out of the house into the street, where they began to walk homeward together at
                    a rapid rate. As they went, by some mutual involuntary instinct they lifted
                    their eyes to the dense blue heavens, where multitudes of stars were brilliantly
                    visible. Féraz drew a long deep breath.
                
                "'There,"' he said, "'is the Infinite and Real,—what we have seen of life
                    to-night is finite and unreal."'
                El-Râmi made no reply.
                "'Do you not think so?"' persisted Féraz earnestly.
                "'I cannot say definitely what is Real and what is Unreal,"' said El-Râmi
                    slowly—"'both are so near akin. Féraz, are you aware you offended Lady Melthorpe
                    tonight?"'
                "'Why should she be offended? I only said just what I thought."'
                "'Good heavens, my dear boy, if you always go about saying just what you think,
                    you will find the world too hot to hold you. To say the least of it, you will
                    never be fit for society."'
                "'I don't want to be fit for it,"' said Féraz disdainfully, "'if Lady Melthorpe's
                    'at home' is a picture of it. I want to forget it,—the most of it, I mean. I
                    shall remember Madame Vassilius because she is sympathetic and interesting. But
                    for the rest!—my dearest brother, I am far happier with you."'
                
                El-Râmi took his arm gently.
                "'Yet you leave me to-morrow to gratify an artist's whim!"' he said. "'Have you
                    thought of that?"'
                "'Oh, but that is nothing—only an hour or two's sitting. He was so very anxious
                    that I could not refuse. Does it displease you?"'
                "'My dear Féraz, I am displeased at nothing. You complained of my authority over
                    you once—and I have determined you shall not complain again. Consider yourself
                    free."'
                "'I do not want my liberty,"' said Féraz, almost petulantly.
                "'Try it!"' responded El-Râmi with a smile and half a sigh. "'Liberty is
                    sweet,—but, like other things, it brings its own responsibilities."'
                They walked on till they had almost reached their own door.
                "'Your story of the priest Philemon was very quaint and pretty,"' said El-Râmi
                    then abruptly. "'You meant it as a sort of allegory for me, did you not?"'
                Féraz looked wistfully at him, but hesitated to reply.
                
                "'It does not quite fit me,"' went on El-Râmi gently. "'I am not impervious to
                    love—for I love you. Perhaps the angels will take that fact into
                    consideration, when they are settling my thousand or million years'
                    punishment."'
                There was a touch of quiet pathos in his voice which moved Féraz greatly, and he
                    could not trust himself to speak. When they entered their own abode, El-Râmi
                    said the usual "'Good-night"' in his usual kindly manner,—but Feraz reverently
                    stooped and kissed the hand extended to him,—the potent hand that had enriched
                    his life with poesy and dowered it with dreams.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                ALL the next day El-Râmi was alone. Féraz went out
                    early to fulfil the appointment made with Roy Ainsworth; no visitors called,—and
                    not even old Zaroba came near the study, where, shut up with his books and
                    papers, her master worked assiduously hour after hour, writing as rapidly as
                    hand and pen would allow, and satisfying his appetite solely with a few biscuits
                    dipped in wine. Just as the shadows of evening were beginning to fall, his long
                    solitude was disturbed by the sharp knock of a telegraph-messenger, who handed
                    him a missive which ran briefly thus—
                
                    "'Your brother stays to dine with me.—AINSWORTH."'
                
                
                El-Râmi crushed the paper in his hand, then flinging it aside, stood for a
                    moment, lost in meditation, with a sorrowful expression in his dark eyes.
                "'Ay me! the emptiness of the world!"' he murmured at last—"'I shall be left
                    alone, I suppose, as my betters are left, according to the rule of this
                    curiously designed and singularly unsatisfactory system of human life. What do
                    the young care for the solitude of their elders who have tended and loved them?
                    New thoughts, new scenes, new aspirations beckon them, and off they go like
                    birds on the wing,—never to return to the old nest or the old ways. I despise
                    the majority of women myself,—and yet I pity from my soul all those who are
                    mothers,—the miserable dignity and pathos of maternity are, in my opinion,
                    grotesquely painful. To think of the anguish the poor delicate wretches endure
                    in bringing children at all into the world,—then, the tenderness and watchful
                    devotion expended on their early years,—and then—why then, these same children
                    grow up for the most part into indifferent (when not entirely callous) men and
                    women, who  make their own lives as it seems
                    best to themselves, and almost forget to whom they owe their very existence. It
                    is hard—bitterly hard. There ought to be some reason for such a wild waste of
                    love and affliction. At present, however, I can see none."'
                He sighed deeply, and stared moodily into the deepening shadows.
                "'Loneliness is horrible!"' he said aloud, as though addressing some invisible
                    auditor. "'It is the chief terror of death,—for one must always die alone. No
                    matter how many friends and relatives stand weeping round the bed, one is
                    absolutely alone at the hour of death, for the stunned soul wanders
                    blindly 
                        "'out of sight,
                        Far off in a place where it is not heard."'
                     That solitary pause and shudder on the brink of the Unseen is fearful,—it
                    unnerves us all to think of it. If Love could help us,—but even Love grows faint
                    and feeble then."'
                As he mused thus, a strange vague longing came over him,—an impulse arising out
                    of be knew not what suggestion; and acting on 
                    his thought, he went suddenly and swiftly upstairs, and straight into the
                    chamber of Lilith. Zaroba was there, and rose from her accustomed corner
                    silently, and moved with a somewhat feeble step into the ante-room while El-Râmi
                    bent over the sleeping girl. Lovelier than ever she seemed that evening,—and as
                    he stooped above her, she stretched out her fair white arms and smiled. His
                    heart beat quickly,—he had, for the moment, ceased to analyze his own
                    feelings,—and he permitted himself to gaze upon her beauty and absorb it,
                    without, as usual, taking any thought of the scientific aspect of her
                    condition.
                
                        "'Tresses twisted by fairy fingers,
                        In which the light of the morning lingers!"'
                     he murmured, as he touched a rippling strand of the lovely hair that lay
                    spread like a fleece of gold floss silk on the pillow near him,—"'Poor
                    Lilith!—Sweet Lilith!"'
                As if responsive to his words, she turned slightly towards him, and felt the air
                    blindly with one wandering white hand. Gently he caught it and imprisoned it
                    within his own,—  then on a strange impulse,
                    kissed it. To his utter amazement she answered that touch as though it had been
                    a call.
                "'I am here, ... my Belovëd!"'
                He started, and an icy thrill ran through his veins;—that word "'Belovëd"' was a
                    sort of electric shock to his system, and sent a dizzying rush of blood to his
                    brain. What did she mean,—what could she mean? The last time she had addressed
                    him she had declared that he was not even her friend—now she called him her
                    "'beloved"'—as much to his amazement as his fear. Presently, however, he
                    considered that here perhaps was some new development of his experiment;—the
                    soul of Lilith might possibly be in closer communion with him than he had yet
                    imagined. But in spite of his attempt to reason away his emotions, he was
                    nervous, and stood by the couch silently, afraid to speak, and equally afraid to
                    move. Lilith was silent too. A long pause ensued, in which the usually subdued
                    tickings of the clock seemed to become painfully audible. El-Râmi's breath came
                    and went quickly,—he was singularly excited,—some subtle  warmth from the little hand he held, permeated his
                    veins, and a sense of such utter powerlessness possessed him as he had never
                    experienced before. What ailed him? He could not tell. Where was the iron force
                    of his despotic will? He seemed unable to exert it,—unable even to
                        think coherently while Lilith's hand thus rested in his. Had
                    she grown stronger than himself? A tingling tremor ran through him, as the
                    strange words of the monk's written warning suddenly recurred to his memory.
                "'Beware the end! With Lilith's love comes Lilith's freedom."'
                But Lilith smiled with placid sweetness, and still left her hand confidingly in
                    his; he held that hand, so warm and soft and white, and was loth to let it
                    go,—he studied the rapt expression of the beautiful face, the lovely curve of
                    the sweet shut lips, the delicately veined lids of the closed eyes,—and was
                    dimly conscious of a sense of vague happiness curiously intermingled with
                    terror. By-and-by he began to collect his ideas which had been so suddenly
                    scattered by that one word "'Belovëd,"'—and he resolved  to break the mystic silence that oppressed and
                    daunted him.
                "'Dreaming or waking, is she?"' he queried aloud, a little tremulously, and as
                    though he were talking to himself. "'She must be dreaming!"'
                "'Dreaming of joy!"' said Lilith softly, and with quick responsiveness—"'only
                    that Joy is no dream! I hear your voice,—I am conscious of your touch,—almost I
                    see you! The cloud hangs there between us still—but God is good,—He will remove
                    that cloud."'
                El-Râmi listened, perplexed and wondering.
                "'Lilith,"' he said in a voice that strove in vain to assume its wonted firmness
                    and authority—"'What say you of clouds,—you who are in the full radiance of a
                    light that is quenchless? Have you not told me of a glory that out-dazzles the
                    sun, in which you move and have your being,—then what do you know of
                    Shadow?"'
                "'Yours is the Shadow,"' replied Lilith—"'not mine! I would that I could lift it
                    from your eyes, that you might see the Wonder 
                    and the Beauty. Oh, cruel Shadow, that lies between my love and me!"'
                "'Lilith! Lilith!"' exclaimed El-Râmi in strange agitation—"'Why will you talk of
                    love?"'
                "'Do you not think of love?"' said Lilith—"'and must I not respond to your
                    innermost thought?"'
                "'Not always do you so respond, Lilith!"' said El-Râmi quickly, recovering
                    himself a little, and glad of an opportunity to bring back his mind to a more
                    scientific level. "'Often you speak of things I know not,—things that perhaps I
                    shall never know—"'
                "'Nay, you must know,"' said Lilith, with soft persistence. "'Every
                    unit of life in every planet is bound to know its Cause and Final Intention. All
                    is clear to me, and will be so to you, hereafter. You ask me of these things—I
                    tell you,—but you do not believe me;—you will never believe me till—the
                    end."'
                "'Beware the end!"' The words echoed themselves so distinctly in El-Râmi's mind
                    that he could almost have fancied they were 
                    spoken aloud in the room. "'What end?"' he asked eagerly.
                But to this Lilith answered nothing.
                He looked at the small sensitive hand he held, and stroking it gently, was about
                    to lay it back on her bosom, when all at once she pressed her fingers closely
                    over his palm, and sat upright, her delicate face expressive of the most intense
                    emotion, notwithstanding her closed eyes.
                "'Write!"' she said in a clear penetrating voice that sent silvery echoes through
                    the room—"'write these truths to the world you live in. Tell the people they all
                    work for Evil, and therefore Evil shall be upon them. What they sow, even that
                    shall they reap, with the measure they have used, it shall be measured to them
                    again. O wild world!—sad world!—world wherein the pride of wealth, the joy of
                    sin, the cruelty of avarice, the curse of selfishness, outweigh all pity, all
                    sympathy, all love! For this God's law of Compensation makes but one
                    return—Destruction. Wars shall prevail; plague and famine shall ravage the
                    nations;—young children shall murder the parents who bore  them; theft and rapine shall devastate the land. For
                    your world is striving to live without God,—and a world without God is a disease
                    that must die. Like a burnt-out star this Earth shall fall from its sphere and
                    vanish utterly—and its sister-planets shall know it no more. For when it is born
                    again, it will be new."'
                The words came from her lips with a sort of fervid eloquence which seemed to
                    exhaust her, for she grew paler and paler, and her head began to sink backward
                    on the pillow. El-Râmi gently put his arm round her to support her, and as he
                    did so, a kind of supernatural light irradiated her features.
                "'Believe me, O my Belovëd, believe the words of Lilith!"' she murmured. "'There
                    is but one Law leading to all Wisdom. Evil generates Evil, and contains within
                    itself its own retribution. Good generates good, and holds within itself the
                    germ of eternal reproduction. Love begets Love, and from Love is born
                    Immortality!"'
                Her voice grew fainter,—she sank entirely back on her pillow; yet once again her
                    lips moved and the word "'Immortality!"' floated  whisperingly forth like a sigh. El-Râmi drew his arm
                    away from her, and at the same instant disengaged his hand from her clasp. She
                    seemed bewildered at this, and for a minute or two, felt in the air as though
                    searching for some missing treasure,—then her arms fell passively on each side
                    of her, seemingly inert and lifeless. El-Râmi bent over her half curiously, half
                    anxiously,—his eyes dwelt on the ruby-like jewel that heaved gently up and down
                    on her softly rounded bosom,—he watched the red play of light around it, and on
                    the white satiny skin beneath,—and then,—all at once his sight grew dazzled and
                    his brain began to swim. How lovely she was!—how much more than lovely! And how
                    utterly she was his!—his, body and soul, and in his power! He was startled at
                    the tenour of his own unbidden thoughts,—whence, in God's name, came these new
                    impulses, these wild desires that fired his blood? ... Furious with himself for
                    what he deemed the weakness of his own emotions, he strove to regain the mastery
                    over his nerves,—to settle his mind once more in its usual attitude of cold
                    inflexibility and  indifferent composure,—but
                    all in vain. Some subtle chord in his mental composition had been touched
                    mysteriously, he knew not how, and had set all the other chords a-quivering,—and
                    he felt himself all suddenly to be as subdued and powerless as when his
                    mysterious visitor, the monk from Cyprus, had summoned up (to daunt him, as he
                    thought) the strange vision of an Angel in his room.
                Again he looked at Lilith;—again he resisted the temptation that assailed him to
                    clasp her in his arms, to shower a lover's kisses on her lips, and thus waken
                    her to the full bitter-sweet consciousness of earthly life,—till in the sharp
                    extremity of his struggle, and loathing himself for his own folly, he suddenly
                    dropped on his knees by the side of the couch and gazed with a vague wild
                    entreaty at the tranquil loveliness that lay there so royally enshrined.
                "'Have mercy, Lilith!"' he prayed half aloud, and scarcely conscious of his
                    words. "'If you are stronger in your weakness than I in my strength, have mercy!
                    Repel me,—distrust me, disobey me—but do not love me! Make me not as one of the
                    foolish for  whom a woman's smile, a woman's
                    touch, are more than life, and more than wisdom. O let me not waste the labour
                    of my days on a freak of passion!—let me not lose everything I have gained by
                    long study and research, for the mere wild joy of an hour! Lilith, Lilith!
                    Child, woman, angel!—whatever you are, have pity upon me! I dare not love you!
                    ... I dare not!"'
                So murmuring incoherently, he rose, and walking dizzily like a man abruptly
                    startled from deep sleep, he went straight out of the room, never looking back
                    once, else he might have seen how divinely, how victoriously Lilith smiled!
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                REACHING his study, he shut himself in and locked the
                    door,—and then sitting down, buried his head in his hands and fell to thinking.
                    Such odd thoughts too!—they came unbidden, and chased one another in and out of
                    his brain like will-o'-the-wisps in a wilderness. It was growing late, and Féraz
                    had not yet returned,—but he heeded not the hour, or his brother's continued
                    absence,—he was occupied in such a mental battle with his own inward forces as
                    made him utterly indifferent to external things. The question he chiefly asked
                    himself was this:—Of what use was all the science he had discovered and
                    mastered, if he was not exempt,—utterly exempt from the emotions common to the
                    most ignorant of men? His  pride had been that
                    he was "'above"' human nature,—that he was able to look down upon its trivial
                    joys and sorrows with a supreme and satiric scorn,—that he knew its ways so well
                    as to be able to calculate its various hesitating moves in all directions,
                    social and political, with very nearly exact accuracy. Why then was he shaken to
                    the very centre of his being to-night, by the haunting vision of an angelic face
                    and the echo of a sweet faint voice softly breathing the words—"'My belovëd!"'
                    He could dominate others; why could he not dominate himself?
                "'This will never do!"' he said aloud at last, starting up from his brooding
                    attitude—"'I must read—I must work,—I must, at all costs, get out of this absurd
                    frame of mind into which I have unwittingly fallen. Besides, how often have I
                    not assured myself that for all practical earthly considerations Lilith is
                    dead—positively dead!"'
                And to reinstate himself in this idea, he unlocked his desk and took from it a
                    small parchment volume in which he had carefully chronicled the whole account of
                    his experiment on Lilith from the beginning. One  page was written in the form of a journal-the
                    opposite leaf being reserved for "'queries,"' and the book bore the curious
                    superscription "'In Search of the Soul of Lilith"' on its cover. The statement
                    began at once without preamble, thus:—
                
                    "'August 8, 18—. 9 p.m.—Lilith, an Arab girl, aged twelve, dies in
                        my arms. Cause of death, fever and inanition. Heart ceased to beat at ten
                        minutes past eight this evening. While the blood is still warm in the
                        corpse, I inject the 'Electro-flamma' under the veins, close beneath the
                        heart. No immediate effect visible.
                    "'11 p.m.—Arab women lay out Lilith's corpse for burial. Questioned the
                        people as to her origin. An orphan child, of poor parentage, no education,
                        and unquiet disposition. Not instructed in religious matters, but following
                        the religious customs of others by instinct and imitation. Distinctive
                        features of the girl when in health—restlessness, temper, animalism, and
                        dislike of restraint. Troublesome to manage, and not a thinking child by any
                        means.
                    
                    "'August 9. 5 a.m.—The caravan has just started on its way, leaving
                        the corpse of Lilith with me. The woman Zaroba remains behind. Féraz I sent
                        away last night in haste. I tell Zaroba part of my intention; she is
                        superstitious and afraid of me, but willing to serve me. Lilith remains
                        inanimate. I again use the 'Electro-flamma,' this time close to all the
                        chief arteries. No sign of life.
                    "'August 10. Noon.—I begin rather to despair. As a last resource I
                        have injected carefully a few drops of the 'Flamma' close to the brain; it
                        is the mainspring of the whole machine, and if it can be set in motion—
                    "'Midnight. Victory! The brain has commenced to pulsate feebly, and the heart
                        with it. Breathing has begun, but slowly and with difficulty. A faint colour
                        has come into the hitherto waxen face. Success is possible now.
                    "'August 15.—During these last five days Lilith has breathed, and,
                        to a certain extent, lived. She does not open her eyes, nor move a muscle of
                        her body, and at times  still appears
                        dead. She is kept alive (if it is life) by the vital fluid, and
                        by that only. I must give her more time.
                    "'August 20.—I have called her by name, and she has answered—but how
                        strangely! Where does she learn the things she speaks of? She sees the
                        Earth, she tells me, like a round ball circling redly in a cloud of vapours,
                        and she hears music everywhere, and perceives a 'light beyond.' Where
                            and how does she perceive anything?"'
                
                Here on the opposite side of the page was written the following "'query,"' which
                    in this case was headed 
                        "'PROBLEM."'
                        "'Given, a child's brain, not wholly developed in its intellectual
                            capacity, with no impressions save those which are purely material, and
                            place that brain in a state of perpetual trance, how does it come
                                to imagine or comprehend things which science cannot prove?
                            Is it the Soul which conveys these impressions, and if so,
                                what is the Soul, and where is it?"'
                    
                
                El-Râmi read the passage over and over again, then, sighing impatiently, closed
                    the book and put it by.
                "'Since I wrote that, what has she not said—what has she not told me!"' he
                    muttered; "'and the 'child's brain' is a child's brain no longer, but a woman's,
                    while she has obtained absolutely no knowledge of any sort by external means.
                    Yet she—she who was described by those who knew her in her former life as 'not a
                    thinking child, troublesome and difficult to manage,' she it is who describes to
                    me the scenery and civilization of Mars, the inhabitants of Sirius, the wonders
                    of a myriad of worlds; she it is who talks of the ravishing beauty of things
                    Divine and immortal, of the glory of the heavens, of the destined fate of the
                    world. God knows it is very strange!—and the problem I wrote out six years ago
                    is hardly nearer solving than it was then. If I could believe—but
                    then I cannot—I must always doubt, and shall not doubt lead to discovery?"'
                Thus arguing with himself, and scoffing interiorly at the suggestion which just
                    then  came unbidden to his mind—"'Blessed
                        are they which have not seen and yet believed"'—he turned over some
                    more papers and sorted them, with the intention and hope of detaching his
                    thoughts entirely from what had suddenly become the too-enthralling subject of
                    Lilith's beauteous personality. Presently he came upon a memorandum, over which
                    he nodded and smiled with a sort of grim satirical content, entitled, "'The
                    Passions of the Human Animal as Nature made Him;"' it was only a scrap—a hint of
                    some idea which he had intended to make use of in literary work, but he read it
                    over now with a good deal of curious satisfaction. It ran thus:
                "'Man, as a purely natural creature, fairly educated, but wholly unspiritualized,
                    is a mental composition of: Hunger, Curiosity, Self-Esteem, Avarice, Cowardice,
                    Lust, Cruelty, Personal Ambition; and on these vile qualities alone our
                    'society' hangs together; the virtues have no place anywhere, and do not count
                    at all, save as conveniently pious metaphors."'
                "'It is true!"' he said aloud—"'as true as the very light of the skies! Now am I,
                         or have I ever been, guilty of these
                    common vices of ordinary nature? No, no; I have examined my own conscience too
                    often and too carefully. I have been accused of personal ambition, but even that
                    is a false accusation, for I do not seek vulgar rewards, or the noise of
                    notoriety ringing about my name. All that I am seeking to discover is meant for
                    the benefit of the world; that Humanity—poor, wretched, vicious Humanity—may
                    know positively and finally that there is a Future. For till they
                        do know it, beyond all manner of doubt, why should they strive
                    to be better? Why should they seek to quell their animalism? Why should they
                    need to be any better than they are? And why, above all things, should they be
                    exhorted by their preachers and teachers to fasten their faith to a Myth, and
                    anchor their hopes on a Dream?"'
                At that moment a loud and prolonged rat-tat-tatting at the street-door startled
                    him,—he hastily thrust all his loose manuscripts into a drawer, and went to
                    answer the summons, glancing at the clock as he passed it with an air of
                    complete bewilderment,—for it was  close upon
                    two a.m., and he could not imagine how the time had flown. He had scarcely set
                    foot across the hall before another furious knocking began, and he stopped
                    abruptly to listen to the imperative clatter with a curious wondering expression
                    on his dark handsome face. When the noise ceased again, he began slowly to undo
                    the door.
                "'Patience, my dear boy,"' he said, as he flung it open—"'is a virtue, as you
                    must have seen it set forth in copy-books. I provided you with a latch-key—where
                    is it?—there could not be a more timely hour for its usage."'
                But while he spoke, Féraz, for it was he, had sprung in swiftly like some wild
                    animal pursued by hunters, and he now stood in the hall, nearly breathless,
                    staring confusedly at his brother with big, feverishly-bright bewildered
                    eyes.
                "'Then I have escaped!"' he said in a half-whisper—"'I am at home,—really at home
                    again!"'
                El-Râmi looked at him steadily,—then, turning away quietly, carefully shut and
                    bolted the door.
                
                "'Have you spent a happy day, Féraz?"' he gently inquired.
                "'Happy!"' echoed Féraz—"'Happy? Yes. No! Good God!—what do you mean by
                    happiness?"'
                El-Râmi looked at him again, and making no reply to this adjuration, simply
                    turned about and went into his study. Féraz followed.
                "'I know what you think,"' he said in pained accents—"'You think I've been
                    drinking—so I have. But I'm not drunk, for all that. They gave me wine—bad
                    Burgundy—detestable champagne—the sun never shone on the grapes that made
                    it,—and I took very little of it. It is not that which has filled me with a
                    terror too real to deserve your scorn,—it is not that which has driven me home
                    here to you for help and shelter—"'
                "'It is somewhat late to be 'driven' home,"' remarked El-Râmi with a slightly
                    sarcastic smile—"'Two in the morning,—and—bad champagne or good,—you are
                    talking, my dear Féraz, to say the least of it, rather wildly."'
                
                "'For God's sake do not sneer at me!"' cried Féraz passionately—"'I shall go mad
                    if you do! Is it as late as you say?—I never knew it. I fled from them at
                    midnight;—I have wandered about alone under the stars since then."'
                At these words, El-Râmi's expression changed from satire to compassion. His fine
                    eyes softened, and their lustrous light grew deeper and more tender.
                "'Alone—and under the stars?"' he repeated softly—"'Are not the two things
                    incompatible—to you? Have you not made the stars your
                    companions—almost your friends?"'
                "'No, no!"' said Féraz, with a swift gesture of utter hopelessness. "'Not now—not
                    now! for all is changed. I see life as it is—hideous, foul, corruptible, cruel!
                    and the once bright planets look pitiless; the heavens I thought so gloriously
                    designed, are but an impenetrable vault arched over an ever-filling Grave. There
                    is no light, no hope anywhere; how can there be in the face of so much sin?
                    El-Râmi, why did you not tell me? why did you not warn me of the accursëd Evil
                    of this pulsating movement men call Life? For it  seems I have not lived, I have only
                    dreamed!"'
                And with a heavy sigh that seemed wrung from his very heart, he threw himself
                    wearily into a chair, and buried his head between his hands in an attitude of
                    utter dejection.
                El-Râmi looked at him as he sat thus, with a certain shadow of melancholy on his
                    own fine features, then he spoke gently:
                "'Who told you, Féraz, that you have not lived?"' he asked.
                "'Zaroba did, first of all,"' returned Féraz reluctantly; "'and now he, the
                    artist Ainsworth, says the same thing. It seems that to men of the world I look
                    a fool. I know nothing; I am as ignorant as a barbarian—"'
                "'Of what?"' queried his brother. "'Of wine, loose women, the race-course and the
                    gaming-table? Yes, I grant you, you are ignorant of these, and you may thank God
                    for your ignorance. And these wise 'men of the world' who are so superior to
                    you—in what does their wisdom consist?"'
                Féraz sat silent, wrapt in meditation. Presently he looked up; his lashes were
                    wet, and his lips trembled.
                
                "'I wish,"' he murmured, "'I wish I had never gone there,—I wish I had been
                    content to stay with you."'
                El-Râmi laughed a little, but it was to hide a very different emotion.
                "'My dear fellow,"' he said lightly, "'I am not an old woman that I should wish
                    you to be tied to my apron-strings. Come, make a clean breast of it; if not the
                    champagne, what is it that has so seriously disagreed with you?"'
                "'Everything!"' replied Féraz emphatically. "'The whole day has been one of
                    discord—what wonder then that I myself am out of tune! When I first started off
                    from the house this morning, I was full of curious anticipation—I looked upon
                    this invitation to an artist's studio as a sort of break in what I chose to call
                    the even monotony of my existence,—I fancied I should imbibe new ideas, and be
                    able to understand something of the artistic world of London if I spent the day
                    with a man truly distinguished in his profession. When I arrived at the studio,
                    Mr. Ainsworth was already at work—he was painting—a woman."'
                
                "'Well?"' said El-Râmi, seeing that Feraz paused, and stammered hesitatingly.
                "'She was nude,—this woman,"' he went on in a low shamed voice, a hot flush
                    creeping over his delicate boyish face,—"'A creature without any modesty or
                    self-respect. A model, Mr. Ainsworth called her,—and it seems that she took his
                    money for showing herself thus. Her body was beautiful; like a statue flushed
                    with life,—but she was a devil, El-Râmi!—the foulness of her spirit was
                    reflected in her bold eyes—the coarseness of her mind found echo in her
                    voice,—and I—I sickened at the sight of her; I had never believed in the
                    existence of fiends,—but she was one!"'
                El-Râmi was silent, and Féraz resumed—
                "'As I tell you, Ainsworth was painting her, and he asked me to sit beside him
                    and watch his work. His request surprised me,—I said to him in a whisper,
                    'Surely she will resent the presence of a stranger?' He stared at me. 'She? Whom
                    do you mean?' he inquired. 'The woman there,' I answered. He burst out laughing,
                    called me 'an innocent,' and said she was perfectly accustomed  to 'pose' before twenty men at a time, so that I need
                    have no scruples on that score. So I sat down as he bade me, and watched in
                    silence, and thought—"'
                "'Ah, what did you think?"' asked El-Râmi.
                "'I thought evil things,"' answered Féraz deliberately. "'And, while thinking
                    them, I knew they were evil. And I put my own nature under a sort of analysis,
                    and came to the conclusion that, when a man does wrong, he is perfectly aware
                    that it is wrong, and that, therefore, doing wrong deliberately and
                    consciously, he has no right to seek forgiveness, either through Christ or any
                    other intermediary. He should be willing to bear the brunt of it, and his
                    prayers should be for punishment, not for pardon."'
                "'A severe doctrine,"' observed El-Râmi. "'Strangely so, for a young man who has
                    not 'lived,' but only 'dreamed.'"'
                "'In my dreams I see nothing evil,"' said Féraz, "'and I think nothing evil. All
                    is harmonious; all works in sweet accordance with a Divine and Infinite plan, of
                    whose ultimate perfection I am sure. I would rather  dream so, than live as I have lived today."'
                El-Râmi forbore to press him with any questions, and, after a little pause, he
                    went on:
                "'When that woman—the model—went away from the studio, I was as thankful as one
                    might be for the removal of a plague. She dropped a curtain over her bare limbs
                    and disappeared like some vanishing evil spirit. Then Ainsworth asked me to sit
                    to him. I obeyed willingly. He placed me in a half-sitting, half-recumbent
                    attitude, and began to sketch. Suddenly, after about half an hour, it occurred
                    to me that he perhaps wanted to put me in the same picture with that fiend who
                    had gone, and I asked him the question point-blank. 'Why, certainly!' he said.
                    'You will appear as the infatuated lover of that lady, in my great Academy
                    work.' Then, El-Râmi, some suppressed rage in me broke loose. I sprang up and
                    confronted him angrily. 'Never!' I cried. 'You shall never picture me thus! If
                    you dared to do it, I would rip your canvas to shreds on the very walls of the
                    Academy  itself! I am no "'model,"' to sell my
                    personality to you for gold!' He laughed in that lazy, unmirthful way of his.
                    'No,' he said, 'you are certainly not a model, you are a tiger—a young
                    tiger—quite furious and untamed. I wish you would go and rip up my
                    picture on the Academy walls, as you say; it would make my fortune; I should
                    have so many orders for duplicates. My dear fellow, if you won't let me put you
                    into my canvas, you are no use to me. I want your meditative face for the face
                    of a poet destroyed by a passion for Phryne. I really think you might oblige
                    me.' 'Never!' I said; 'the thing would be a libel and a lie. My face is not the
                    face you want. You want a weak face, a round foolish brow, and a receding chin.
                    Why, as God made me, and as I am, every one of my features would falsify your
                    picture's story! The man who voluntarily sacrifices his genius and his hopes of
                    heaven to vulgar vice and passion, must have weakness in him somewhere, and as a
                    true artist you are bound to show that weakness in the features you pourtray.'
                    'And have you no weakness, you young savage?' he asked.  'Not that weakness!' I said. 'The wretched incapacity
                    of will that brings the whole soul down to a grovelling depth of
                    materialism—that is not in me!' I spoke angrily, El-Râmi, perhaps violently; but
                    I could not help myself. He stared at me curiously, and began drawing lines on
                    his palette with his brush dipped in colour. 'You are a very singular young
                    fellow,' he said at last. 'But I must tell you that it was the fair Irene
                    Vassilius who suggested to me that your face would be suitable for that of the
                    poet in my picture. I wanted to please her—' 'You will please her more by
                    telling her what I say,' I interrupted him abruptly. 'Tell her—' 'That you are a
                    new Parsifal,' he said mockingly. 'Ah, she will never believe it! All men in her
                    opinion are either brutes or cowards.' Then he took up a fresh square of canvas,
                    and added: 'Well, I promise you I will not put you in my picture, as you have
                    such a rooted objection to figuring in public as a slave of Phryne, though, I
                    assure you, most young fellows would be proud of such a distinction; for one is
                    hardly considered a "'man"' nowadays unless one professes to be  "'in love"'—God save the mark!—with some female beast
                    of the stage or the music-hall. Such is life, my boy! There! now sit still with
                    that look of supreme scorn on your countenance, and that will do excellently.'
                    'On your word of honour, you will not place me in your picture?' I said. 'On my
                    word of honour,' he replied. So, of course, I could not doubt him. And he drew
                    my features on his canvas quickly, and with much more than ordinary skill; and,
                    when he had finished his sketch, he took me out to lunch with him at a noisy,
                    crowded place, called the 'Criterion.' There were numbers of men and women
                    there, eating and drinking, all of a low type, I thought, and some of them of a
                    most vulgar and insolent bearing, more like dressed-up monkeys than human
                    beings, I told Ainsworth; but he laughed, and said they were very fair specimens
                    of civilized society. Then, after lunch, we went to a Club, where several men
                    were smoking and throwing cards about. They asked me to play, and I told them I
                    knew nothing of the game. Whereupon they explained it; and I said it seemed to
                    me to be quite an imbecile  method of losing
                    money. Then they laughed uproariously. One said I was 'very fresh,' whatever
                    that might mean. Another asked Ainsworth what he had brought me there for, and
                    Ainsworth answered: 'To show you one of the greatest wonders of the century—a
                    really young man in his youth,' and then they laughed again. Later
                    on he took me into the Park. There I saw Madame Vassilius in her carriage. She
                    looked fair and cold, and proud and weary all at once. Her horses came to a
                    standstill under the trees, and Ainsworth went up and spoke to her. She looked
                    at me very earnestly as she gave me her hand, and only said one thing: 'What a
                    pity you are not with your brother!' I longed to ask her why, but she seemed
                    unwilling to converse, and soon gave the signal to her coachman to drive on—in
                    fact, she went at once out of the Park. Then Ainsworth got angry and sullen, and
                    said: 'I hate intellectual women! That pretty scribbler has made so much money
                    that she is perfectly independent of man's help—and, being independent, she is
                    insolent.' I was surprised at his tone. I said I could not see  where he perceived the insolence. 'Can you not?' he
                    asked. 'She studies men instead of loving them; that is where she is insolent
                    and—insufferable!' He was so irritated that I did not pursue the subject, and he
                    then pressed me to stay and dine with him. I accepted—and I am sorry I
                    did."'
                "'Why?"' asked El-Râmi in purposely indifferent tones. "'At present, so far as
                    you have told me, your day seems to have passed in a very harmless manner. A
                    peep at a model, a lunch at the Criterion, a glance at a gaming-club, a stroll
                    in the Park—what could be more ordinary? There is no tragedy in it, such as you
                    seem inclined to imagine; it is all the merest bathos."'
                Féraz looked up indignantly, his eyes sparkling.
                "'Is there nothing tragic in the horrible, stifling, strangling consciousness of
                    evil surrounding one like a plague?"' he demanded passionately. "'To know and to
                    feel that God is far off, instead of near; that one is shut up in a prison of
                    one's own making, where sweet air and pure light cannot penetrate; to be
                    perfectly conscious that one is moving  and
                    speaking with difficulty and agitation in a thick, choking atmosphere of
                    lies—lies—all lies! Is that not tragic? Is that all bathos?"'
                "'My dear fellow, it is life!"' said El-Râmi sedately. "'It is what you wanted to
                    see, to know, and to understand."'
                "'It is not life!"' declared Féraz hotly. "'The people who accept it
                    as such, are fools, and delude themselves. Life, as God gave it to us, is
                    beautiful and noble—grandly suggestive of the Future beyond; but you will not
                    tell me there is anything beautiful or noble or suggestive in the life led by
                    such men and women as I saw to-day. With the exception of Madame Vassilius—and
                    she, I am told, is considered eccentric and a 'visionary'—I have seen no one who
                    would be worth talking to for an hour. At Ainsworth's dinner, for instance,
                    there were some men who called themselves artists, and they talked, not of art,
                    but of money; how much they could get, and how much they would get
                    from certain patrons of theirs whom they called 'full-pursed fools.' Well, and
                    that woman—that model I told you of—actually came to dine at Ainsworth's table,
                    and  other coarse women like her. Surely,
                    El-Râmi, you can imagine what their conversation was like? And as the time went
                    on things became worse. There was no restraint, and at last I could stand it no
                    longer. I rose up from the table, and left the room without a word. Ainsworth
                    followed me; he was flushed with wine, and he looked foolish. 'Where are you
                    going?' he asked. 'Mamie Dillon,' that was the name of his model, 'wants to talk
                    to you.' I made him no answer. 'Where are you going?' he repeated angrily.
                    'Home, of course,' I replied, 'I have stayed here too long as it is. Let me
                    pass.' He was excited; he had taken too much wine, I know, and he scarcely knew
                    what he was saying. 'Oh, I understand you!' he exclaimed. 'You and Irene
                    Vassilius are of a piece—all purity, eh! all disgust at the manners and customs
                    of the "'lower animals."' Well, I tell you we are no worse than anyone else in
                    modern days. My lord the duke's conversation differs very little from that of
                    his groom; and the latest imported American heiress in search of a title,
                    rattles on to the full as volubly and ruthlessly  as Mamie Dillon. Go home, if go you must; and take my
                    advice, if you don't like what you've seen in the world to-day,
                        stay home for good. Stay in your shell, and dream your dreams;
                    I dare say they will profit you quite as much as our realities!' He laughed, and
                    as I left him I said, 'You mistake! it is you who are "'dreaming,"' as you call
                    it; dreaming a bad dream, too; it is I who live.' Then I went out
                    of the house, as I tell you, and wandered alone, under the stars, and thought
                    bitter things."'
                "'Why 'bitter'?"' asked El-Râmi.
                "'I do not know,"' returned Féraz moodily, "'except that all the world seemed
                    wrong. I wondered how God could endure so much degradation on the face of one of
                    his planets, without some grand, Divine protest."'
                "'The protest is always there,"' said El-Râmi quickly. "'Silent, but eternal, in
                    the existence of Good in the midst of Evil."'
                Féraz lifted his eyes and rested their gaze on his brother with an expression of
                    unutterable affection.
                "'El-Râmi, keep me with you!"' he entreated; "'never let me leave you again! I
                         think I must be crazed if the world is
                    what it seems, and my life is so entirely opposed to it; but if so,
                    I would rather be crazed than sane. In my wanderings to-night, on my way home
                    hither, I met young girls and women who must have been devils in disguise, so
                    utterly were they lost to every sense of womanhood and decency. I saw men,
                    evil-looking and wretched, who seemed waiting but the chance to murder, or
                    commit any other barbarous crime for gold. I saw little children, starving and
                    in rags; old and feeble creatures, too, in the last stage of destitution,
                    without a passer-by to wish them well; all things seemed foul and dark and
                    hopeless, and when I entered here, I felt—ah, God knows what I felt!—that you
                    were my Providence, that this was my home, and that surely some Angel dwelt
                    within and hallowed it with safety and pure blessing!"'
                A sudden remorse softened his voice, his beautiful eyes were dim with tears.
                "'He remembers and thinks of Lilith!"' thought El-Râmi quickly, with a singular
                    jealous tightening emotion at his heart; but aloud he said gently:
                
                "'If one day in the 'world' has taught you to love this simple abode of ours, my
                    dear Féraz, more than you did before, you have had a most valuable lesson. But
                    do not be too sure of yourself. Remember, you resented my authority, and you
                    wished to escape from my influence. Well, now—"'
                "'Now I voluntarily place myself under both,"' said Féraz, rising and standing
                    before him with bent head. "'El-Râmi, my brother and my friend, do with me as
                    you will! If from you come my dreams, in God's name let me dream! If from your
                    potent will, exerted on my spirit, springs the fountain of the music which
                    haunts my life, let me ever be a servant of that will! With you I have had
                    happiness, health, peace, and mysterious joy, such as the world could never
                    comprehend; away from you, though only for a day, I have been miserable. Take my
                    complete obedience, El-Râmi, for what it is worth; you give me more than my
                    life's submission can ever repay."'
                El-Râmi stepped up more closely to him, and laying both hands on his shoulders,
                    looked him seriously in the eyes.
                
                "'My dear boy, consider for a moment how you involve yourself,"' he said
                    earnestly, yet with great kindliness. "'Remember the old Arabic volume you
                    chanced upon, and what it said concerning the mystic powers of 'influence.' Did
                    you quite realize it, and all that it implies?"'
                Féraz met his searching gaze steadily.
                "'Quite,"' he replied. "'So much and so plainly do I realize it, that I can
                    attribute everything done in the world to 'influence.' Each one of us is
                    'influenced' by something or someone. Even you, my dearest brother share the
                    common lot, though I dare say you do not quite perceive where your ruling force
                    is generated, your own powers being so extraordinary. Ainsworth, for example, is
                    'influenced' in very opposite directions by very opposite forces—Irene
                    Vassilius, and—his Mamie Dillon! Now I would rather have your spell
                    laid upon my life than that of the speculator, the gambler, the drinker, or the
                    vile woman, for none of these can possibly give satisfaction, at least not to
                    me; while your wizard wand invokes nothing but beauty, harmony, and peace of
                    conscience.  So I repeat it, El-Râmi, I submit
                    to you utterly and finally—must I entreat you to accept my submission?"'
                He smiled, and the old happy look that he was wont to wear began to radiate over
                    his face, which had till then seemed worn and wearied. El-Râmi's dark features
                    appeared to reflect the smile, as he gently touched his brother's clustering
                    curls, and said playfully:
                "'In spite of Zaroba?"'
                "'In spite of Zaroba,"' echoed Féraz mirthfully. "'Poor Zaroba! she does not seem
                    well, or happy. I fear she has offended you?"'
                "'No, no,"' said El-Râmi meditatively, "'she has not offended me; she is too old
                    to offend me. I cannot be angry with sorrowful and helpless age. And if she is
                    not well, we will make her well, and if she is not happy, we will make her
                    happy, ... and be happy ourselves—shall it not be so?"' His voice was very soft,
                    and he seemed to talk at random, and to be conscious of it, for he roused
                    himself with a slight start, and said in firmer tones: "'Good-night, Féraz;
                    good-night, dear lad. Rest, and dream!"'
                
                He smiled as Féraz impulsively caught his hand and kissed it, and after the young
                    man had left the room he still stood, lost in a reverie, murmuring under his
                    breath: "'And be happy ourselves! Is that possible—could that be possible—in
                        this world?"'
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                NEXT day towards noon, while Féraz, tired with his
                    brief "'worldly"' experiences, was still sleeping, El-Râmi sought out Zaroba.
                    She received him in the ante-room of the chamber of Lilith with more than her
                    customary humility; her face was dark and weary, and her whole aspect one of
                    resigned and settled melancholy. El-Râmi looked at her kindly, and with
                    compassion.
                "'The sustaining of wrath is an injury to the spirit,"' he wrote on the slate
                    which served for that purpose in his usual way of communication with her; "'I no
                    longer mistrust you. Once more I say, be faithful and obedient. I ask no more.
                    The spell of silence shall be lifted from your lips to-day."'
                She read swiftly, and with apparent 
                        incre-
                        incredulity
                    
                     dulity, and a tremor passed over her tall,
                    gaunt frame. She looked at him wonderingly and wistfully, while he, standing
                    before her, returned the look steadfastly, and seemed to be concentrating all
                    his thoughts upon her with some fixed intention. After a minute or two he turned
                    aside, and again wrote on the slate; this time the words ran thus:
                "'Speak; you are at liberty."'
                With a deep shuddering sigh, she extended her hands appealingly.
                "'Master!"' she exclaimed; and before he could prevent her, she had dropped on
                    her knees. "'Forgive—forgive!"' she muttered. "'Terrible is thy power, O
                    El-Râmi, ruler of spirits! terrible, mystic and wonderful! God must have given
                    thee thy force, and I am but the meanest of slaves to rebel against thy command.
                    Yet out of wisdom comes not happiness, but great grief and pain; and as I live,
                    El-Râmi, in my rebellion I but dreamed of a love that should bring thee joy!
                    Pardon the excess of my zeal, for lo, again and yet again I swear fidelity! and
                    may all the curses of heaven fall on me if this time I break my vow!"'
                
                She bent her head—she would have kissed the floor at his feet, but that he
                    quickly raised her up and prevented her.
                "'There is nothing more to pardon,"' he wrote. "'Your wisdom is possibly greater
                    than mine. I know there is nothing stronger than Love, nothing better perhaps;
                    but Love is my foe whom I must vanquish,—lest he should vanquish me!"'
                And while Zaroba yet pored over these words, her black eyes dilating with
                    amazement at the half confession of weakness implied in them he turned away and
                    left the room.
                That afternoon a pleasant sense of peace and restfulness seemed to settle upon
                    the little household; delicious strains of melody filled the air; Féraz,
                    refreshed in mind and body by a sound sleep, was seated at the piano,
                    improvising strange melodies in his own exquisitely wild and tender fashion;
                    while El-Râmi, seated at his writing-table, indited a long letter to Dr. Kremlin
                    at Ilfracombe, giving in full the message left for him by the mysterious monk
                    from Cyprus respecting the "'Third Ray"' or signal from Mars.
                
                "'Do not weary yourself too much with watching this phenomenon,"' he wrote to his
                    friend. "'From all accounts, it will be a difficult matter to track so rapid a
                    flash on the Disc as the one indicated, and I have fears for your safety. I
                    cannot give any satisfactory cause for my premonition of danger to you in the
                    attempt, because if we do not admit an end to anything, then there can be no
                    danger even in death itself, which we are accustomed to look upon as an 'end,'
                    when it may be proved to be only a beginning. But, putting aside
                    the idea of 'danger' or 'death,' the premonition remains in my mind as one of
                    'change' for you; and perhaps you are not ready or willing even to accept a
                    different sphere of action to your present one, therefore I would say, take heed
                    to yourself when you follow the track of the 'Third Ray.'"'
                Here his pen stopped abruptly; Féraz was singing in a soft mezza-voce, and he
                    listened: 
                        
                            O Sweet, if love obtained must slay desire,
                            And quench the light and heat of passion's fire;
                            If you are weary of the ways of love,
                            And fain would end the many cares thereof,
                            
                            I prithee tell me so that I may seek
                            Some place to die in ere I grow too weak
                            To look my last on your belovìd face.
                            Yea, tell me all! The gods may yet have grace
                            And pity enough to let me quickly die
                            Some brief while after we have said 'Good-bye!'
                        
                        
                            Nay, I have known it well for many days
                            You have grown tired of all tender ways;
                            Love's kisses weary you, love's eager words,
                            Old as the hills and sweet as singing-birds,
                            Are fetters hard to bear! O love, be free!
                            You will lose little joy in losing me;
                            Let me depart, remembering only this,
                            That once you loved me, and that once your kiss
                            Crown'd me with joy supreme enough to last
                            Through all my life till that brief life be past.
                        
                        
                            Forget me, Sweetest-heart, and nevermore
                            Turn to look back on what has gone before,
                            Or say, 'Such love was brief, but wondrous fair;'
                            The past is past forever; have no care
                            Or thought for me at all, no tear or sigh,
                            Or faint regret; for, Dearest, I shall die
                            And dream of you i' the dark, beneath the grass;
                            And o'er my head perchance your feet may pass,
                            Lulling me faster into sleep profound
                            Among the fairies of the fruitful ground.
                            Love wearied out by love, hath need of rest.
                            And when all love is ended, Death is best.
                        
                    
                The song ceased; but though the singer's voice no longer charmed the silence, his
                    fingers still wandered over the keys of the piano, devising intricate passages
                    of melody as delicate and devious as the warbling  of nightingales. El-Râmi, unconsciously to himself,
                    heaved a deep sigh, and Féraz, hearing it, looked round.
                "'Am I disturbing you?"' he asked.
                "'No. I love to hear you; but, like many youthful poets, you sing of what you
                    scarcely understand—love, for instance; you know nothing of love."'
                "'I imagine I do,"' replied Féraz meditatively. "'I can picture my ideal woman;
                    she is—"'
                "'Fair, of course!"' said El-Râmi, with an indulgent smile.
                "'Yes, fair; her hair must be golden, but not uniformly so—full of lights and
                    shadows, suggestive of some halo woven round her brows by the sunlight, or the
                    caressing touch of an angel. She must have deep, sweet eyes in which no actual
                    colour is predominant; for a pronounced blue or black does away with warmth of
                    expression. She must not be tall, for one cannot caress tall women without a
                    sense of the ludicrous spoiling sentiment—"'
                "'Have you tried it?"' asked El-Râmi, laughing.
                
                Féraz laughed too.
                "'You know I have not; I only imagine the situation. To explain more fully what I
                    mean, I would say one could more readily draw into one's arms the Venus of
                    Medicis than that of Milo—one could venture to caress a Psyche, but scarcely a
                    Juno. I have never liked the idea of tall women, they are like big handsome
                    birds—useful, no doubt, but not half so sweet as the little fluttering singing
                    ones."'
                "'Well, and what other attributes must this imagined lady of yours possess?"'
                    asked El-Râmi, vaguely amused at his brother's earnestness.
                "'Oh, many more charms than I could enumerate,"' replied Féraz. "'And of one
                    thing I am certain, she is not to be found on this earth. But I am quite
                    satisfied to wait; I shall find her, even as she will find me some day.
                    Meanwhile I 'imagine' love, and in imagination I almost feel it."'
                He went on playing, and El-Râmi resumed the writing of his letter to Kremlin,
                    which he soon finished and addressed ready for post. A gentle knock at the
                    street-door made itself  heard just then
                    through the ebb and flow of Féraz's music, and Feraz left off his improvisation
                    abruptly and went to answer the summons. He returned, and announced with some
                    little excitement:
                "'Madame Irene Vassilius."'
                El-Râmi rose and advanced to meet his fair visitor, bowing courteously.
                "'This is an unexpected pleasure, Madame,"' he said, the sincerity of his welcome
                    showing itself in the expression of his face, "'and an unmerited honour for
                    which I am grateful."'
                She smiled, allowing her hand to rest in his for a moment; then, accepting the
                    low chair which Féraz placed for her near his brother's writing-table, she
                    seated herself, and lifted her eyes to El-Râmi's countenance—eyes which, like
                    those of Féraz's ideal ladye-love, were "'deep and sweet, and of no pronounced
                    colour."'
                "'I felt you would not resent my coming here as an intrusion,"' she began; "'but
                    my visit is not one of curiosity. I do not want to probe you as to your
                    knowledge of my past, or to ask you anything as to my future. I am a lonely
                    creature, disliked by many  people, and in the
                    literary career I have adopted I fight a desperately hard battle, and often
                    crave for a little—just a little sympathetic comprehension. One or two questions
                    puzzle me which you might answer if you would. They are on almost general
                    subjects; but I should like to have your opinion."'
                "'Madame, if you, with your exceptional gifts of insight and instinct, are
                    baffled in these 'general' questions,"' said El-Râmi, "'shall not I be baffled
                    also?"'
                "'That does not follow,"' replied Irene, returning his glance steadily, "'for you
                    men always claim to be wiser than women. I do not agree with this fiat, so
                    absolutely set forth by the lords of creation; yet I am not what is termed
                    'strong-minded,' I simply seek justice. Pray stay with us,"' she added, turning
                    to Féraz, who was about to retire, as he usually did whenever El-Râmi held an
                    interview with any visitor; "'there is no occasion for you to go away."'
                Féraz hesitated, glancing at his brother.
                "'Yes, by all means remain here, Féraz,"' said El-Râmi gently, "'since Madame
                    Vassilius desires it."'
                
                Delighted with the permission, Féraz ensconced himself in a corner with a book,
                    pretending to read, but in reality listening to every word of the conversation.
                    He liked to hear Irene's voice—it was singularly sweet and ringing, and at times
                    had a peculiar thrill of pathos in it that went straight to the heart.
                "'You know,"' she went on, "'that I am, or am supposed to be, what the world
                    calls 'famous.' That is, I write books which the public clamour for and read,
                    and for which I receive large sums of money. I am able to live well, dress well,
                    and look well, and I am known as one of society's 'celebrities.' Well, now, can
                    you tell me why, for such poor honours as these, men, supposed to be our wiser
                    and stronger superiors, are so spitefully jealous of a woman's fame?"'
                "'Jealous?"' echoed El-Râmi dubiously, and with something of hesitation. "'You
                    mean—"'
                "'I mean what I say,"' continued Madame Vassilius calmly; "'neither more nor
                    less. Spitefully jealous is the term I used. Explain to me this riddle: Why do
                    men 
                        en-
                        encourage
                    
                     courage women to every sort of base folly and
                    vanity that may lead them at length to become the slaves of man's lust and
                    cruelty, and yet take every possible means to oppose and hinder them in their
                    attempts to escape from sensuality and animalism into intellectual progress and
                    pre-eminence? In looking back on the history of all famous women, from Sappho
                    downwards to the present time, it is amazing to consider what men have said of
                    them. Always a sneer at 'women's work.' And if praise is at any time given, how
                    grudging and half-hearted it is! Men will enter no protest against women who
                    uncover their bare limbs to the public gaze and dance lewdly in music-halls and
                    theatres for the masculine delectation; they will defend the street-prostitute;
                    they will pledge themselves and their family estates in order to provide jewels
                    for the newest 'ballerina'; but for the woman of intellect they have nothing but
                    a shrug of contempt. If she produces a great work of art in literature, it is
                    never thoroughly acknowledged; and the hard blows delivered on Charlotte Bronté,
                    George Eliot, Georges Sand, and others of their calibre, far 
                        out-
                        outweighed
                    
                     weighed their laurels. George Eliot and
                    Georges Sand took men's names in order to shelter themselves a little from the
                    pitiless storm that assails literary work known to emanate from a woman's brain;
                    but let a man write the veriest trash that ever was printed, he will still be
                    accredited by his own sex with something better than ever the cleverest woman
                    could compass. How is it that the 'superior' sex are cowardly enough to throw
                    stones at those among the 'inferior,' who surpass their so-called lords and
                    masters both in chastity and intellect?"'
                She spoke earnestly, her eyes shining with emotion; she looked lovely, thus
                    inspired by the strength of her inward feelings. El-Râmi was taken aback. Like
                    most Orientals, he had to a certain extent despised women and their work. But,
                    then, what of Lilith? Without her aid would his discoveries in spiritual science
                    have progressed so far? Had he or any man a right to call woman the "'inferior"'
                    sex?
                "'Madame,"' he said slowly and with a vague embarrassment, "'you bring an
                    accusation against our sex which it is impossible to  refute, because it is simply and undeniably true. Men
                    do not love either chastity or intellect in women."'
                He paused, looking at her, then went on:
                "'A chaste woman is an embodied defiance and reproach to man; an intellectual
                    woman is always a source of irritation, because she is invariably his superior.
                    By this I mean that when a woman is thoroughly gifted, she is gifted all round;
                    an intellectual man is generally only gifted in one direction. For example, a
                    great poet, painter, or musician, may be admirable in his own line, but he
                    generally lacks in something; he is stupid, perhaps, in conversation, or he
                    blunders in some way by want of tact; but a truly brilliant woman has all the
                    charms of mental superiority, generally combined with delicate touches of
                    satire, humour, and wit,—points which she uses to perfection against the
                    lumbering animal Man, with the result that she succeeds in pricking him in all
                    his most vulnerable parts. He detests her accordingly, and flies for consolation
                    to the empty-headed dolls of the music-hall, who flatter him to the top of his
                    bent, in order to get as much  champagne and
                    as many diamonds as they can out of him. Man must be adored; he insists upon it,
                    even if he pays for it."'
                "'It is a pity he does not make himself a little more worthy of adoration,"' said
                    Irene, with a slight scornful smile.
                "'It is,"' agreed El-Râmi; "'but most men, even the ugliest and stupidest,
                    consider themselves perfect."'
                "'Do you?"' she asked suddenly.
                "'Do I consider myself perfect?"' El-Râmi smiled, and reflected on this point.
                    "'Madame, if I am frank with you, and with myself, I must answer 'Yes!' I am
                    made of the same clay as all my sex, and consider myself worthy to be the
                    conqueror of any woman under the sun! Ask any loathsome, crook-backed dwarf that
                    sweeps a crossing for his livelihood, and his idea of his own personal charm
                    will be the same."'
                Féraz laughed outright; Madame Vassilius looked amused and interested.
                "'You can never eradicate from the masculine nature,"' proceeded El-Râmi, "'the
                    idea that our attentions, no matter how uncouth, are, and always must be,
                    agreeable to the  feminine temperament. Here
                    you have the whole secret of the battle carried on by men, against women who
                    have won the prize of a world-wide fame. An intellectual woman sets a barrier
                    between herself and the beasts; the beasts howl, but cannot leap it; hence their
                    rage. You, Madame, are not only intellectual, but lovely to look at; you stand
                    apart, a crowned queen, seeking no assistance from men; by your very manner you
                    imply your scorn of their low and base desires. They must detest
                    you in self-defence; most of your adverse critics are the poorly paid hacks of
                    the daily journals, who envy you your house, your horses, your good fortune, and
                    your popularity with the public; if you want them to admire you, go in for a big
                    scandal. Run away with some blackguard; have several husbands; do something to
                    tarnish your woman's reputation; be a vulture or a worm, not a star; men do not
                    care for stars, they are too distant, too cold, too pure!"'
                "'Are you speaking satirically,"' asked Madame Vassilius, "'or in grim
                    earnest?"'
                "'In grim earnest, fair lady,"' and El-Râmi rose from his chair and confronted
                    her with  a half-smile. "'In grim earnest, men
                    are brutes! The statement is one which is frequently made by what is called the
                    'Shrieking Sisterhood'; but I, a man, agree to it in cold blood, without
                    conditions. We are stupid brutes; we work well in gangs, but not so well singly.
                    As soldiers, sailors, builders, engineers, labourers, all on the gang method, we
                    are admirable. The finest paintings of the world were produced by bodies of men
                    working under one head, called 'schools,' but differing from our modern
                    'schools' in this grand exception, that whereas now each pupil
                    tries his hand at something of his own, then all the pupils worked
                    at the one design of the Master. Thus were painted the frescoes of Michael
                    Angelo, and the chief works of Raphael. Now the rule is 'every man for himself
                    and the devil take the hindmost,' And very poorly does 'each man for himself'
                    succeed. Men must always be helped along, either by each other—or ... by ... a
                    woman! Many of them owe all their success in life to the delicate management and
                    patient tact of woman, and yet never have the grace to own it. Herein we are
                    thankless brutes as well  as stupid. But, as
                    far as I personally am concerned, I am willing to admit that all my best
                    discoveries, such as they are, are due to the far-reaching intelligence and pure
                    insight of a woman."'
                This remark utterly amazed Féraz; Madame Vassilius looked surprised and
                    interested.
                "'Then,"' she said, smiling slightly, "'of course you love someone?"'
                A shadow swept over El-Râmi's features.
                "'No, Madame; I am not capable of love, as this world understands loving. Love
                    has existence no doubt, but surely not as Humanity accepts it. For example, a
                    man loves a woman; she dies; he gradually forgets her, and loves another, and so
                    on. That is not love, but it is what society is satisfied with, as such. You are
                    quite right to despise such a fleeting emotion for yourself; it is not
                    sufficient for the demands of your nature; you seek something more
                    lasting."'
                "'Which I shall never find,"' said Irene quietly.
                "'Which you will find, and which you must find,"' declared El-Râmi. "'All
                    longings,  however vague, whether evil or
                    good, are bound to be fulfilled, there being no waste in the economy of the
                    universe. This is why it is so necessary to weigh well the results of desire
                    before encouraging it. I quite understand your present humour, Madame—it is one
                    of restlessness and discontent. You find your crown of fame has thorns; never
                    mind! wear it royally, though the blood flows from the torn brows. You are
                    solitary at times, and find the solitude irksome; Art serves her children
                    thus—she will accept no half-love, but takes all. Were I asked to name one of
                    the most fortunate of women, I think I should name you, for notwithstanding the
                    progress of your intellectual capacity, you have kept your faith."'
                "'I have kept my religion, if you mean that,"' said Irene, impressed by his
                    earnestness; "'but it is not the religion of the churches."'
                He gave an impatient gesture.
                "'The religion of the churches is a mere Show-Sunday,"' he returned. "'We all
                    know that. When I say you have kept your faith, I mean that you can believe in
                    God without  positive proofs of Him. That is a
                    grand capability in this age. I wish I had it!"'
                Irene Vassilius looked at him wonderingly.
                "'Surely you believe in God?"'
                "'Not till I can prove Him!"' and El-Râmi's eyes flashed defiantly.
                    "'Vice triumphant, and Virtue vanquished, do not explain Him to me. Torture and
                    death do not manifest to my spirit His much-talked-of 'love and goodness.' I
                    must unriddle His secret; I must pierce into the heart of His plan, before I
                    join the enforced laudations of the multitude; I must know and feel that it is
                    the Truth I am proclaiming, before I stand up in the sight of my fellows and
                    say, 'O God, Thou art the Fountain of Goodness, and all Thy works are wise and
                    wonderful!'"'
                He spoke with remarkable power and emphasis; his attitude was full of dignity.
                    Madame Vassilius gazed at him in involuntary admiration.
                "'It is a bold spirit that undertakes to catechize the Creator and examine into
                    the value of His creation,"' she said.
                "'If there is a Creator,"' said El-Râmi, "'and if from Him all things do come,
                    then  from Him also comes my spirit of
                    inquiry. I have no belief in a devil, but if there were one, the Creator is
                    answerable for him, too. And to revert again to your questions, Madame, shall we
                    not in a way make God somewhat responsible for the universal prostitution of
                    woman? It is a world-wide crime, and only very slight attempts as yet have been
                    made to remedy it, because the making of the laws is in the hands of men—the
                    criminals. The Englishman, the European generally, is as great a destroyer of
                    woman's life and happiness as any Turk or other barbarian. The life of the
                    average woman is purely animal; in her girlhood she is made to look attractive,
                    and her days pass in the consideration of dress, appearance, manner, and
                    conversation; when she has secured her mate, her next business is to bear him
                    children. The children reared, and sent out into the world, she settles down
                    into old age, wrinkled, fat, toothless, and frequently quarrelsome; the whole of
                    her existence is not a grade higher than that of a leopardess or other forest
                    creature, and sometimes not so exciting. When a woman rises  above all this, she is voted by the men 'unwomanly';
                    she is no longer the slave or the toy of their passions; and that is why, my
                    dear Madame, they give the music-hall dancer their diamonds, and heap upon
                        you their sneers."'
                Irene sat silent for some minutes, and a sigh escaped her.
                "'Then it is no use trying to be a little different to the rest,"' she said
                    wearily; "'a little higher, a little less prone to vulgarity? If one must be
                    hated for striving to be worthy of one's vocation—"'
                "'My dear lady, you do not see that man will never admit that literature
                        is your vocation! No, not even if you wrote as grand a tragedy
                    as 'Macbeth.' Your vocation, according to them, is to adore their sex, to look
                    fascinating, to wear pretty clothes, and purr softly like a pleased cat when
                    they make you a compliment; not to write books that set everybody talking. They
                    would rather see you dragged and worn to death under the burden of half a dozen
                    children, than they would see you stepping disdainfully past them, in all the
                    glory of fame. Yet be 
                        con-
                        content
                    
                     tent,—you have, like Mary in the Gospel,
                    'chosen the better part'; of that I feel sure, though I am unable to tell you
                    why or how I feel it."'
                "'If you feel sure of certain things without being able to explain how or why you
                    feel them,"' put in Féraz suddenly, "'is it not equally easy to feel sure of God
                    without being able to explain how or why He exists?"'
                "'Admirably suggested, my dear Féraz,"' observed El-Râmi, with a slight smile.
                    "'But please recollect that though it may be easy to you and a fair romancist
                    like Madame Vassilius to feel sure of God, it is not at all easy to me. I am not
                    sure of Him; I have not seen Him, and I am not conscious of Him. Moreover, if an
                    average majority of people taken at random could be persuaded to speak the truth
                    for once in their lives, they would all say the same thing—that they are not
                    conscious of Him. Because if they were—if the world were—the emotion of Fear
                    would be altogether annihilated; there would never be any 'panic' about
                    anything; people would not shriek and wail at the  terrors of an earthquake, or be seized with pallor
                    and trembling at the crash and horror of an unexpected storm. Being sure of God
                    would mean being sure of Good; and I'm afraid none of us are convinced in that
                    direction. But I think and believe that if we indeed felt sure of God, Evil
                    would be annihilated as well as fear. And the mystery is, why does He not
                        make us sure of Him? It must be in His power to do so, and
                    would save both Him and us an infinite deal of trouble."'
                Féraz grew restless and left his place, laying down the volume he had been
                    pretending to read.
                "'I wish you would not be so horribly, cruelly definite in your
                    suggestions,"' he said rather vexedly. "'What is the good of it? It unsettles
                    one's mind."'
                "'Surely your mind is not unsettled by a merely reasonable idea reasonably
                    suggested?"' returned El-Râmi calmly. "'Madame Vassilius here is not
                    'unsettled,' as you call it."'
                "'No,"' said Irene slowly; "'but I had thought you more of a spiritual
                    believer—"'
                
                "'Madame,"' said El-Râmi impressively, "'I am a spiritual believer, but in this
                    way: I believe that this world and all worlds are composed of Spirit and Matter,
                    and not only do I believe it, but I know it! The atmosphere around
                    us and all planets is composed of Spirit and Matter; and every living creature
                    that breathes is made of the same dual mixture. Of the Spirit that forms part of
                    Matter and dominates it, I, even I have some control; and others
                    who come after me, treading in the same lines of thought, will have more than I.
                    I can influence the spirit of man; I can influence the spirit of the air; I can
                    draw an essence from the earth upwards that shall seem to you like the wraith of
                    someone dead; but if you ask me whether these provable, practicable scientific
                    tests or experiments on the spirit that is part of Nature's very existence, are
                    manifestations of God or the Divine, I say—No. God would not permit Man to play
                    at will with His eternal Fires; whereas, with the spirit essence that can be
                    chemically drawn from earth and fire and water, I, a mere studious and
                    considering biped, can do whatsoever I 
                    choose. I know how the legends of phantoms and fairies arose in the world's
                    history, because at one time, one particular period of the pre-historic ages,
                    the peculiar, yet natural combination of the elements and the atmosphere,
                        formed 'fantasma' which men saw and believed in. The last trace
                    of these now existing is the familiar 'mirage' of cities with their domes and
                    steeples seen during certain states of the atmosphere in mid-ocean. Only give me
                    the conditions, and I will summon up a ghostly city too. I can form numberless
                    phantasmal figures now, and more than this, I can evoke for your ears from the
                    very bosom of the air, music such as long ago sounded for the pleasure of men
                    and women dead. For the air is a better phonograph than Edison's, and has the
                    advantage of being eternal."'
                "'But such powers are marvellous!"' exclaimed Irene. "'I cannot understand how
                    you have attained to them."'
                "'Neither can others less gifted understand how you, Madame, have attained your
                    literary skill,"' said El-Râmi. "'All art, all science, all discovery, is the
                    result of a  concentrated Will, an indomitable
                    Perseverance. My 'powers,' as you term them, are really very slight, and, as I
                    said before, those who follow my track will obtain far greater supremacy. The
                    secret of phantasmal splendour or 'vision,' as also the clue to what is called
                    'unearthly music'—anything and everything that is or appears to be of a
                    supernatural character in this world—can be traced to natural causes, and the
                    one key to it all is the great Fact that Nothing in the Universe is lost. Bear
                    that statement well in mind. Light preserves all scenes; Air preserves all
                    sounds. Therefore, it follows that if the scenes are there, and the sounds are
                    there, they can be evoked again, and yet again, by him who has the skill to
                    understand the fluctuations of the atmospheric waves, and the incessantly
                    recurring vibrations of light. Do not imagine that even a Thought, which you
                    very naturally consider your own, actually remains a fixture in your brain from
                    whence it was germinated. It escapes while you are in the very act of thinking
                    it; its subtle essence evaporates into the air you breathe and the  light you absorb. If it presents itself to you again,
                    it will probably be in quite a different form, and perhaps you will hardly
                    recognise it. All Thought escapes thus; you cannot keep it to yourself any more
                    than you can have breath without breathing."'
                "'You mean that a Thought belongs to all, and not to one individual?"' said
                    Irene.
                "'Yes, I mean that,"' replied El-Râmi; "'and Thought, I may say, is the only
                    reflex I can admit of possible Deity, because Thought is free, absolute,
                    all-embracing, creative, perpetual, and unwearied. Limitless too—great Heaven,
                    how limitless! To what heights does it not soar? In what depths does it not
                    burrow? How daring, how calm, how indifferent to the ocean-swell of approaching
                    and receding ages! Your modern Theosophist, calmly counting his gains from the
                    blind incredulity and stupidity of the unthinking masses, is only copying, in a
                    very Lilliputian manner, the grand sagacity and cunning of the ancient Egyptian
                    'magi,' who, by scientific trickery, ruled the ignorant multitude; it is the
                    same Thought, only dressed in modern aspect. Thought,  and the proper condensation, controlling and usage of
                    Thought, is Power,—Divinity, if you will. And it is the only existing Force that
                    can make gods of men."'
                Irene Vassilius sat silent, fascinated by his words, and still more fascinated by
                    his manner. After a few minutes she spoke—
                "'I am glad you admit,"' she said gently, "'that this all-potent Thought may be a
                    reflex of the Divine,—for we can have no reflections of light without the Light
                    itself. I came to you in a somewhat discontented humour,—I am happier now. I
                    suppose I ought to be satisfied with my lot,—I am certainly more fortunately
                    situated than most women."'
                "'You are, Madame"'—said El-Râmi, smiling pensively and fixing his dark eyes upon
                    her with a kind expression,—"'And your native good sense and wit will prevent
                    you, I hope, from marring the good which the gods have provided for you. Do not
                    marry yet,—it would be too great a disillusion for you. The smallest touch of
                    prose is sufficient to destroy the delicacy of love's finer sentiments; and
                    marriage, as the married  will tell you, is
                    all prose,—very prosy prose too. Avoid it!—prosy prose is tiresome
                    reading."'
                She laughed, and rose to take her leave.
                "'I saw your brother with Mr. Ainsworth yesterday,"' she observed—"'And I could
                    not understand how two such opposite natures could possibly agree."'
                "'Oh, we did not agree,—we have not agreed,"' said Féraz hastily, speaking for
                    himself—"'It is not likely we shall see much of each other."'
                "'I am glad to hear it"'—and she extended her hand to him—"'You are very young,
                    and Roy Ainsworth is very old, not in years, but in heart. It would be a pity
                    for you to catch the contagion of our modern pessimism."'
                "'But—"' Féraz hesitated and stammered, "'it was you, was it not, Madame, who
                    suggested to Mr. Ainsworth that he should take me as the model for one of the
                    figures in his picture?"'
                "'Yes, it was I,"' replied Irene with a slight smile—"'But I never thought you
                    would consent,—and I felt sure, that even if you did, he would never succeed in 
                        render-
                        rendering
                    
                     ing your expression, for he is a mere
                    surface-painter of flesh, not Soul—still, all the same, it amused me to make the
                    suggestion."'
                "'Yes,—woman-like,"' said El-Râmi—"'You took pleasure in offering him a task he
                    could not fulfil. There you have another reason why intellectual women are
                    frequently detested—they ask so much and give so little."'
                "'You wrong us,"' answered Irene swiftly. "'When we love, we give all!"'
                "'And so you give too much!"' said El-Râmi gravely—"'It is the common fault of
                    women. You should never give 'all'—you should always hold back something. To be
                    fascinating, you should be enigmatical. When once man is allowed to understand
                    your riddle thoroughly, the spell is broken. The placid, changeless,
                    monotonously amiable woman has no power whatever over the masculine temperament.
                    It is Cleopatra that makes a slave of Antony, not blameless and simple
                    Octavia."'
                Irene Vassilius smiled.
                "'According to such a theory, the Angels must be very tame and uninteresting
                    individuals,"' she said.
                
                El-Râmi's eyes grew lustrous with the intensity of his thought.
                "'Ah, Madame, our conception of Angels is a very poor and false one, founded on
                    the flabby imaginations of ignorant priests. An Angel, according to my idea,
                    should be wild and bright and restless as lightning, speeding from star to star
                    in search of new lives and new loves, with lips full of music and eyes full of
                    fire, with every fibre of its immortal being palpitating with pure yet
                    passionate desires for everything that can perfect and equalize its existence.
                    The pallid, goose-winged object represented to us as inhabiting a country of
                    No-Where without landscape or colour, playing on an unsatisfactory harp and
                    singing 'Holy, holy' forever and ever, is no Angel, but rather a libel on the
                    whole systematic creative plan of the Universe. Beauty, brilliancy, activity,
                    glory and infinite variety of thought and disposition—if these be not in the
                    composition of an Angel, then the Creator is but poorly served!"'
                "'You speak as if you had seen one of these immortals?"' said Irene,
                    surprised.
                A shadow darkened his features.
                
                "'Not I, Madame—except once—in a dream! You are going?—then farewell! Be
                    happy,—and encourage the angelic qualities in yourself—for if there be a
                    Paradise anywhere, you are on the path that leads to it."'
                "'You think so?"' and she sighed—"'I hope you may be right,—but sometimes I fear,
                    and sometimes I doubt. Thank you for all you have said,—it is the first time I
                    have met with so much gentleness, courtesy and patience from one of your sex.
                    Good-bye!"'
                She passed out, Féraz escorting her to her carriage, which waited at the door;
                    then he returned to his brother with a slow step and meditative air.
                "'Do men really wrong women so much as she seems to think?"' he asked.
                El-Râmi paused a moment,—then answered slowly:
                "'Yes, Féraz, they do; and as long as this world wags, they will! Let God look to
                    it!—for the law of feminine oppression is His—not ours!"'
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X.
                THAT same week was chronicled one of the worst gales
                    that had ever been known to rage on the English coast. From all parts of the
                    country came accounts of the havoc wrought on the budding fruit-trees by the
                    pitiless wind and rain,—harrowing stories of floods and shipwrecks came with
                    every fresh despatch of news,—great Atlantic steamers were reported "'missing,"'
                    and many a fishing-smack went down in sight of land, with all the shrieking,
                    struggling souls on board. For four days and four nights the terrific hurricane
                    revelled in destruction, its wrath only giving way to occasional pauses of heavy
                    silence more awful than its uproar; and by the rocky shores of Ilfracombe, the
                    scene of nature's riot, confusion and terror 
                    attained to a height of indescribable grandeur. The sea rose in precipitous
                    mountain-masses, and anon wallowed in black abysmal chasms,—the clouds flew in a
                    fierce rack overhead like the forms of huge witches astride on eagle-shaped
                    monsters,—and with it all there was a close heat in the air, notwithstanding the
                    tearing wind,—a heat and a sulphureous smell, suggestive of some pent-up hellish
                    fire that but waited its opportunity to break forth and consume the land. On the
                    third day of the gale particularly, this curious sense of suffocation was almost
                    unbearable, and Dr. Kremlin, looking out of his high tower window in the morning
                    at the unquiet sky and savage sea, wondered, as the wind scudded past, why it
                    brought no freshness with it, but only an increased heat, like the "'simoom"' of
                    the desert.
                "'It is one of those days on which it would seem that God is really angry,"'
                    mused Kremlin—"'angry with Himself, and still more angry with His
                    creature."'
                The wind whistled and shrieked in his ears as though it strove to utter some wild
                    response to his thought,—the sullen roaring 
                    and battling of the waves on the beach below sounded like the clashing armour of
                    contesting foes,—and the great Disc in the tower revolved, or appeared to
                    revolve, more rapidly than its wont, its incessant whirr-whirring being always
                    distinctly heard above the fury of the storm. To this, his great work, the chief
                    labour of his life, Dr. Kremlin's eyes turned wistfully, as, after a brief
                    observation of the turbulent weather, he shut his window fast against the
                    sheeting rain. Its shining surface, polished as steel, reflected the lights and
                    shadows of the flying storm-clouds, in strange and beautiful groups like moving
                    landscapes—now and then it flashed with a curious lightning glare of brilliancy
                    as it swung round to its appointed measure, even as a planet swings in its
                    orbit. A new feature had been added to the generally weird effect of Kremlin's
                    strange studio or workshop,—this was a heavy black curtain made of three
                    thicknesses of cloth sewn closely together, and weighted at the end with
                    bullet-shaped balls of lead. It was hung on a thick iron pole, and ran easily on
                    indiarubber rings,—when drawn forward it covered the Disc  completely from the light without interfering with
                    any portion of its mechanism. Three days since, Kremlin had received El-Râmi's
                    letter telling him what the monk from Cyprus had said concerning the "'Third
                    Ray"' or the messages from Mars, and eagerly grasping at the smallest chance of
                    any clue to the labyrinth of the Light-vibrations, he had lost no time in making
                    all the preparations necessary for this grand effort, this attempt to follow the
                    track of the flashing signal whose meaning, though apparently unintelligible,
                    might yet with patience be discovered. So, following the suggestions received,
                    he had arranged the sable drapery, in such a manner that it could be drawn close
                    across the Disc, or, in a second, be flung back to expose the whole surface of
                    the crystal to the light,—all was ready for the trial, when the great storm came
                    and interfered. Dense clouds covered the firmament,—and not for one single
                    moment since he received the monk's message had Kremlin seen the stars. However,
                    he was neither discouraged nor impatient,—he had not worked amid perplexities so
                    long to be disheartened now by a mere tempest,  which in the ordinary course of nature, would wear itself out, and leave the
                    heavens all the clearer both for reflection and observation. Yet he, as a
                    meteorologist, was bound to confess that the fury of the gale was of an
                    exceptional character, and that the height to which the sea lifted itself before
                    stooping savagely towards the land and breaking itself in hissing spouts of
                    spray, was stupendous, and in a manner appalling. Karl, his servant, was
                    entirely horrified at the scene,—he hated the noise of the wind and waves, and
                    more than all he hated the incessant melancholy scream of the seabirds that
                    wheeled in flocks round and round the tower.
                "'It is for all the world like the shrieks of drowning men"'—he said, and
                    shivered, thinking of the pleasantly devious ways of the Rhine and its placid
                    flowing,—placid even in flood, as compared to the howling ocean, all madness and
                    movement and terror. Twice during that turbulent day Karl had asked his master
                    whether the tower "'shook."'
                "'Of course!"' answered Dr. Kremlin with a smile in his mild eyes—"'Of course it
                    shakes,—it can hardly do otherwise in such  a
                    gale. Even a cottage shakes in a fierce wind."'
                "'Oh yes, a cottage shakes,"' said Karl meditatively—"'but then if a cottage
                    blows away altogether, it doesn't so much matter. Cottages are frequently blown
                    away in America, so they say, with all the family sitting inside. That's not a
                    bad way of travelling. But when a tower flies through the air, it seldom carries
                    the family with it except in bits."'
                Kremlin laughed, but did not pursue the conversation, and Karl went about his
                    duties in a gloomy humour, not common to his cheerful temperament. He really had
                    enough to put him out, all things considered. Soot fell down the kitchen
                    chimney—a huge brick also landed itself with a crash in the fender,—there were
                    crevices in the doors and windows through which the wind played wailing sounds
                    like a "'coronach"' on the bagpipes;—and then, when he went out into the
                    courtyard to empty the pail of soot he had taken from the grate, he came
                    suddenly face to face with an ugly bird, whose repulsive aspect  quite transfixed him for the moment and held him
                    motionless, staring at it. It was a hooded vulture, and it stood huddled on the
                    pavement, blinking its disagreeable eyes at Karl,—its floppy wings were drenched
                    with the rain, and all over the yard was the wet trail of its feathers and
                    feet.
                "'Shoo!"' cried Karl, waving his arms and the pail of soot all together—"'Shoo!
                    Beast!"'
                But the vulture appeared not to mind—it merely set about preening its dirty
                    wing.
                Karl grew savage, and running back to the kitchen, brought shovel, tongs and a
                    broom, all of which implements he flung in turn at the horrid-looking creature,
                    which, finally startled, rose in air uttering dismal cries as it circled higher
                    and higher, the while Karl watched its flight,—higher and higher it soared, till
                    at last he ran out of the courtyard to see where it went. Round and round the
                    house it flew, seeming to be literally tossed to and fro by the wind, its
                    unpleasant shriek still echoing distinctly above the deep boom of the sea, till
                    suddenly it made a short sweep downwards, and sat  on the top of the tower like a squat black phantom of
                    the storm.
                "'Nasty brute!"' said Karl, shaking his clenched fist at it—"'If the Herr Doctor
                    were like any other man, which he is not, he would have a gun in the house, and
                    I'd shoot that vile screamer. Now it will sit cackling and yelling there all day
                    and all night perhaps. Pleasant, certainly!"'
                And he went indoors, grumbling more than ever. Everything seemed to go wrong that
                    day,—the fire wouldn't burn,—the kettle wouldn't boil,—and he felt inwardly
                    vexed that his master was not as morose and irritable as himself. But, as it
                    happened, Dr. Kremlin was in a singularly sweet and placid frame of mind,—the
                    noise of the gale seemed to soothe rather than agitate his nerves. For one
                    thing, he was much better in health, and looked years younger than when El-Râmi
                    visited him, bringing the golden flask whose contents were guaranteed to give
                    him a new lease of life. So far indeed the Elixir had done its work,—and to all
                    appearances, he might have been a well-preserved man of about fifty, rather  than what he actually was, close upon his
                    seventy-fourth year. As he could take no particularly interesting or useful
                    observations from his Disc during the progress of the tempest, he amused himself
                    with the task of perfecting one or two of his "'Light-Maps"' as he called them,
                    and he kept at this work with the greatest assiduity and devotion all the
                    morning. These maps were wonderfully interesting, if only for the extreme
                    beauty, intricacy and regularity of the patterns,—one set of "'vibrations"' as
                    copied from the reflections on the Disc, formed the exact shape of a branch of
                    coral,—another gave the delicate outline of a frond of fern. All the lines ran
                    in waves,—none of them were straight. Most of them were in small ripples,—others
                    were larger—some again curved broadly, and turned round in a double twist,
                    forming the figure 8 at long intervals of distance, but all resolved themselves
                    into a definite pattern of some sort.
                "'Pictures in the sky!"' he mused, as he patiently measured and re-touched the
                    lines. "'And all different!—not two of them alike! What do they all mean?—for
                    they  must mean something. Nothing—not the
                    lowest atom that exists, is without a meaning and a purpose. Shall I ever
                    discover the solution to the Light-mystery, or is it so much God's secret that
                    it will never become Man's?"'
                So he wondered, puzzling himself, with a good deal of pleasure in the puzzle. He
                    was happy in his work, despite its strange and difficult character,—El-Râmi's
                    elixir had so calmed and equalized his physical temperament, that he was no
                    longer conscious of worry or perplexity. Satisfied that he had years of life
                    before him in which to work, he was content to let things take their course, and
                    he laboured on in the spirit that all labour claims, "'without haste, without
                    rest."' Feverish hurry in work,—eagerness to get the rewards of it before
                    conscientiously deserving them,—this disposition is a curse of the age we live
                    in and the ruin of true art,—and it was this delirium of haste that had seized
                    Kremlin when he had summoned El-Râmi to his aid. Now, haste seemed
                    unnecessary;—there was plenty of time, and—possessed of the slight clue to the
                    "'Third  Ray,"'—plenty of hope as well, or so
                    he thought.
                In the afternoon the gale gradually abated, and sank to a curiously sudden dead
                    calm. The sea still lifted toppling foam-crowned peaks to the sky, and still
                    uttered shattering roars of indignation,—but there was a break in the clouds and
                    a pale suggestion of sunshine. As the evening closed in, the strange dull
                    quietness of the air deepened,—the black mists on the horizon flashed into
                    stormy red for an instant when the sun set,—and then darkened again into an
                    ominous greenish-gray. Karl, who was busy cooking his master's dinner, stopped
                    stirring some sauce he was making, to listen, as it were, to the silence,—the
                    only sound to be heard was the long roll and swish of the sea on the beach,—and
                    even the scream of the gulls was stilled. Spoon in hand he went out in the yard
                    to observe the weather; all movement in the heavens seemed to have been suddenly
                    checked, and masses of black cloud rested where they were, apparently
                    motionless. And while he looked up at the sky, he could hardly avoid taking the
                    top of the tower also  into his view;—there,
                    to his intense disgust, still sate his enemy of the morning, the hooded vulture.
                    Something that was not quite choice in the way of language escaped his lips as
                    he saw the hateful thing;—its presence was detestable to him and filled his mind
                    with morbid imaginations which no amount of reasoning could chase away.
                "'And yet what is it but a bird!"' he argued with himself angrily, as he went
                    indoors and resumed his cooking operations—"'A bird of prey, fond of
                    carrion—nothing more. Why should I bother myself about it? If I told the Herr
                    Doctor that it was there, squatting at ease on his tower, he would very likely
                    open the window, invite the brute in, and offer it food and shelter for the
                    night. For he is one of those kind-hearted people who think that all the animal
                    creation are worthy of consideration and tenderness. Well,—it may be very good
                    and broad philosophy,—all the same, if I caught a rat sitting in my bed, I
                    shouldn't like it,—nor would I care to share my meals with a lively party of
                    cockroaches. There are limits to Christian feelings. And as for that beast of a
                    bird outside,  why it's better outside than
                    in, so I'll say nothing about it."'
                And he devoted himself more intently than ever to the preparation of the dinner,
                    for his master had now an excellent appetite, and ate good things with
                    appreciation and relish, a circumstance which greatly consoled Karl for many
                    other drawbacks in the service he had undertaken. For he was a perfect cook, and
                    proud of his art, and that night he was particularly conscious of the excellence
                    of the little tasty dishes he had, to use an artterm, "'created,"' and he
                    watched his master enjoy their flavour, with a proud, keen sense of his own
                    consummate skill.
                "'When a man relishes his food it is all right with him,"' he thought.—"'Starving
                    for the sake of science may be all very well, but if it kills the scientist,
                    what becomes of the science?"'
                And he grew quite cheerful in the contemplation of the "'Herr Doctor's"' improved
                    appetite, and by degrees almost forgot the uncanny bird that was still sitting
                    on the topmost ledge of the tower.
                Among other studious habits engendered  by long
                    solitude into which Kremlin had fallen, was the somewhat unhygienic one of
                    reading at meals. Most frequently it was a volume of poems with which he
                    beguiled the loneliness of his dinner, for he was one of those rare few who
                    accept and believe in what may be called the "'Prophecies"' of Poesy. These are
                    in very truth often miraculous, and it can be safely asserted that if the
                    writers of the Bible had not been poets they would never have been prophets. A
                    poet,—if he indeed be a poet, and not a mere manufacturer of
                    elegant verse,—always raves,—raves madly, blindly, incoherently of things he
                    does not really understand. Moreover, it is not himself that raves—but a
                    Something within him,—some demoniac or angelic spirit that clamours its wants in
                    wild music, which by throbbing measure and degree resolves itself, after some
                    throes of pain on the poet's part, into a peculiar and occasionally vague
                    language. The poet as man, is no more than man; but that palpitating voice in
                    his mind gives him no rest, tears his thoughts piecemeal, rends his soul, and
                    consumes him with feverish trouble and anxiety not his own, till  he has given it some sort of speech, however mystic
                    and strange. If it resolves itself into a statement which appals or amazes, he,
                    the poet, cannot help it; if it enunciates a prophecy he is equally incapable of
                    altering or refuting it. When Shakespeare wrote the three words, "'Sermons in
                    stones,"' he had no idea that he was briefly expounding with perfect
                    completeness the then to him unknown science of Geology. The poet is not born of
                    Flesh alone, but of Spirit—a Spirit which dominates him whether he will or no,
                    from the very first hour in which his childish eyes look inquiringly on leaves
                    and flowers and stars—a Spirit which catches him by the hands, kisses him on the
                    lips, whispers mad nothings in his startled ears, flies restlessly round and
                    about him, brushing his every sense with downy, warm, hurrying wings,—snatches
                    him up altogether at times and bids him sing, write, cry out strange oracles,
                    weep forth wild lamentations, and all this without ever condescending to explain
                    to him the reason why. It is left to the world to discover this "'Why,"' and the
                    discovery is often not made till ages after the poet's mortal  dust has been transformed to flowers in the grass
                    which little children gather and wear unknowingly. The poet whose collected
                    utterances Dr. Kremlin was now reading as he sipped the one glass of light
                    Burgundy which concluded his meal, was Byron; the fiery singer whose exquisite
                    music is pooh-poohed by the insipid critics of the immediate day, who, jealous
                    of his easily-won and worldwide fame, grudge him the laurel, even though it
                    spring from the grave of a Hero as well as Bard. The book was open at
                    "'Manfred,"' and the lines on which old Kremlin's eyes rested were these:— 
                        "'How beautiful is all this visible world!
                        How glorious in its action and itself!
                        But we who name ourselves its sovereigns, we,
                        Half dust, half deity, alike unfit
                        To sink or soar, with our mix'd essence make
                        A conflict of its elements, and breathe
                        The breath of degradation and of pride,
                        Contending with low wants and lofty will,
                        Till our mortality predominates,
                        And men are,—what they name not to themselves,
                        And trust not to each other."'
                    
                "'Now that passage is every whit as fine as anything in Shakespeare,"' thought
                    Kremlin—"'and the whole secret of human trouble  is in it;—it is not the world that is wrong, but we—we 'who make a conflict
                    of its elements.' The question is, if we are really 'unfit to sink or soar' is
                    it our fault?—and may we not ask without irreverence why we were made so
                    incomplete? Ah, my clever friend El-Râmi Zarânos has set himself a superhuman
                    task on the subject of this 'Why,' and I fancy I shall find out the riddle of
                    Mars and many another planet besides, before he 'proves,' as he is trying to do,
                    the conscious and individual existence of the soul."'
                He turned over the pages of "'Manfred"' thoughtfully, and then stopped, his gaze
                    riveted on the splendid lines in which the unhappy hero of the tragedy flings
                    his last defiance to the accusing demons— 
                        "'The mind which is immortal makes itself
                        Requital for its good or evil thoughts—
                        Is its own origin of ill and end—
                        And its own place and time—its innate sense,
                        When stripped of this mortality, derives
                        No colour from the fleeting things without,
                        But is absorbed in sufferance or in joy,
                        Born from the knowledge of its own desert.
                        Thou did'st not tempt me, and thou could'st not tempt;
                        I have not been thy dupe, nor am thy prey—
                        
                        But was my own destroyer, and will be
                        My own hereafter.—Back, ye baffled fiends!
                        The hand of death is on me,—but not yours!"'
                    
                "'And yet people will say that Byron was an immoral writer!"' murmured
                    Kremlin—"'In spite of the tremendous lesson conveyed in those lines! There is
                    something positively terrifying in that expression— 
                        "''But was my own destroyer, and will be
                        My own hereafter.'
                     What a black vista of possibilities—"'
                Here he broke off, suddenly startled by a snaky blue glare that flashed into the
                    room like the swift sweep of a sword-blade. Springing up from the table, he
                    rubbed his dazzled eyes.
                "'Why—what was that?"' he exclaimed.
                "'Lightning!"' replied Karl, just entering at the moment—"'and a very nasty
                    specimen of it.... I'd better put all the knives and steel things by."'
                And he proceeded to do this, while Kremlin still stood in the centre of the room,
                    his sight yet a little confused by the rapidity and brilliancy of that
                    unexpected storm-flash. A  long low ominous
                    muttering of thunder, beginning far off and rolling up nearer and nearer till it
                    boomed like a volley of cannon in unison with the roar of the sea, followed,
                    then came silence. No rain fell, and the wind only blew moderately enough to
                    sway the shrubs in front of the house lightly to and fro.
                "'It will be a stormy night,"' said Dr. Kremlin then, recovering himself and
                    taking up his Byron—"'I am sorry for the sailors! You had better see well to all
                    the fastenings of the doors and windows."'
                "'Trust me!"' replied Karl sententiously—"'You shall not be carried out to sea
                    against your will if I can help it—nor have I any desire to make such a voyage
                    myself. I hope, Herr Doctor"'—he added with a touch of anxiety—"'you are not
                    going to spend this evening in the tower?"'
                "'I certainly am!"' answered Kremlin, smiling—"'I have work up there, and I
                    cannot afford to be idle on account of a thunderstorm. Why do you look so
                    scared? There is no danger."'
                "'I didn't say there was"'—and Karl  fidgeted
                    uneasily—"'but—though I've never been inside it, I should think the tower was
                    lonesome, and I should fancy there might be too close a view of the lightning to
                    be quite pleasant."'
                Kremlin looked amused, and walking to the window, pushed back one of the
                    curtains.
                "'I believe it was a false alarm,"' he said, gazing at the sea—"'That flash and
                    thunder-peal were the parting notes of a storm that has taken place somewhere
                    else. See!—the clouds are clearing."'
                So in truth they were; the evening, though very dark, seemed to give promise of a
                    calm. One or two stars twinkled faintly in a blackish-blue breadth of sky, and
                    perceiving these shining monitors and problems of his life's labour, Kremlin
                    wasted no more time in words, but abruptly left the room and ascended to his
                    solitary studio. Karl, listening, heard the closing of the heavy door aloft and
                    the grating of the key as it turned in the lock,—and he also heard that strange
                    perpetual whirring noise above, which, though he had in a manner grown
                    accustomed to it, always remained for him a perplexing mystery.  Shaking his head dolefully, and with a somewhat
                    troubled countenance, he cleared the dining-table, set the room in order, went
                    down to his kitchen, cleaned, rubbed, and polished everything till his
                    surroundings were as bright as it was possible for them to be, and then,
                    pleasantly fatigued, sat down to indite a letter to his mother in the most
                    elaborate German phraseology he could devise. He was rather proud of his
                    "'learning,"' and he knew his letters home were read by nearly all the people in
                    his native village as well as by his maternal parent, so that he was
                    particularly careful in his efforts to impress everybody by the exceeding
                    choiceness of his epistolary "'style."' Absorbed in his task, he at first
                    scarcely noticed the gradual rising of the wind, which, having rested for a few
                    hours, now seemed to have awakened in redoubled strength and fury. Whistling
                    under the kitchen-door it came, with a cold and creepy chill,—it shook the
                    windows angrily, and then, finding the door of the outside pantry open, shut it
                    to with a tremendous bang, like an irate person worsted in an argument. Karl
                    paused, pen in hand;  and as he did so, a
                    dismal cry echoed round the house, the sound seeming to fall from a height and
                    then sweep over the earth with the wind, towards the sea.
                "'It's that brute of a bird!"' said Karl half-aloud—"'Nice cheerful voice he has,
                    to be sure!"'
                At that moment, the kitchen was illuminated from end to end by a wide blue glare
                    of lightning, followed, after a heavy pause, by a short loud clap of thunder.
                    The hovering storm had at last gathered together its scattered forces, and
                    concentrating itself blackly above the clamorous sea, now broke forth in deadly
                    earnest.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XI.
                KREMLIN meanwhile had reached his tower in time to
                    secure a glimpse of the clearer portion of the sky before it clouded over again.
                    Opening the great window, he leaned out and anxiously surveyed the heavens.
                    There was a little glitter of star-groups above his head, and immediately
                    opposite an almost stirless heavy fleece of blackness, which he knew by its
                    position hid from his sight the planet Mars, the brilliant world he now sought
                    to make the chief centre of his observations. He saw that heavy clouds were
                    slowly rolling up from the south, and he was quite prepared for a fresh outbreak
                    of storm and rain, but he was determined to take advantage, if possible, of even
                    a few moments of temporary calm. And with this  intention he fixed his gaze watchfully on the woolly-looking dark mass of
                    vapour that concealed the desired Star from his view, having first carefully
                    covered the steadily revolving Disc with its thick sable curtain. Never surely
                    was there a more weird and solemn-looking place than the tower-room as it now
                    appeared; no light in it at all save a fitful side-gleam from the whirling edge
                    of the Disc,—all darkness and monotonous deep sound, with that patient solitary
                    figure leaning at the sill of the wide-open window, gazing far upward at the
                    pallid gleam of those few distant stars that truly did no more than make
                    "'darkness visible."' The aged scientist's heart beat quickly; the weight of
                    long years of labour and anxiety seemed to be lifted from his spirit, and it was
                    with almost all the ardour of his young student-days that he noted the gradual
                    slow untwisting and dividing of those threads of storm-mist, that like a dark
                    web, woven by the Fates, veiled the "'red Planet"' whose flashing Signal might
                    prove to be the key to a thousand hitherto unexplored mysteries. It was strange
                    that just at this particular  moment of vague
                    suspense his thoughts should go wandering in a desultory wilful fashion back to
                    this past,—and that the history of his bygone life seemed to arrange itself, as
                    it were, in a pattern as definite as the wavy lines on his "'Light-Maps"' and
                    with just as indefinite a meaning. He, who had lived that life, was
                    as perplexed concerning its ultimate intention, as he was concerning the
                    ultimate meanings conveyed by the light-vibrations through air. He tried to keep
                    his ideas centred on the scientific puzzle he was attempting to unravel,—he
                    strove to think of every small fact that bore more or less on that one central
                    object,—he repeated to himself the A B C of his art, concerning the vibrations
                    of light on that first natural reflector, the human eye,—how, in receiving the
                    impression of the colour red, for instance, the nerves of the eye are set
                    quivering four hundred and eighty-two millions of millions of
                        times; or, of the colour violet, seven hundred and seven millions of
                    millions of times per second. How could he hope to catch the rapid
                    flash of the "'Third Ray"' under these tremendous 
                        con-
                        conditions
                    
                     ditions? Would it not vanish from the very
                    face of the Disc before he had time to track its circuit? But though he strove
                    to busy his brain with conjectures and calculations, he was forced, in spite of
                    himself, to go on groping into the Past; that wonderful Past when he had been
                    really young—young with a youth not born of El-Râmi's secret concoctions,—but
                    youth as it is received fresh and perfect from the hand of Divinity—the talisman
                    which makes all the world an Eden of roses without thorns. He saw himself as he
                    used to be, a slim student, fair-haired and blue-eyed, absorbed in science,
                    trying strange experiments, testing new chemical combinations, ferreting out the
                    curious mysteries of atmospheric phenomena, and then being gradually led to
                    consider the vast amount of apparently unnecessary Light per
                        second, that pours upon us from every radiating object in the
                    firmament, bearing in mind the fact that our Earth itself radiates through
                    Space, even though its glimmer be no more than that of a spark amid many huge
                    fires. He remembered how he had pored over the  strange but incontestable fact that two rays of light starting from the same
                    point and travelling in the same direction frequently combine to produce
                    darkness, by that principle which is known in the science of Optics as the
                        interference of the rays of light,—and how, in the midst of all
                    this, his work had been suddenly interrupted and put a stop to by a power the
                    stars in their courses cannot gainsay—Love. Yes—he had loved and been
                    beloved,—this poor, gentle, dreamy man;—one winter in Russia—one winter when the
                    snows lay deep on the wild steppes and the wolves were howling for hunger in the
                    gloom of the forests,—he had dreamed his dream, and wakened from
                    it—broken-hearted. She whom he loved, a beautiful girl connected with the
                    Russian nobility, was associated, though he knew it not, with a secret society
                    of Nihilists, and was all at once arrested with several others and accused of
                    being party to a plot for the assassination of the Tsar. Found guilty, she was
                    sentenced to exile in Siberia, but before the mandate could be carried out, she
                    died by her own hand, poisoned in her prison 
                    cell. Kremlin, though not "'suspect,"' went almost mad with grief, and fled from
                    Russia never to set his foot on its accursëd soil again. People said that the
                    excess of his sorrow, rage and despair had affected his brain, which was
                    possible, as his manner and mode of living, and the peculiar grooves of study
                    into which he fell, were undoubtedly strange and eccentric—and yet—tenderness
                    for his dead love, self-murdered in her youth and beauty, kept him sensitively
                    alive to human needs and human suffering,—there was no scorn or bitterness in
                    his nature, and his faith in the unseen God was as great as El-Râmi's doubt. But
                    left as he was all alone in the world, he plunged into the obscure depths of
                    science with greater zest than ever, striving to forget the dire agony of that
                    brief love-drama, the fatal end of which had nearly closed his own career in
                    madness and death. And so the years drifted on and on in work that every day
                    grew more abstruse and perplexing, till he had suddenly, as it were, found
                    himself old,—too old, as he told himself with nervous trembling, ever to
                    complete what he had  begun. Then he had sent
                    for El-Râmi; El-Râmi whom he had met and wondered at, during his travels in the
                    East years ago ... and El-Râmi, at his desire, by strange yet potent skill, had
                    actually turned back time in its too rapid flight—and a new lease of life was
                    vouchsafed to him;—he had leisure,—long, peaceful leisure in which to carry out
                    his problems to perfection, if to carry them out were at all possible. For had
                    not El-Râmi said—"'You cannot die, except by violence"'?
                And thus, like the "'star-patterns,"' all the fragments of his personal history
                    came into his mind to-night as he waited at his tower window, watching the black
                    pavilion under which the world of Mars swung round in its fiery orbit.
                "'Why do I think of all these bygone things just now?"' he asked himself
                    wonderingly—"'I who so seldom waste my time in looking back, my work being all
                    for the Future?"'
                As he murmured the words half aloud, a rift showed itself in the cloud he was
                    observing,—a rift which widened gradually and 
                    broke up the dark mass by swift and ever swifter degrees. Fold after fold of
                    mist dissolved and dispersed itself along the sky, swept by the wings of the
                    newly-arisen wind, and Mars, angrily crimson and stormily brilliant, flashed
                    forth a lurid fire.... In less time than imagination can depict, Kremlin had
                    noiselessly flung the black curtain back from his Disc, ... and with his eyes
                    riveted upon its gleaming pearly surface he waited ... scarcely breathing, ...
                    every nerve in his body seeming to contract and grow rigid with expectation and
                    something like dread. A pale light glistened on the huge Disc ... it was gone!
                    ... another flash, ... and this remained trembling in wavy lines and small
                    revolving specks—now ... now ... the Third!—and Kremlin craned his head forward
                    eagerly ... it came!—like a drop of human blood it fell, and raced more rapidly
                    than quicksilver round and round the polished surface of the Disc, paling in
                    tint among the other innumerable silvery lines ... flashed again redly ..and ...
                    disappeared! A cry of irrepressible disappointment broke from Kremlin's
                    lips.
                
                "'Impossible! ... my God! ... Impossible!"'
                Aye!—impossible surely to track such velocity of motion—impossible to fix the
                    spot where first its dazzling blood-like hue fell, and where it at last
                    vanished. And yet Kremlin waited on in feverish expectancy, his lips apart, his
                    breath coming and going in quick uneasy gasps, his straining eyes fixed on that
                    terrible, inscrutable creation of his own skill, that fearful Mirror of the
                    heavens which reflected so much and betrayed so little! ... Heedless of the
                    muttering roar of the wind which now suddenly assailed the tower, he stood,
                    fascinated by the dazzling play of light that illumined the Disc more
                    brilliantly than usual. A dismal scream,—the cry of the vulture perched on the
                    roof above him, echoed faintly in his ears, but he scarcely heard it, so
                    absorbed was he in his monstrous Enigma; till—all at once, a blue shaft of
                    lightning glared in at the window, its brief reflection transforming the Disc
                    for a second to an almost overwhelming splendour of glittering colour. The
                    strong blaze dazzled Kremlin's eyes,—and as the 
                        answer-
                        answering
                    
                     ing thunder rattled through the sky, he
                    reluctantly moved from his position and went towards the window to shut it
                    against the threatening storm. But when he reached it, he saw that the planet
                    Mars was yet distinctly visible; the lightning and thunder came from that huge
                    bank of clouds in the south he had before noticed,—clouds which were flying
                    rapidly up, but had not yet entirely obscured the heavens. In eager and
                    trembling haste he hurried back to the Disc,—it seemed alive with light, and
                    glistened from point to point like a huge jewel as it whirled and hummed its
                    strange monotonous music,—and, shading his eyes, he remained close beside it,
                    determined to watch it still, hoping against hope that another red flash like
                    the one he had lately seen, might crimson the quivering mass of silvery
                    intersecting lines which he knew were not so much the light-vibrations of stars
                    now, as reflexes of the electricity pent up in the tempestuous atmosphere.
                "'Patience ... patience!"' he murmured aloud—"'A moment more, and perhaps I shall
                    see, ... I shall know ... I shall find what I have sought...."'
                
                The last words were yet trembling on his lips when a fearful forkëd tongue of red
                    flame leaped from the clouds, descending obliquely like a colossal sword, ... it
                    smote the tower, splitting its arched roof and rending its walls asunder,—and
                    with the frightful boom and bellow of thunder that followed, echoing over land
                    and sea for miles and miles there came another sound, ... a clanging jangle of
                    chains and wires and ponderous metals, ... the mighty mass of the glittering
                    Star-Dial swirled round unsteadily once ... twice ... quivered ... stopped ...
                    and then ... slipping from its wondrous pendulum, hurled itself forward like a
                    monster shield and fell! ... fell with an appalling crash and thud, bringing the
                    roof down upon itself in a blinding shower of stones and dust and mortar.... And
                    then ... why, then nothing! Nothing but dense blackness, muttering thunder, and
                    the roaring of the wind.
                Outside, frantic with fear, Karl shook and battered at the firmly-locked and
                    bolted door of the tower. When that forked flash of  lightning had struck the house, it had stretched him
                    senseless in his kitchen,—he had however recovered after a few minutes'
                    unconsciousness, dazed and stunned but otherwise unhurt, and becoming gradually
                    alive to the immediate dangers of the situation, he had, notwithstanding the
                    fury of the gale and the deafening peals of thunder, rushed out of doors
                    instinctively to look at the tower. One glance showed him what had happened,—it
                    was split asunder, and showed dimly against the stormy night like a yawning ruin
                    round which in time the ivy might twist and cling. Breathless and mad with
                    terror, he had rushed back to the house and up the stairs, and now stood
                    impatiently clamouring outside the impenetrable portal whose firm interior
                    fastenings resisted all his efforts. He called, he knocked, he kicked,—and then,
                    exhausted with the vain attempt, stopped to listen.... Nothing! ... not a sound!
                    He made a hollow of his hands and put his mouth to the keyhole.
                "'Herr Doctor! ... Herr Doctor!"'
                No answer,—except the stormy whistle of the blast.
                
                "'No help for it!"' he thought desperately, tears of excitement and alarm
                    gathering in his eyes—"'I must call for assistance,—rouse the neighbours and
                    break open the door by force."'
                He ran downstairs and out of the house bareheaded, to be met by a sudden sweep of
                    rain which fell in a straight unpremeditated way from the clouds in stinging
                    torrents. Heedless of wind and wet he sped along, making direct for some
                    fishermen's cottages whose inhabitants he knew and whom in a manner he was
                    friendly with, and having roused them up by shouts and cries, explained to them
                    as briefly as possible what had happened. As soon as they understood the
                    situation four stout fellows got ready to accompany him, and taking pickaxes,
                    crowbars, boathooks, and any other such implements as were handy, they ran
                    almost as quickly as Karl himself to the scene of the catastrophe. Their
                    excitement was to the full as great as his, till they reached the top of the
                    staircase and stood outside the mysterious door—there they hung back a moment
                    hesitatingly.
                
                "'Call him again"'—one whispered to Karl. "'Mebbe he's in there safe and sound
                    and did not hear ye at fust."'
                To satisfy the man's scruples Karl obeyed, and called and called, and knocked and
                    knocked again and yet again,—with the same result,—no answer, save the derisive
                    yell of the gale.
                "'He be dead an' gone for sure"'—said a second man, with a slight pallor coming
                    over his sea-tanned face—"'Well ... well! ... if so be as we must
                    break down th' door—"'
                "'Here, give me one of those things"'—cried Karl impatiently, and snatching a
                    crowbar he began dealing heavy blows at the massive nail-studded oaken barrier.
                    Seeing him so much in earnest, his companions lost the touch of superstitious
                    dread that had made them hesitate, and also set themselves to work with a will,
                    and in a few minutes—minutes which to the anxious Karl seemed ages,—the door was
                    battered in, ... and they all rushed forward, ... but the fierce wind tearing
                    wildly around them, caught the flame of the lamp they carried and extinguished
                    it, so that they were left in total  darkness.
                    But over their heads the split roof yawned, showing the black sky, and about
                    their feet there was a mass of fallen stones and dust and indistinguishable
                    ruin. As quickly as possible they re-lit the lamp and holding it aloft, looked
                    tremblingly and without speaking a word, at the havoc and confusion around them.
                    At first little could be seen but heaped-up stones and bricks and mortar, but
                    Karl's quick eyes roving eagerly about caught sight suddenly of something black
                    under a heap of débris,—and quickly bending
                    down over it he began with his hands to clear away the rubbish,—the other men,
                    seeing what he was trying to do, aided him in his task, and in about twenty
                    minutes' time they succeeded in uncovering a black mass, huge and inanimate.
                "'What is it?"' whispered one of the men—"'It's ... it's not him?"'
                Karl said nothing—he felt himself turning sick with dread, ... he touched that
                    doubtful blackness—it was a thick cloth like a great pall—it concealed ... what?
                    Recklessly he pulled and tugged at it, getting his  hands lacerated by a tangled mesh of wires and
                    metals,—till, yielding at last to a strong jerk, it came away in weighty
                    clinging folds, disclosing what to him seemed an enormous round stone, which, as
                    the lamp-light flashed upon it, glistened mysteriously with a thousand curious
                    hues. Karl grasped its edge in an effort to lift it—his fingers came in contact
                    with something moist and warm, and snatching them away in a sort of vague
                    horror, he saw that they were stained with blood.
                "'Oh my God! my God!"' he cried—"'He is down there,—underneath this thing! ...
                    help me to lift it, men!—lift it for Heaven's sake!—lift it, quick—quick!"'
                But though they all dragged at it with a will, the work was not so easy—the great
                    Disc had fallen flat, and lay solemnly inert—and that oozing blood,—the blood of
                    the too daring student of the stars who had designed its mystic
                    proportions,—trickled from under it with sickening rapidity. At last, breathless
                    and weary, they were about to give up the task in despair, when Karl snatched
                    from out  the ruins the iron needle or
                    pendulum on which the Disc had originally swung, and all unknowing what it was,
                    thrust it cautiously under the body of the great stone to aid in getting a
                    firmer hold of it, ... to his amazement and terror the huge round mass caught
                    and clung to it, like warm sealing wax to a piece of paper, and in an instant
                    seemed to have magically dispensed with all its weight, for as, with his
                    unassisted strength he lifted the pendulum, the Disc lifted itself lightly and
                    easily with it! A cry of fear and wonder broke from all the men,—Karl himself
                    trembled in every limb, and big drops of cold sweat broke out on his forehead at
                    what he deemed the devilish horror of this miracle. But as he, with no more
                    difficulty than he would have experienced in heaving up a moderate-sized log of
                    wood, raised the Disc and flung it back and away from him shudderingly, pendulum
                    and all, his eyes fell on what had lain beneath it, ... a crushed
                    pulp of human flesh and streaming blood—and reverend silver hairs ... and with a
                    groan that seemed to rend his very heart, Karl  gave one upward sick stare at the reeling sky, and fainted, ... as
                    unconscious for the time being as that indistinguishable mangled mass of
                    perished mortality that once had been his master.
                Gently and with compassionate kindness, the rough fishers who stood by lifted him
                    up and bore him out of the tower and down the stairs,—and after a whispered
                    consultation, carried him away from the house altogether to one of their own
                    cottages, where they put him under the care of one of their own women. None of
                    them could sleep any more that night; they stood in a group close by their
                    humble habitations, watching the progress of the storm, and ever and anon
                    casting awe-stricken glances at the shattered tower.
                "'The devil was in it"'—said one of the men at last, as he lit his pipe and
                    endeavoured to soothe his nerves by several puffs at that smoky consoler—"'or
                    else how would it rise up like that as light as a feather at the touch of an
                    iron pole?"'
                
                "'It must a' weighed twenty stun at least"'—murmured another man
                    meditatively.
                "'What was it?"' demanded a third—"'I should a' took it for a big
                    grindstone if it hadn't sparkled up so when the light fell on it."'
                "'Well, it may stay where it is for all I care,"' said the first speaker—"'I
                    wouldn't touch it again for a hundred pound!"'
                "'Nor I."' "'Nor I."'
                They were all agreed on that point.
                "'Wotever he were a' doin' on,"'—said the fourth man gravely—"'whether it were
                    God's work or the devil's, it's all over now. He's done for, poor old
                    chap—mashed into a reg'lar jelly—wiped out as it were. It's an awful end—God
                    rest his soul!"'
                The others lifted their caps and murmured "'Amen"' with simple reverence. Then
                    they looked out at the dark wallowing trough of the sea.
                "'How the wind roars!"' said the last speaker.
                "'Ay, it do roar,"' replied the man who was his mate in the boat when they went
                    fishing;  "'and did ye hear a vulture scream
                    awhile ago?"'
                "'Ay, ay! I heard it!"' They were silent then, and turned in, after making
                    inquiries concerning Karl at the cottage where they had left him. He was still
                    unconscious.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XII.
                A COUPLE of days later, El-Râmi was engaged in what
                    was not a very favourite occupation with him,—he was reading the morning's
                    newspaper. He glanced over the cut-and-dry chronicle of "'Storms and Floods"'—he
                    noted that a great deal of damage had been wrought by the gale at Ilfracombe and
                    other places along the Devonshire coast,—but there was nothing of any specially
                    dreadful import to attract his attention, and nothing either in politics or
                    science of any pressing or vital interest. There were two or three reviews of
                    books, one of these being pressed into a corner next to the advertisement of a
                    patent pill; there were announcements of the movements of certain human units
                    favoured with a little extra money and 
                    position than ordinary, as being "'in"' or "'out"' of town, and there was a
                    loftily-patronizing paragraph on the "'Theosophical Movement,"' or as it is more
                    frequently termed, the "'Theosophical Boom."' From this, El-Râmi learned that a
                    gentleman connected with the Press, who wrote excessively common-place verse,
                    and thereby had got himself and his name (through the afore-said
                    press-connection) fairly well known, had been good enough to enunciate the
                    following amazing platitude;—"'That, as a great portion of the globe is composed
                    of elements which cannot be seen, and as the study of the invisible may be
                    deemed as legitimate as the study of the visible, he"' (the press-connected
                    versifier) "'is inclined to admit that there are great possibilities on the
                    lines of that study."'
                "'Inclined to admit it, is he!"' and El-Râmi threw aside the paper and broke into
                    a laugh of the sincerest enjoyment—"'Heavens! what fools there are in this
                    world, who call themselves wise men! This little poetaster, full of the conceit
                    common to his imitative craft, is 'inclined to admit' that  there are great possibilities in the study of the
                    invisible! Excellent condescension! How the methods of life have turned
                    topsy-turvy since the ancient days! Then the study of the Invisible was the
                    first key to the study of the Visible,—the things which are seen being
                    considered only as the reflexes of the things which are unseen—the Unseen being
                    accepted as Cause, the Seen as Effect. Now we all drift the other way,—taking
                    the Visible as Fact,—the Invisible as Fancy!"'
                Féraz, who was writing at a side-table, looked up at him.
                "'Surely you are inconsistent?"' he said—"'You yourself believe in nothing unless
                    it is proved."'
                "'But then, my dear fellow, I can prove the Invisible and follow the
                    grades of it, and the modes by which it makes itself the Visible,—to a certain
                    extent—but only to a certain extent. Beyond the provable limit I do not go. You,
                    on the contrary, aided by the wings of imagination, outsoar that limit, and
                    profess to find angels, star-kingdoms, and God Himself. I cannot go so far as
                    this.  But, unlike our blown-out frog of a
                    versifier here, who would fain persuade mankind he is a bull, I am not only
                    'inclined' to admit—I do admit that there are 'great
                    possibilities'—only I must test them all before I can accept them as facts made
                    clear to my comprehension."'
                "'Still, you believe in the Invisible?"'
                "'Naturally. I believe in the millions of suns in the Milky Way, though they can
                    scarcely be called 'visible.' I should be a fool if I did not believe in the
                    Invisible, under the present conditions of the Universe. But I cannot be tricked
                    by 'shams' of the Invisible. The Theosophical business is a piece of vulgar
                    imposture, in which the professors themselves are willing to delude their own
                    imaginations, as well as the imaginations of others—they are the most wretched
                    imitators that ever were of the old Eastern sorcerers,—the fellows who taught
                    Moses and Aaron how to frighten their ignorant cattle-like herds of followers.
                    None of the modern 'mediums' as they are called, have the skill over atmospheric
                    phenomena, metals and light-reflexes, that Apollonius of Tyana had, or Alexander
                    the  Paphlagonian. Both these scientific
                    sorcerers were born about the same time as Christ, and Apollonius like Christ,
                    raised a maiden from the dead. Miracles were the fashion in that period of
                    time,—and according to the monotonous manner in which history repeats itself,
                    they are coming into favour again in this century. All that we know now has been
                    already known. The ancient Greeks had their 'penny-in-the-slot' machine for the
                    purpose of scattering perfume on their clothes as they passed along the
                    streets—they had their 'syphon' bottles and vases as we have, and they had their
                    automatically opening and closing doors. Compare the miserable 'spiritualistic
                    phenomena' of the Theosophists with the marvels wrought by Hakem, known as
                    Mokanna! Mokanna could cause an orb like the moon to rise from a well at a
                    certain hour and illumine the country for miles and miles around. How did he do
                    it? By a knowledge of electric force applied to air and water. The 'bogies' of a
                    modern 'séance' who talk bad grammar and pinch people's toes and fingers, are
                    very coarse examples of necromancy, compared to the  scientific skill of Mokanna and others of this tribe.
                    However, superstition is the same in all ages, and there will always be fools
                    ready to believe in 'Mahatmas' or anything else,—and the old 'incantation of the
                    Mantra,' will, if well done, influence the minds of the dupes of the nineteenth
                    century quite as effectively as it did those of the bygone ages before
                    Christ."'
                "'What is the incantation of the Mantra?"' asked Féraz.
                "'A ridiculous trick"'—replied El-Râmi—"'known to every Eastern conjurer and old
                    woman who professes to see the future. You take your dupe, and fling a little
                    water over him, fixing upon him your eyes and all the force of your will,—then,
                    you take a certain mixture of chemical substances and perfumes, and set them on
                    fire—the flames and fumes produce a dazzling and drowsy effect on the senses of
                    your 'subject,' who will see whatever you choose him to see, and hear whatever
                    you intend him to hear. But Will is the chief ingredient of the spell,—and if I,
                    for example, choose to influence anyone, I can dispense with both water and
                    fire—I can  do it alone and without any show
                    of preparation."'
                "'I know you can!"' said Féraz meaningly, with a slight smile, and then was
                    silent.
                "'I wonder what the art of criticism is coming to now-a-days!"' exclaimed El-Râmi
                    presently, taking up the paper again—"'Here is a remark worthy of Dogberry's
                        profundity—'This is a book that must be read to be understood.'* Why, naturally! Who can understand a
                    book without reading it?"'
                Féraz laughed—then his eyes darkened.
                "'I saw an infamous so-called critique of one of Madame Vassilius's books the
                    other day"'—he said—"'I should like to have thrashed the man who wrote it. It
                    was not criticism at all—it was a mere piece of scurrilous vulgarity."'
                "'Ah, but that sort of thing pays!"' retorted El-Râmi satirically. "'The modern
                    journalist attains his extremest height of brilliancy when he throws the refuse
                    of his inkpot at the name and fame of a woman more gifted than himself. It's
                    nineteenth-century chivalry you know,—above all ... it's manly!"'
                * Copied verbatim from the current
                    Press.
                
                Féraz shrugged his shoulders with a faint gesture of contempt.
                "'Then—if there is any truth in old chronicles—men are not what they were;"'—he
                    said.
                "'No—they are not what they were, my dear boy—because all things have changed.
                    Women were once the real slaves and drudges of men,—now, they are very nearly
                    their equals, or can be so if they choose. And men have to get accustomed to
                    this—at present they are in the transition state and don't like it. Besides,
                    there will always be male tyrants and female drudges as long as the world lasts.
                    Men are not what they were,—and, certes, they are not what they might be."'
                "'They might be gods;"'—said Féraz—"'but I suppose they prefer to be
                    devils."'
                "'Precisely!"' agreed El-Râmi—"'it is easier, and more amusing."'
                Féraz resumed his writing in silence. He was thinking of Irene Vassilius, whom he
                    admired;—and also of that wondrous Sleeping Beauty enshrined upstairs whose
                    loveliness he did not dare to speak of. He had latterly  noticed a great change in his brother,—an indefinable
                    softness seemed to have imperceptibly toned down the habitual cynicism of his
                    speech and manner,—his very expression of countenance was more gracious and
                    benign,—he looked handsomer,—his black eyes shot forth a less fierce fire,—and
                    yet, with all his gentleness and entire lack of impatience, he was absorbed from
                    morning to night in such close and secret study as made Féraz sometimes fear for
                    its ultimate result on his health.
                "'Do you really believe in prayer, Féraz?"' was the very unexpected question he
                    now asked, with sudden and startling abruptness; "'I mean, do you think anyone
                    in the Invisible Realms hears us when we pray?"'
                Féraz laid down his pen, and gazed at his brother for a moment without answering.
                    Then he said slowly—
                "'Well, according to your own theories the Air is a vast Phonograph,—so it
                    follows naturally that everything is heard and kept.
                    But as to prayer, that depends I think, altogether on how you pray. I do not
                    believe in it at all times. And I'm afraid my ideas  on the subject are quite out of keeping with those
                    generally accepted—"'
                "'Never mind—let me have them, whatever they are"'—interrupted El-Râmi with
                    visible eagerness—"'I want to know when and how you pray?"'
                "'Well, the fact is I very seldom pray"'—returned Féraz—"'I offer up the best
                    praise I can in mortal language devise, both night and morning—but I never
                        ask for anything. It would seem so vile to ask for more, having
                    already so much. And I am sure God knows best—in which case I have nothing to
                    ask, except one thing."'
                "'And that is—?"' queried his brother.
                "'Punishment!"' replied Féraz emphatically; "'I pray for that—I crave for that—I
                    implore that I may be punished at once when I have done wrong, that I may
                    immediately recognise my error. I would rather be punished here, than
                    hereafter."'
                El-Râmi paled a little, and his lips trembled.
                "'Strange boy!"' he murmured—"'All the churches are praying God to take away the
                    punishments incurred for sin,—you on the contrary, ask for it as if it were a
                    blessing."'
                
                "'So it is a blessing"'—declared Féraz—"'It must be a blessing—and it is absurd
                    of the churches to pray against a Law. For it is a Law. Nature punishes us, when
                    we physically rebel against the rules of health, by physical suffering and
                    discomfort,—God punishes us in our mental rebellions by mental wretchedness.
                    This is as it should be. I believe we get everything in this world that we
                    deserve—no more and no less."'
                "'And do you never pray"'—continued El-Râmi slowly, "'for the accomplished
                    perfection of some cherished aim,—the winning of some special joy—"'
                "'Not I"'—said Féraz—"'because I know that if it be good for me I shall have
                    it,—if bad, it will be withheld; all my prayers could not alter the
                    matter."'
                El-Râmi sat silent for a few minutes,—then, rising, he took two or three turns up
                    and down the room, and gradually a smile, half scornful, half sweet, illumined
                    his dark features.
                "'Then, O young and serene philosopher, I will not pray!"' he said, his eyes
                    flashing a  lustrous defiance—"'I have a
                    special aim in view—I mean to grasp a joy!—and whether it be good or bad for me,
                    I will attempt it unassisted."'
                "'If it be good you will succeed;"'—said Féraz with a glance expressive of some
                    fear as well as wonderment. "'If it be bad, you will not. God arranges these
                    things for us."'
                "'God—God—always God!"' cried El-Râmi with some impatience—"'No God shall
                    interfere with me!"' At that moment there came a hesitating knock at the
                    street-door. Féraz went to open it, and admitted a pale grief-stricken man whose
                    eyes were red and heavy with tears and whose voice utterly failed him to reply
                    when El-Râmi exclaimed in astonishment:
                "'Karl! ... Karl! You here? Why, what has happened?"'
                Poor Karl made a heroic struggle to speak,—but his emotion was too strong for
                    him—he remained silent, and two great drops rolled down his cheeks in spite of
                    all his efforts to restrain them.
                "'You are ill;"'—said Féraz kindly, pushing him by gentle force into a chair and
                    fetching  him a glass of wine—"'Here, drink
                    this—it will restore you."'
                Karl put the glass aside tremblingly, and tried to smile his gratitude,—and
                    presently gaining a little control over himself he turned his piteous glances
                    towards El-Râmi whose fine features had become suddenly grave and fixed in
                    thought.
                "'You ... you ... have not heard, sir—"' he stammered.
                El-Râmi raised his hand gently, with a solemn and compassionate gesture.
                "'Peace, my good fellow!—no, I have not heard,—but I can guess;—Kremlin, your
                    master ... is dead."'
                And he was silent for many minutes. Fresh tears trickled from Karl's eyes, and he
                    made a pretence of tasting the wine that Féraz pressed upon him—Féraz, who
                    looked as statuesque and serene as a young Apollo.
                "'You must console yourself;"'—he said cheerfully to Karl,—"'Poor Dr. Kremlin had
                    many troubles and few joys—now he has gone where he has no trouble and all
                    joy."'
                "'Ah!"' sighed Karl dolefully—"'I wish I  could
                    believe that, sir,—I wish I could believe it! But it was the judgment of God
                    upon him—it was indeed!—that is what my poor mother would say,—the judgment of
                    God!"'
                El-Râmi moved from his meditative attitude with a faint sense of irritation. The
                    words he had so lately uttered—"'No God shall interfere with me"'—re-echoed in
                    his mind. And now here was this man,—this servant, weeping and trembling and
                    talking of the "'judgment of God"' as if it were really something divinely
                    directed and inexorable.
                "'What do you mean?"' he asked, endeavouring to suppress the impatience in his
                    voice—"'Of course, I know he must have had some violent end, or else he could
                    not"'—and he repeated the words impressively—"'could not have died,—but was
                    there anything more than usually strange in the manner of his death?"'
                Karl threw up his hands.
                "'More than usually strange! Ach, Gott!"' and, with many interpolations of
                    despair and expressions of horror, he related in broken  accents the whole of the appalling circumstances
                    attending his master's end. In spite of himself a faint shudder ran through
                    El-Râmi's warm blood as he heard—he could almost see before him the horrible
                    spectacle of the old man's mangled form lying crushed under the ponderous Disc
                    his daring skill had designed; and under his breath he murmured—"'Oh Lilith, oh
                    my too-happy Lilith! and yet you tell me there is no death!"' Féraz however, the
                    young and sensitive Féraz, listened to the sad recital with quiet interest,
                    unhorrified, apparently unmoved,—his eyes were bright, his expression
                    placid.
                "'He could not have suffered;"'—he observed at last, when Karl had finished
                    speaking—"'The flash of lightning must have severed body and spirit instantly
                    and without pain. I think it was a good end."'
                Karl looked at the beautiful smiling youth in vague horror. What!—to be flattened
                    out like a board beneath a ponderous weight of fallen stone—to be so disfigured
                    as to be unrecognisable—to have one's mortal remains actually swept up and
                        wiped out (as had been  the case
                    with poor Kremlin), and to be only a mangled mass of flesh difficult of decent
                    burial,—and call that "'a good end"'! Karl shuddered and groaned;—he was not
                    versed in the strange philosophies of young Féraz—he had never been
                    out of his body on an ethereal journey to the star-kingdoms.
                "'It was the judgment of God,"'—he repeated dully—"'Neither more nor less. My
                    poor master studied too hard, and tried to find out too much, and I think he
                    made God angry—"'
                "'My good fellow,"' interrupted El-Râmi rather irritably—"'do not talk of what
                    you do not understand. You have been faithful, hard-working and all the rest of
                    it,—but as for your master trying to find out too much, or God getting angry
                    with him, that is all nonsense. We were placed on this earth to find out as much
                    as we can, about it and about ourselves, and do the best that is possible with
                    our learning,—and the bare idea of a great God condescending to be 'angry' with
                    one out of millions upon millions of units is absurd—"'
                "'But even if an unit rebels against the  Law
                    the Law crushes him"'—interrupted Féraz softly—"'A gnat flies into flame—the
                    flame consumes it—the Law is fulfilled,—and the Law is God's Will."'
                El-Râmi bit his lip vexedly.
                "'Well, be that as it may one must needs find out what the Law is
                    first, before it can either be accepted, or opposed,"' he said.
                Féraz made no answer. He was thinking of the simplicity of certain Laws of Spirit
                    and Matter which were accepted and agreed to by the community of men of whom the
                    monk from Cyprus was the chief master.
                Karl meanwhile stared bewilderedly from Féraz to El-Râmi and from El-Râmi back to
                    Féraz again. Their remarks were totally beyond his comprehension; he never could
                    understand, and never wanted to understand these subtle philosophies.
                "'I came to ask you, sir"'—he said after a pause—"'whether you would not, now you
                    know all, manage to take away that devilish thing that killed my master? I'm
                    afraid to touch it myself, and no one else will—and there it lies up in the
                    ruined tower shining away like a big lamp, and sticking like a burr  to the iron rod I lifted it with. If it's any good to
                    you, I'm sure you'd better have it—and by-the-bye, I found this, sir, in my
                    master's room addressed to you."'
                He held out a sealed envelope, which El-Râmi opened. It contained a folded paper,
                    on which were scratched these lines—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    "'To EL-RâMI ZARâNOS.
                                
                                "'Good friend, in the event of my death, I beg you to accept all
                                    my possessions such as they are, and do me the one favour I ask,
                                    which is this—Destroy the Disc, and let my problem die with
                                    me."'
                            
                        
                    
                
                This paper duly signed, bore the date of two years previously. El-Râmi read it,
                    and handed it to Karl who read it also. They were silent for a few minutes; then
                    El-Râmi crossed the room, and unlocking a small cupboard in the wall, took out a
                    sealed flask full of what looked like red wine.
                "'See here, Karl"'—he said;—"'There is no devil in the great stone you are so
                    afraid of. It is as perishable as anything else in this best of all possible
                    worlds. It is nothing  but a peculiar and rare
                    growth of crystal, which though found in the lowest depths of the earth, has the
                    quality of absorbing light and emitting it. It clings to the iron rod in the way
                    you speak of because it is a magnet,—and iron not only attracts but fastens it.
                    It is impossible for me just now to go to Ilfracombe—besides there is really no
                    necessity for my presence there. I can fully trust you to bring me the papers
                    and few possessions of my poor old friend,—and for the rest, you can destroy the
                    stone yourself—the Disc, as your master called it. All you have to do is simply
                    to pour this liquid on it,—it will pulverize—that is, it will crumble into dust
                    while you watch it, and in ten minutes will be indistinguishable from the fallen
                    mortar of the shattered tower. Do you understand?"'
                Karl's mouth opened a little in wonderment, and he nodded feebly,—he found it
                    quite easy and natural to be afraid of the flask containing a mixture of such
                    potent quality, and he took it from El-Râmi's hand very gingerly and
                    reluctantly. A slight smile crossed El-Râmi's features as he said—
                
                "'No, Karl! there is no danger—no fear of pulverization for you. You
                    can put the phial safely in your pocket,—and though its contents could pulverize
                    a mountain if used in sufficient quantities,—the liquid has no effect on flesh
                    and blood."'
                "'Pulverize a mountain!"' repeated Karl nervously—"'Do you mean that it could
                    turn a mountain into a dust-heap?"'
                "'Or a city—or a fortress—or a rock-bound coast—or anything in the shape of stone
                    that you please"'—replied El-Râmi carelessly—"'but it will not harm human
                    beings."'
                "'Will it not explode, sir?"' and Karl still looked at the flask in doubt.
                "'Oh no—it will do its work with extraordinary silence and no less extraordinary
                    rapidity. Do not be afraid!"'
                Slowly and with evident uneasiness Karl put the terrifying composition into his
                    pocket, deeply impressed by the idea that he had about him stuff, which, if used
                    in sufficient quantity, could "'pulverize a mountain."' It was awful!—worse than
                    dynamite, he considered, his thoughts flying off wantonly to the woes of
                    Irishmen and Russians. El-  Râmi seemed not to
                    notice his embarrassment and went on talking quietly, asking various questions
                    concerning Kremlin's funeral, and giving advice as to the final arrangements
                    which were necessary, till presently he inquired of Karl what he proposed doing
                    with himself in the future.
                "'Oh I shall look out for another situation,"'—he said—"'I shall not go back to
                    Germany. I like to think of the 'Fatherland,' and I can sing the 'Wacht am
                    Rhein' with as much lung as anybody, but I wouldn't care to live there. I think
                    I shall try for a place where there's a lady to serve; you know, sir,
                    gentlemen's ways are apt to be monotonous. Whether they are clever or foolish
                    they always stick to it, whatever it is. A gentleman that races is always
                    racing, and always talking and thinking about racing,—a gentleman that drinks is
                    always on the drink,—a gentleman that coaches is always coaching, and so on; now
                    a lady does vary! One day she's all for flowers, another for
                    pictures, another for china,—sometimes she's mad about music, sometimes about
                    dresses,—or else she takes a fit for study, and gets heaps  of books from the libraries. Now for a man-servant,
                    all that is very agreeable and lively."'
                Féraz laughed at this novel view of domestic service, and Karl, growing a little
                    more cheerful, went on with his explanation—
                "'You see, supposing I get into a lady's service, I shall have so much more to
                    distract me. One afternoon I shall be waiting outside a picture-gallery with her
                    shawls and wraps; another day I shall be running backwards and forwards to
                    Mudie's,—and then there's always the pleasure of never quite knowing what she
                    will do next. And it's excitement I want just now—it really is!"'
                The corners of his good-humoured mouth drooped again despondently, and his
                    thoughts reverted with unpleasant suddenness to the 'pulverizing' liquid in his
                    pocket. What a terrible thing it was to get acquainted with scientists!
                El-Râmi listened to his observations patiently.
                "'Well, Karl,"' he said at last—"'I think I 
                    can promise you a situation such as you would like. There is a very famous and
                    lovely lady in London, known to the reading-world as Irene Vassilius—she writes
                    original books; is sweetly capricious, yet nobly kind-hearted. I will write to
                    her about you, and I have no doubt she will give you a trial."'
                Karl brightened up immensely at this prospect.
                "'Thank you, sir!"' he said fervently—"'You've no idea what a deal of good it
                    will do me to take in the tea to a sweet-looking lady—a properly-served tea, you
                    know, all silver and good china. It will be a sort of tonic to me,—it will
                    indeed, after that terrible place at Ilfracombe. You can tell her I'm a very
                    handy man,—I can do almost anything, from cooking a chop, up to stretching my
                    legs all day in a porter's chair in the hall and reading the latest 'Special.'
                    Anything she wishes whether for show or economy, she couldn't have a better hand
                    at it than me;—will you tell her so, sir?"'
                "'Certainly!"' replied El-Râmi with a smile. 
                    "'I'll tell her you are a domestic Von Moltke, and that under your management
                    her household will be as well ordered as the German army under the great
                    Field-Marshal."'
                After a little more desultory conversation, Karl took his departure, and returned
                    by the afternoon train to Ilfracombe. He was living with one of his
                    fisher-friends, and as it was late when he arrived, he made no attempt to go to
                    the deserted house of his deceased master that night. But early the next morning
                    he hurried there before breakfast, and ascended to the shattered tower,—that
                    awful scene of desolation from whence poor Kremlin's mangled remains had been
                    taken, and where only a dark stain of blood on the floor silently testified of
                    the horror that had there been enacted. The Disc, lying prone, glittered as he
                    approached it, with, as he thought, a fiendish and supernatural light—the early
                    sunlight fell upon its surface, and a thousand prismatic tints and sparkles
                    dazzled his eyes as he drew near and gazed dubiously at it where it still clung
                    to the iron pendulum. What could his master have  used such a strange object for?—what did it mean? And
                    that solemn humming noise which he had used to hear when the nights were
                    still,—had that glistening thing been the cause?—had it any sound? ... Struck by
                    this idea, and filled with a sudden courage, he seized a piece of thick wire,
                    part of the many tangled coils that lay among the ruins of roof and wall, and
                    with it, gave the Disc a smart blow on its edge ... hush! ... hush! ... The wire
                    dropped from his hand, and he stood, almost paralyzed with fear. A deep, solemn,
                    booming sound like a great cathedral bell, rang through the air,—grand, and pure
                    and musical, and ... unearthly!—as might be the clarion stroke of a clock
                    beating out, not the short pulsations of Time, but the vast throbs of Eternity.
                    Round and round, in eddying echoes swept that sweet, sonorous note,—till—growing
                    gradually fainter and fainter, it died entirely away from human hearing, and
                    seemed to pass out and upwards into the gathering sunrays that poured brightly
                    from the East, there to take its place perchance, in that immense diapason of
                    vibrating tone-music  that fills the
                    star-strewn space for ever and ever. It was the last sound struck from the great
                    Star-Dial:—for Karl, terrified at the solemn din, wasted no more time in
                    speculative hesitation, but taking the flask El-Râmi had given him, he opened it
                    tremblingly and poured all its contents on the surface of the crystal. The red
                    liquid ran over the stone like blood, crumbling it as it ran and extinguishing
                    its brilliancy,—eating its substance away as rapidly as vitriol eats away the
                    human skin,—blistering it and withering it visibly before Karl's astonished
                    eyes,—till, as El-Râmi had said, it was hardly distinguishable from the dust and
                    mortar around it. One piece lasted just a little longer than the rest—it curled
                    and writhed like a living thing under the absolutely noiseless and terribly
                    destructive influence of that blood-like liquid that seemed to sink into it as
                    water sinks into a sponge,—Karl watched it, fascinated—till all at once it broke
                    into a sparkle like flame, gleamed, smouldered, leaped high ... and—disappeared.
                    The wondrous Dial with its "'perpetual motion"' and its measured rhythm,  was as if it had never been,—it had vanished
                    as utterly as a destroyed Planet,—and the mighty Problem reflected on its
                    surface remained ... and will most likely still remain ... a mystery
                    unsolved.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIII.
                FOR two or three weeks after he had received the news
                    of Kremlin's death, El-Râmi's mind was somewhat troubled and uneasy. He
                    continued his abstruse studies ardently, yet with less interest than usual,—and
                    he spent hour after hour in Lilith's room, sitting beside the couch on which she
                    reposed, saying nothing, but simply watching her, himself absorbed in thought.
                    Days went by and he never roused her,—never asked her to reply to any question
                    concerning the deep things of time and of eternity with which her aërial spirit
                    seemed conversant. He was more impressed by the suddenness and terror of
                    Kremlin's end than he cared to admit to himself,—and the "'Light-Maps"' and
                    other papers belonging to his deceased old friend,  all of which had now come into his possession, were
                    concise enough in many marvellous particulars, to have the effect of leading him
                    almost imperceptibly to believe that after all there was a God,—an actual Being
                    whose magnificent attributes baffled the highest efforts of the imagination, and
                    who indeed, as the Bible grandly hath it—"'holds the Universe in the hollow of
                    His hand."' And he began to go back to the Bible for information;—for he, like
                    most students versed in Eastern philosophies, knew that all that was ever said
                    or will be said on the mysteries of life and death, is to be found in that Book,
                    which though full of much matter that does not pertain to its actual teaching,
                    remains the one chief epitome of all the wisdom of the world. When it is once
                    remembered that the Deity of Moses and Aaron was their own invented Hobgoblin,
                    used for the purpose of terrifying and keeping the Jews in order, much becomes
                    clear that is otherwise impossible to accept or comprehend. Historians, priests,
                    lawgivers, prophets and poets have all contributed to the Bible,—and when we
                    detach class from class and put each in its proper place, 
                        with-
                        without
                    
                     out confounding them all together in an
                    inextricable jumble as "'Divine inspiration,"' we obtain a better view of the
                    final intention of the whole. El-Râmi considered Moses and Aaron in the light of
                    particularly clever Eastern conjurers,—and not only conjurers, but tacticians
                    and diplomatists, who had just the qualities necessary to rule a barbarous,
                    ignorant, and rebellious people. The thunders of Mount Sinai,—the graving of the
                    commandments on tablets of stone,—the serpent in the wilderness,—the bringing of
                    water out of a rock,—the parting of the sea to let an army march through;—he,
                    El-Râmi, knew how all these things were done, and was perfectly cognisant of the
                    means and appliances used to compass all these seemingly miraculous events.
                "'What a career I could make if I chose!"' he thought—"'What wealth I could
                    amass,—what position! I who know how to quell the wildest waves of the sea,—I
                    who, by means of a few drops of liquid can corrode a name or a device so deeply
                    on stone that centuries shall not efface it—I who can do so many things that
                    would astonish the vulgar  and make them my
                    slaves,—why am I content to live as I do, when I could be greater than a crowned
                    king? Why, because I scorn to trick the ignorant by scientific skill which I
                    have neither the time nor the patience to explain to them—and again—because I
                    want to fathom the Impossible;—I want to prove if indeed there is any
                    Impossible. What can be done and proved, when once it
                        is done and proved, I regard as nothing,—and because I know how
                    to smooth the sea, call down the rain, and evoke phantoms out of the atmosphere,
                    I think such manifestations of power trifling and inadequate. These things are
                    all provable; and the performance of them is attained through a
                    familiar knowledge of our own earth-elements and atmosphere; but to find out the
                    subtle Something that is not of earth, and has not yet been made provable,—that
                    is the aim of my ambition. The Soul! What is it? Of what ethereal composition?
                    of what likeness? of what feeling? of what capacity? This, and this alone is the
                    Supreme Mystery,—when once we understand it, we shall understand God. The
                    preachers waste their time in urging men and 
                    women to save their souls, so long as we remain in total ignorance as to what
                    the Soul IS. We cannot be expected to take any trouble to 'save' or even regard
                    anything so vague and dubious as the Soul under its present conditions. What is
                    visible and provable to our eyes, is that our friends die, and to all intents
                    and purposes, disappear. We never know them as they were any more, ... and, ...
                    what is still more horrible to think of, but is nevertheless true,—our natural
                    tendency is to forget them,—indeed, after three or four years, perhaps less, we
                    should find it difficult, without the aid of a photograph or painted picture, to
                    recall their faces to our memories. And it is curious to think of it, but we
                    really remember their ways, their conversation, and their notions of life better
                    than their actual physiognomies. All this is very strange and very perplexing
                    too,—and it is difficult to imagine the reason for such perpetual tearing down
                    of affections, and such bitter loss and harassment, unless there is some great
                    Intention behind it all,—an Intention of which it is arranged we shall be made
                    duly cognisant. If we are not to be  made cognisant,—if we are not to have a
                    full and perfect Explanation,—then the very fact of Life being lived at all is a
                    mere cruelty,—a senseless jest which lacks all point,—and the very grandeur and
                    immensity of the Universe becomes nothing but the meanest display of gigantic
                    Force remorselessly put forth to overwhelm creatures who have no power to offer
                    resistance to its huge Tyranny. If I could but fathom that Ultimate Purpose of
                    things!—if I could but seize the subtle clue—for I believe it is something very
                    slight and delicate which by its very fineness we have missed,—something which
                    has to do with the Eternal Infinitesimal—that marvellous power which creates
                    animated and regularly organized beings, many thousands of whose bodies laid
                    together would not extend one inch. It is not to the Infinitely
                    Great one must look for the secret of creation, but to the Infinitely
                    Little."'
                So he mused, as he sat by the couch of Lilith and watched her sleeping that
                    enchanted sleep of death-in-life. Old Zaroba, though now perfectly passive and
                    obedient, and fulfilling all his commands with 
                        scru-
                        scrupulous
                    
                     pulous exactitude, was not without her own
                    ideas and hopes as she went about her various duties connected with the care of
                    the beautiful tranced girl. She seldom spoke to Féraz now except on ordinary
                    household matters, and he understood and silently respected her reserve. She
                    would sit in her accustomed corner of Lilith's regal apartment, weaving her
                    thread-work mechanically, but ever and anon lifting her burning eyes to look at
                    El-Râmi's absorbed face and note the varied expressions she saw, or fancied she
                    saw there.
                "'The feverish trouble has begun"'—she muttered to herself on one occasion, as
                    she heard her master sigh deeply—"'The stir in the blood,—the restlessness—the
                    wonder—the desire. And out of heart's pain comes heart's peace;—and out of
                    desire, accomplishment; and shall not the old gods of the world rejoice to see
                    love born again of flames and tears and bitter-sweet as in the ancient days? For
                    there is no love now such as there used to be—the pale Christ has killed it,—and
                    the red rose aglow with colour and scent is now but a dull weed on a tame shore,
                    washed by  the salt sea, but never warmed by
                    the sun. In the days of old, in the nights when Ashtaroth was queen of the
                    silver hours, the youths and maidens knew what it was to love in the very breath
                    of Love!—and the magic of all Nature, the music of the woods and waters, the
                    fire of the stars, the odours of the flowers—all these were in the dance and
                    beat of the young blood, and in the touch of the soft red lips as they met and
                    clung together in kisses sweeter than honey in wine. But now—now the world has
                    grown old and cold, and dreary and joyless,—it is winter among men and the
                    summer is past."'
                So she would murmur to herself in her wild half-poetical jargon of language—her
                    voice never rising above an inarticulate whisper. El-Râmi never heard her or
                    seemed to regard her—he had no eyes except for the drowsing Lilith.
                If he had been asked, at this particular time, why he went to that room day after
                    day, to stare silently at his beautiful "'subject"' and ponder on everything
                    connected with her, he could not have answered  the question. He did not himself know why. Something there was in him, as in
                    every portion of created matter, which remained inexplicable,—something of his
                    own nature which he neither understood nor cared to analyse. He who sought to
                    fathom the last depth of research concerning God and the things divine, would
                    have been compelled to own, had he been cross-examined on the matter, that he
                    found it impossible to fathom himself. The clue to his own Ego was as
                    desperately hard to seize, as curiously subtle and elusive as the clue to the
                    riddle of Creation. He was wont to pride himself on his consistency—yet in his
                    heart of hearts he knew that in many things he was inconsistent,—he justly
                    triumphed in his herculean Will-force,—yet now he was obliged to admit to
                    himself that there was something in the silent placid aspect of Lilith as she
                    lay before him, subservient to his command, that quite unnerved him and
                    scattered his thoughts. It had not used to be so—but now,—it was
                    so. And he dated the change, whether rightly or  wrongly, from the day on which the monk from Cyprus had visited him, and this
                    thought made him restless and irritable, and full of unjust and unreasonable
                    suspicions. For had not the "'Master,"' as he was known in the community to
                    which he belonged, said that he had seen the Soul of Lilith, while
                    he, El-Râmi, had never attained to so beatific an altitude of vision? Then was
                    it not possible that notwithstanding his rectitude and steadfastness of purpose,
                    the "'Master,"' great and Christ-like in self-denial though he was, might
                    influence Lilith in some unforeseen way? Then there was Féraz—Féraz, whose
                    supplications and protestations had won a smile from the tranced girl, and who
                    therefore must assuredly have roused in her some faint pleasure and interest.
                    Such thoughts as these rankled in his mind and gave him no peace—for they
                    conveyed to him the unpleasing idea that Lilith was not all his own as he
                    desired her to be,—others had a share in her thoughts. Could he have nothing
                    entirely to himself? he would demand angrily of his own inner 
                        conscious-
                        consciousness
                    
                     ness—not even this life which he had, as it
                    were, robbed from death? And an idea, which had at first been the merest dim
                    suggestion, now deepened into a passionate resolve—he would make
                    her his own so thoroughly and indissolubly that neither gods nor devils should
                    snatch her from him.
                "'Her life is mine!"' he said—"'And she shall live as long as I please. Her body
                    shall sleep, ... if I still choose, ... or ... it shall wake. But
                    whether awake, or sleeping in the flesh, her spirit shall obey me always—like
                    the satellite of a planet, that disembodied Soul shall be mine forever!"'
                When he spoke thus to himself, he was sitting in his usual contemplative attitude
                    by the couch where Lilith lay;—he rose up suddenly and paced the room, drawing
                    back the velvet portiìre and setting open the door of the ante-chamber as though
                    he craved for fresh air. Music sounded through the house, ... it was Féraz
                    singing. His full pure tenor voice came floating up, bearing with it the words
                    he sang: 
                    
                        
                            "'And neither the angels in heaven above,
                            Nor the demons down under the sea,
                            Can ever dissever my soul from the soul
                            Of the beautiful Annabel Lee!
                        
                        
                            "'For the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes
                            Of the beautiful Annabel Lee,—
                            And the moon never beams without bringing me dreams
                            Of the beautiful Annabel Lee—
                            And so all the night-tide, I lie down by the side
                            Of my darling, my darling, my life and my bride,
                            In her tomb by the sounding sea!"'
                        
                    
                With a shaking hand El-Râmi shut the door more swiftly than he had opened it, and
                    dragged the heavy portiìre across it to deaden the sound of that song!—to keep
                    it out from his ears ... from his heart, ... to stop its passionate vibration
                    from throbbing along his nerves like creeping fire.... 
                        "'And so all the night-tide I lie down by the side
                        Of my darling, my darling, my life and my bride."'
                    
                "'God!—my God!"' he muttered incoherently—"'What ails me? ... Am I going mad that
                    I should dream thus?"'
                He gazed round the room wildly, his hand still clutching the velvet portiìre,—and
                    met  the keenly watchful glance of Zaroba. Her
                    hands were mechanically busy with her thread-work,—but her eyes, black, piercing
                    and brilliant, were fixed on him steadfastly. Something in her look compelled
                    his attention,—something in his compelled hers. They stared across the room at
                    each other, as though a Thought had sprung between them like an armed soldier
                    with drawn sword, demanding from each the pass-word to a mystery. In and out,
                    across and across went the filmy glistening threads in Zaroba's wrinkled hands,
                    but her eyes never moved from El-Râmi's face, and she looked like some weird
                    sorceress weaving a web of destiny.
                "'For you were the days of Ashtaroth!"' she said in a low, monotonous, yet
                    curiously thrilling tone—"'You are born too late, El-Râmi,—the youth of the
                    world has departed and the summer seasons of the heart are known on earth no
                    more. You are born too late—too late!—the Christ claims all,—the body, the
                    blood, the nerve and the spirit,—every muscle of His white limbs on the cross
                         must be atoned for by the dire penance
                    and torture of centuries of men. So that now even love is a thorn in the flesh
                    and its prick must be paid with a price,—these are the hours of woe preceding
                    the end. The blood that runs in your veins, El-Râmi, has sprung from kings and
                    strong rulers of men,—and the pale faint spirits of this dull day have naught to
                    do with its colour and glow. And it rebels, O El-Râmi!—as God liveth, it
                    rebels!—it burns in your heart—the proud, strong heart,—like ruddy wine in a
                    ruby cup; it rebels, El-Râmi!—it rises to passion as rise the waves of the sea
                    to the moon, by a force and an impulse in Nature stronger than yours! Aye,
                    aye!—for you were the days of Ashtaroth"'—and her voice sank into a wailing
                    murmur—"'but now—now—the Christ claims all."'
                He heard her as one may hear incoherencies in a nightmare vision;—only a few
                    weeks ago he would have been angry with her for what he would then have termed
                    her foolish jargon,—but he was not angry now. Why should he be angry? he
                    wondered dully—  had he time to even think of
                    anger while thus unnerved by that keen tremor that quivered through his frame—a
                    tremor he strove in vain to calm? His hand fell from the curtain,—the sweet
                    distracting song of Poe's "'Annabel Lee"' had ceased,—and he advanced into the
                    room again, his heart beating painfully still, his head a little drooped as
                    though with a sense of conscious shame. He moved slowly to where the roses in
                    the Venetian vase exhaled their odours on the air, and breaking one off its
                    branch toyed with it aimlessly, letting its pale pink leaves flutter down one by
                    one on the violet carpet at his feet. Suddenly, as though he had resolved a
                    doubt and made up his mind to something, he turned towards Zaroba who watched
                    him fixedly,—and with a mute signal bade her leave the apartment. She rose
                    instantly, and crossing her hands upon her breast made her customary obeisance
                    and waited,—for he looked at her with a meditative expression which implied that
                    he had not yet completed his instruction. Presently, and with some hesitation,
                    he made her another sign—a sign  which had the
                    effect of awakening a blaze of astonishment in her dark sunken eyes.
                "'No more to-night!"' she repeated aloud—"'It is your will that I return here no
                    more to-night?"'
                He gave a slow but decided gesture of assent,—there was no mistaking it.
                Zaroba paused an instant, and then with a swift noiseless step went to the couch
                    of Lilith and bent yearningly above that exquisite sleeping form.
                "'Star of my heart!"' she muttered—"'Child whose outward fairness I have ever
                    loved, unheedful of the soul within,—may there still be strength enough left in
                    the old gods to bid thee wake!"'
                El-Râmi caught her words, and a faint smile, proud yet bitter, curved his
                    delicate lips.
                "'The old gods or the new—does it matter which?"' he mused vaguely—"'And what is
                    their strength compared to the Will of Man by which the very elements are
                    conquered and made the slaves of his service? 'My Will is God's Will' should be
                    every strong  man's motto. But I—am I
                    strong—or the weakest of the weak? ... and ... shall the Christ claim all?"'
                The soft fall of the velvet portiìre startled him as it dropped behind the
                    retreating figure of Zaroba—she had left the room, and he was alone,—alone with
                    Lilith.
            
            END OF VOL. II.
            BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. G., C. & Co.
            
            
        
    
