
     ----CITATION----
        Cobbe, Frances Power (1822-1904). Vivisection in America. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 105 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-Apr-22).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7190
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.
                
                
                    VIVISECTION IN AMERICA.
                    I. HOW IT IS TAUGHT.
                    II. HOW IT IS PRACTISED.
                
                BY FRANCES POWER COBBE. AND BENJAMIN
                        BRYAN.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    SWAN, SONNENSCHEIN AND CO.
                        PATERNOSTER SQUARE,
                    ALSO OFFICES OF THE VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY
                        20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON;
                    AND THORUGH ALL BOOKSELLERS.
                
                FOURTH EDITION.
                1890.
            
            
                
                PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION
                THAT the subject of Vivisection is one of importance and
                    interest, especially at the present day, in view of its surprising increase
                    during the past ten years, is attested by the fact that the letters to the
                    undersigned herein reproduced are written by representative men and women of
                    universal fame, and in many cases of widely diverse views.
                When persons of the exalted character of Rev. Dr. Bartol; Dr. Berdoe, of England;
                    Dr. Blackwood; United States Senator Blair; Rev. Dr. Phillips Brooks; United
                    States Senator Chandler; Miss Frances Power Cobbe; Miss Fanny Davenport; United
                    States Senator Dawes; Rev. Dr. Morgan Dix; United States Senator Dolph; Mr.
                    William Lloyd Garrison; Col. Robert G. Intersoll; Mme. Ouida; Mme. Adelina
                    Patti; Signor Salvini; Mr. Denman Thompson; Baron von Weber, of Germany; and a
                    large number of others, whose letters it would be impossible to publish for want
                    of space,—people illustrious in their various walks of life, and who are far
                    from being “sentimentalists,”—are willing to place themselves on record as
                    opposed to this frightful practice (and nearly all even unqualifiedly advocating
                    its absolute prohibition), we may well pause to question the utility and
                    propriety of Vivisection.
                The undersigned, who has made a careful study of the subject during more than
                    fifteen years, and who has derived the knowledge he possesses of the matter from
                    the works of the vivisectors themselves, and not from the writings of their opponents,—so that, if he be
                    partisan, his partisanship must be on the side of the former, in whose interest
                    he originally worked until he ascertained the truth—has no hesitation in
                    positively stating that it has not only not been productive of good, but that it
                    has proved a most prolific source of error; and none have been more ready to
                    admit this than many of the great vivisectors. It is said that Majendie, the
                    “Prince of Torturers,” when ill, persistently refused to be attended by any
                    physician who had drawn his conclusions from a source so certain to lead to
                    error as Vivisection.
                It has been abundantly proven by the experience of the Victoria Street Society of
                    England that no possible restrictive law, so-called, will be of the slightest
                    benefit.
                About fourteen years ago, after long and conscientious labor, a number of
                    prominent philanthropists, chief among whom was, I believe, my friend Miss
                    Frances Power Cobbe, succeeded in having a restrictive law enacted by
                    Parliament, which at the time promised much. The results were embodied in a
                    pamphlet published about two years ago, called “Twelve Years' Trial of the
                    Vivisection Act.” It was therein shown not only that the practice of Vivisection
                    had not been diminished, but that it had flourished more than ever
                        before, under the so-called restrictive act, which was valuable to
                    the vivisectors, principally by being an absolute shield and bulwark to all who
                    complied with the provisions which “restricted,” the principal clause of which
                    required them to take out licenses before vivisecting.
                “It was not till nearly four years' experience of parliamentary action on the
                    subject, and of very arduous and painful study, that the program of restriction
                    was finally abandoned by the originators of the movement.” No restrictive act
                    which human ingenuity may devise can afford sufficient protection to animals
                    delivered over to a vivisection. Some opponents of vivisection fondly imagine
                        that they can devise such provisions; but it
                    can be unhesitatingly asserted that no one who understands the purposes and
                    methods of vivisectional research can believe that such provisions are possible.
                    They fall back on the old fallacy of anæsthletics; of this it is sufficient to
                    quote the famous words of Dr. Hoggan: “Anæsthetics” (by the delusions which
                    humane people indulge about them) “have proved the greatest curse to
                    vivisectible animals.”
                There can be absolutely no line drawn by the Legislature between the use of
                    vivisection and its worst abuses; and “whenever the abuses of a practice are
                    very great, and. they cannot be separated from the use, then the use itself must
                    be forbidden,” according to a well-recognized principle of legislation.
                Perhaps the greatest of all incentives to vivisection is the honor (?) and
                    distinction obtained among the vivisectors by the published accounts of their
                    exploits. So long as it is permitted under a restrictive law, so long such
                    publications (with due care in alleging the use of anæsthetics, and compliance
                    with other provisions of law) may safely go on. But if it be forbidden
                    unconditionally, then, and then only, this great incentive to the practice will
                    cease to exist.
                Rather than cause the enactment of a restrictive law in the United States, the
                    best-informed opponents of Vivisection would defer all legislation on the
                    subject until, through continued agitation, by the introduction of bills for its
                    total suppression in the State legislatures and in Congress, and in every other
                    possible way, the time shall arrive when the approach of civilization will make
                    it possible for such bills to become laws; which laws, in a civilized age, there
                    would never be occasion to invoke.
                There is another phase of the subject as yet but little thought of. There
                        is no argument in favor of Vivisection which does not apply more completely,
                        more forcibly, to men than to animals. If the inferior is justly
                    sacrificed to the higher, the legality of the
                    surrender to scientific torture of idiots, criminals, those incurably diseased,
                    and, indeed, all ignorant and brutalized men, including vivisectors, is beyond
                    question. The lives of these are valueless to society, when they are not, as
                    they usually are, noxious to it. At present vivisectors are timid and
                    hypocritical. They sigh that the “rat or two” that they ask in their love for
                    humanity is grudgingly bestowed; but they do not mention so freely the hundreds
                    of experiments in which they keep animals skinned, with nerves laid bare,
                    irritated with electricity and in every possible way, cut open their living
                    bodies, roast, crucify, boil, subject them to experiments causing the most
                    excruciating agony in the most sensitive nerves—and the greater the suffering
                    the greater the “joyful excitement” with which they inflict it. They already say
                    among themselves that no true results can be reached without human
                        subjects.
                “French and Italian physiologists outrival each other in their relations of their
                    wanton and exultant ingenuity in producing unnatural agony and watching its
                    helpless struggles,” says “Ouida,” to whom the writer is indebted for many of
                    the facts herein appearing. “That these men do not immediately give themselves
                    the greater luxury of human victims is due only to their timidity before public
                    opinion. I fail to see any logical refusal that can be made them when they shall
                    demand it.” When Majendie, operating for cataract, plunged his needle to the
                    bottom of his patient's eye, that he might observe the effect of mechanical
                    irritation of the retina upon unexpectant nerves, he showed how greatly the zeal
                    of the vivisector may impair the conscientiousness of the medical adviser, and,
                    above all, the sympathy of man for man. No wonder that vivisectors refuse to be
                    attended, when ill, by vivisectors!
                Liberty in Vivisection, physiologists themselves, in Germany, France, and Italy,
                    say, has produced abuses. In America, says Dr.
                    Leffingwell, it has led to the repetition, for demonstration, of
                    Majendie's extreme barbarities,—barbarities which have been condemned by every
                    leading physiologist of England, in which country a careful study of mortality
                    statistics shows that in no case has Vivisection lessened the fatality of a
                    single disease beyond what it was thirty-five years ago.
                In ten years Prof. Schiff vivisected fourteen thousand (14,000) dogs; it is
                    estimated that of other animals he vivisected seventy thousand (70,000); and ten
                    years ago he was regularly calling for ten dogs a week. At that time, in Lyons,
                    dogs were becoming scarce, and it was proposed to breed them for the purpose of
                    Vivisection.
                Mr. Murdock, a most able veterinary surgeon, in a work published by him, gives an
                    account of a visit to a French laboratory as follows: “Here lay six or seven
                    living horses, fixed by every mechanical device by the head and feet to pillars,
                    while the students were engaged in performing different operations. The sight
                    was truly horrible! The operations had begun early in the forenoon, it now being
                    three o'clock... The poor wretches had ceased being able to make any violent
                    struggles; but the deep heaving of the panting chest, and the horrid look of the
                    eyes, when such were yet left in the head, the head itself being lashed to a
                    pillar, was harrowing beyond endurance.
                “The students had begun their day's work in the least vital parts of the animals.
                    The trunks were there, but they had lost their tails, hoofs, ears, etc.; and the
                    operators were now engaged in the more important operations, such as tying the
                    arteries, trepanning the cranium, cutting down upon the sensitive parts,—as we
                    were informed, on expressing our horror, that they might see the retraction of
                    the muscles by pinching and irritating the various nerves.
                “One animal had a side of the head, including the eye and ear, completely dissected; and other students
                    were laying open and cauterizing the hock of the same animal.”
                Mr. Rogers adds to this:—
                “The number of horses operated on is six, twice a week; sixty-four operations are
                    performed on each horse, and four or five generally die before half
                    the operations are completed; and, as it takes two days to go through the list,
                    the remaining one or two poor animals are left alive, half-mangled, until the
                    next morning, only to be subjected to additional tortures.
                “Among the operations which I remember, were firing in every part where it could
                    or could not be required operation for removing the lateral cartilages, which
                    involves tearing off the quarters of the hoof with pincers; operation for stone,
                    in which a stone is put into the bladder and afterwards removed; operation for
                    hernia nicking, removal of the ears, eyes, etc.
                “The effect of all this on the minds of the students may be inferred fromn the
                        sang froid of a student who was firing a
                    horse's nose, as he said, for pastime.
                “A little bay mare, worn out in the service of man, one of eight, on a certain
                    operation day, having unfortunately retained life throughout the fiendish
                    ordeal, and looking like nothing ever made by the hand of God,—with loins ripped
                    open, skin torn and ploughed by red-hot irons, riddled by setons, tendons
                    severed, hoofless, sightless, and defenceless, was exultingly reared [Baron von
                    Weber says, ‘amid laughter’] on her bleeding feet just when gasping for breath
                    and dying, to show what dexterity had done in completing its work
                    before death took place.”
                Is it surprising that the late Henry Bergh considered that this unfitted “the
                    physician for the intimate and tender relations of friend and adviser,” and made
                    him “hence more to be dreaded than disease itself”?
                
                Below follows a letter similar to those sent to a number of prominent
                    persons:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    OFFICE OF PHILIP G. PEABODY,ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR-AT-LAW,
                                    BOSTON, Mass., March 20, 1890.
                                    TO ...
                                    MY DEAR SIR:
                                
                                Permit me, at the suggestion of my friend, Mr. George T. Angell,
                                    President of the Mass. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
                                    Animals, to respectfully) direct your attention to the subject
                                    matter of this pamphlet, which I take the liberty of forwarding
                                    you, and to beg the favor of its thoughtful perusal at your
                                    hands.
                                If the most cruel and unjustifiable exercise imaginable of the
                                    power possessed by the strong to oppress the weak can move your
                                    heart to pity, the case as herein presented surely cannot fail
                                    to do so, for it faithfully portrays those cruelties, terrible
                                    even beyond mortal conception, to which defenceless animals are
                                    daily subjected in the United States, at the hands of merciless
                                    vivisectors—in other words, animals are dissected alive, usually
                                    without the use of anæsthetics, for the supposed (but illusory)
                                    gain to science.
                                Being about to issue at my own expense (and, I may add, wholly
                                    without the possibility of pecuniary emolument resulting
                                    therefrom, or even reimbursement), a very large edition of the
                                    pamphlet, “Vivisection in America,” I beg of you most earnestly
                                    to forward to me your written endorsement and approval of its
                                    purpose, that I may, with your kind permission, print the same
                                    in connection with words of commendation from other
                                    representative persons, in a preface to the new edition.
                                By so doing you will materially advance the cause of Humanity,
                                    and incur the profound and lasting gratitude of all lovers of
                                    Justice.
                                Permit me, my dear Sir, to subscribe myself,
                                
                                    Yours truly,
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY,
                                    No. 18 Richfield Street.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                In reply to this, the letters printed below (with the exception of the first)
                    have been received in the order in which they are printed:—
                From the late Henry Bergh, founder, and for nearly twenty-two years president, of
                    the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,HEADQUARTERIS OF THE SOCIETY,FOURTH AVE., COR. 22D ST., NEW YORK,
                                    
                                        Sept. 2, 1880.
                                    
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.:
                                
                                Dear Sir,—Your favor is received, in relation to vivisection.
                                        After long and patient investigation of the
                                    subject, and in view of the action of the people of several
                                    European states—recommending the total abolition of
                                    the hideous practice—I last winter asked to be heard by the
                                    Legislature of New York upon the propriety of its entire
                                    prohibition. A memorial prepared by me was presented
                                    simultaneously and read in both houses, and referred to a joint
                                    committee. That committee appointed the assembly chamber for a
                                    hearing; and, having previously made myself master of my
                                    subject, I laid bare the awful features of it.
                                The Herald and other papers next day testified to
                                    the thoroughness of the manner in which it was treated; but the
                                    bill afterwards presented was rejected by Senate and
                                    Assembly.
                                This I expected, as I never contemplated doing more than to
                                    exhibit to the people the barbarities which are going on in
                                    their midst in the insulted name of Science! reserving for a
                                    future occasion more practical and positive results.
                                I have now prepared a printed circular to all our agents
                                    throughout the State, instructing them to obtain as many
                                    signatures as possible, which at the proper time I shall present
                                    to the Legislature, in support of a second application for a law
                                    suppressing the dreadful tortures. I may fail again, but I
                                    propose to fight this question out on this line, if it takes all
                                    the rest of my life!
                                I believe that these scientific cruelties surpass all other
                                    wrongs inflicted on the lower animals—collectively.
                                
                                To perpetuate them it is first necessary to render the heart as
                                    tough and as insensible as India-rubber, which process, I hold,
                                    unfits the physician for the intimate and tender relations of
                                    friend and adviser, and hence more to be dreaded than disease
                                    itself.
                                The article to which you allude, in the Scribner monthly, I saw,
                                    and has been the cause of much public writing in rejoinder, both
                                    on my part, and that of scientific men.
                                It will give me pleasure to confer with you at any time; and with
                                    that view I will state that I am usually at these headquarters
                                    daily, except about the middle of the day, when, between 12 and
                                    2, I am in the habit of going out on business. I will be glad to
                                    see you here, or, if you prefer, will call on you.
                                
                                    With great respect,
                                    HENRY BERGH.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Mme. Adelina Patti:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    PARKER HOUSE, SCHOOL ST., CORNER OF TREMONT, BOSTON,
                                        21 Mars, 1890.
                                    MONSIEUR:
                                
                                Etant très 
                                        occupès
                                        occupés
                                     en ce moment, Madame Patti vous prie de l'excuser si
                                    elle ne répond par directement à votre intéressante lettre, et
                                    me charge de vous de vous dire qu'elle adèhe complètement aux
                                    sentiments de réprobation que vous exprimez sur la vivisection
                                    et en général sur toute cruanté envers les animaux.
                                Veuillez 
                                        agrèer
                                        agréer
                                    , Monsieur, l'expression de sa considération tres
                                    distinguée.
                                
                                    Votre humble serviteur,
                                    A. MORINI, Secretaire.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                [TRANSLATION.]
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    PARKER HOUSE, SCHOOL ST., CORNER OF TREMONT, BOSTON,
                                        21st March, 1890.
                                    SIR:
                                
                                Being very occupied at this moment, Madame Patti prays you to
                                    excuse her if she does not respond directly to your interesting letter, and
                                    charges me to say to you that she adheres completely to the
                                    sentiments of reprobation that you express on vivisection and in
                                    general on all cruelty toward animals.
                                Be good enough to receive, Sir, the expression of her very
                                    distinguishled consideration.
                                
                                    Your humble servant,
                                    A. MORINI, Secretary.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Dr. Blackwood, the eminent physician of Philadelphia:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    246 NORTH 20TH STREET, PHILADELPHIA, March 20,
                                        1890.
                                    MY DEAR SIR:
                                
                                Your letter has just been handed to me by my friend Mrs. White,
                                    and I answer it at once by saying that I endorse all that you
                                    advance concerning the brutalizing effect of vivisection on
                                    those who prosecute it and the witnesses alike. Absolutely
                                    useless as it has been abundantly proved to be to all thinking
                                    and reasoning minds, it needs but the careful investigation of
                                    the medical profession at large to bring its members to the
                                    conclusion reached by the few who have given this important
                                    matter the consideration it deserves. I hope the widespread
                                    dissemination of the pamphlet Vivisection in
                                        America which you propose so generously sending out,
                                    will be the means of starting public investigation, and if it
                                    does this, the time will soon come when vivisectors will be
                                    relegated to the category of professional criminals, and
                                    criminals who deserve the heavy hand of the law to be laid
                                    on—and laid on the more because they should, from the
                                    pretensions they make, be the protectors, instead of the
                                    atrocious torturers, of animals who have not the power to
                                    protect themselves. With much regard, I am,
                                
                                    Very sincerely yours,
                                    Wm. R.D. BLACKWOOD.
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                From Mr. William Lloyd Garrison:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    W. L. GARRISON & Co.,DEALERS IN COMMERCIAL PAPER AND WESTERN MORTGAGES,132 FEDERAL STREET, BOSTON,
                                    
                                        March 21, 1890.
                                    
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq., Boston,
Mass.
                                    MY DEAR SIR:
                                
                                I have read with painful interest the pamphlet on vivisection
                                    which you sent me, and thank you for it.
                                It seems incredible that men who are working in the interests of
                                    mankind can be so cruel and insensible to the sufferings of dumb
                                    animals. The contention of the physicians that vivisection has
                                    yielded immensely to the knowledge of the human system is by no
                                    means made clear, and their claims for alleviating suffering in
                                    consequence are to be taken with many grains of allowance. If
                                    the verdict of the doctors themselves were unanimous, their case
                                    would be a strong one, but with such eminent testimony as that
                                    of Dr. Tait against the practice, the question is an open
                                    one.
                                But even though it were demonstrated that medical science had
                                    advanced and human suffering been alleviated by the torture of
                                    animals, the moral feeling of mankind has yet to be changed
                                    before it can accept relief at such a cost. Every feeling of
                                    humanity revolts at the experiments as described by the medical
                                    men who practise vivisection, and one rises from a perusal of
                                    their records with a doubt as to which is the human and which is
                                    the brute animal.
                                I hope your pamphlet will have a wide circulation and an equally
                                    wide perusal.
                                
                                    Very sincerely yours,
                                    WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Rev. Phillips Brooks:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    233 CLARENDON ST., BOSTON, March 22, 1890.
                                    MY DEAR SIR:
                                
                                I am heartily in sympathy with every wise effort to limit the
                                    license of vivisection and to lessen the suffering which it involves, and I sincerely
                                    hope that your pamphlet may make valuable contribution to these
                                    ends.
                                
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    PHILLIPS BROOKS.
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Senator Dawes, of Massachusetts.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    UNITED STATES SENATE,WASHINGTON, D.C., 24th March, 1890.
                                    DEAR SIR:
                                
                                I have yours of the 20th inst., and also your pamphlet, which I
                                    have read with great interest and instruction. I agree with you
                                    essentially in the suggestions made.
                                
                                    Yours truly,
                                     H.L. DAWES.
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Signor Tommaso Salvini:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    BOSTON, March 25th, 1890.
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.:
                                
                                Dear Sir,—The spirit that animates the Society for the Prevention
                                    of Cruelty to Animals, of which you are a worthy representative,
                                    can only be the inspiration of a kindly heart, and like you I
                                    deplore the fact that these creatures, deprived of speech, but
                                    not of feeling and affection, are often sacrificed for
                                    anatomical experiments and for other researches of modern
                                    science. Those who employ such heartless measures say that these
                                    are necessary for the good of humanity, but I repeat instead
                                    that they are expedients of a barbarous ambition. Pure science
                                    should be of general benefit, hurtful to no one, and in my
                                    opinion man should be prevented from the employment of such
                                    examples, humiliating to the entire human race.
                                
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    TOMMASO SALVINI.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                From Senator Blair, of New Hampshire:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        UNITED STATES SENATE,WASHINGTON, D.C.,
                                        March 29, 1890.
                                    
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.,Attorney and Councellor-at-Law, Boston,
Mass.:
                                
                                Dear Sir,—I am in receipt of your pamphlet treating of the
                                    barbarities and fiendish cruelties which our Christian
                                    civilization practises or permits upon dumb animals. It seems to
                                    me that it would be far better that the law should select
                                    certain men to die under the knife in the interests of science
                                    for humanity in general, just as others are designated for death
                                    in battle for the common defence, than that this wholesale and
                                    unrestrained indulgence in what is called “vivisection” should
                                    be allowed to go on and to increase its needless extravagance of
                                    torture.
                                Your work is in behalf of men as well as of the dumb creatures of
                                    God, for no human being can practise these torments habitually
                                    without developing the latent savagery of his own nature. No
                                    zeal for science can justify it. It would be much better to
                                    dissect men alive occasionally for the general welfare, because
                                    the attendant phenomena and demonstrations of thle
                                        victims, being of our own particular form of animal, would
                                        be far more valuable than the result of our observation upon
                                        the physical structure illustrated in the agonies unto death
                                        of the helpless creatures around us.
                                I hope that your pamphlet may have universal circulation. It will
                                    make us a better people.
                                
                                    Truly yours,
                                    HENRY W. BLAIR.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Senator Chandler, of New Hampshire:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        UNITED STATES SENATE,WASHINGTON, D.C.,
                                        March 31, 1890.
                                    
                                    MY DEAR SIR:
                                
                                Yours of March 28th, with your pamphlet, is at hand. You are
                                    doing a noble work with conciseness, decision, and courage.
                                
                                I cannot believe it possible that the interests of medical
                                    science require the vivisection of animals.
                                
                                    Yours truly,
                                    WM. E. CHANDLER.
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Rev. Dr. Morgan Dix, Rector of Trinity Parish, New York:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    NEW YORK, April 1st, 1890.
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.,Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law,18 Richfield Street, Boston
                                
                                My dear Sir,—I acknowledge receipt of your communication of the
                                    20th ulto., together with a copy of your pamplet entitled
                                        Vivisection in America. You request me to
                                    read that pamphlet. I respectfully decline to do so, as the
                                    subject is too horrible for consideration. I have read accounts
                                    of the tortures inflicted in the name of Science on the
                                    creatures committed to our care or placed in our power by a
                                    Divine Providence, and they have made me sick at heart for weeks
                                    together. I shall never peruse these frightful statistics again.
                                    I have also read what arguments are made in extenuation or
                                    recommendation of the practice, and their only effect has been
                                    to strengthen my conviction that man is capable of becoming the
                                    most barbarous and most merciless of all agents.
                                I gladly join with any one who protests against the abuse of our
                                    power over confiding and intelligent animals.
                                The lower creation is a deep mystery. There are in it intelligent
                                    and sensitive beings with virtues which man may well imitate,
                                    and with qualities which inspire affection. God has given us
                                    dominion over them and powers which we ought not to abuse; and
                                    when I go into His presence I wish to be able to tell Him that I
                                    abhor, detest, and protest against the tortures of these poor
                                    creatures under the pretence of thereby benefiting our own
                                    lordly race.
                                You may make what use you please of this letter.
                                I remain, in conclusion,
                                
                                    Respectfully yours,
                                    MORGAN DIX.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                From Mr. Denman Thompson:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    NEW YORK, April 1, 1890.
                                    MY DEAR MR. PEABODY:
                                
                                I heartily endorse the sentiments against the horrors of
                                    vivisection expressed in the pamphlet on Vivisection in
                                        America, which you were kind enough to send me.
                                    Cruelty to dumb animals is wrong in itself, and the most
                                    elaborate scientific plea cannot justify it. I have always been
                                    an advocate of scientific progress, but I cannot bring myself to
                                    believe in the utility of torturing—in the name of medical
                                    science—animals who cannot protest for themselves.
                                
                                    Very truly,
                                    DENMAN THOMPSON.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Senator Dolph, of Oregon:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        UNITED STATES SENATE,WASHINGTON, D.C.,
                                        April 3d, 1890.
                                    
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.,18 Richfield St., Boston, Mass.
                                
                                Dear Sir,—I am just in receipt of your favor of the 31st ult.
                                Also a copy of your pamphlet entitled Vivisection in
                                        America, which I have read with interest.
                                I heartily approve of its purposes, and sympathize with you in
                                    the good work you have undertaken.
                                
                                    Yours truly,
                                    J.N. DOLPH.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Rev. Dr. C.A. Bartol, of Boston:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    HOTEL DEL CORONADO, E.S. BABCOCK, Jr., Manager,
                                        CORONADO, CALIF., 1st April, 1890.
                                    DEAR FRIEND:
                                
                                I should only repeat your views in expressing my own. Animals,
                                    being our relations, have rights which we are bound to
                                    respect.
                                
                                    God speed your cause,
                                    C.A. BARTOL.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                From Dr. Edward Berdoe, of England:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    TYNEMOUTH HOUSE, VICTORIA PARK GATE, N.E., LONDON, 1st
                                        April 1890.
                                    MY DEAR SIR:
                                
                                I have carefully read the pamphlet which you were good enough to
                                    send me, entitled Vivisection in America. There
                                    is not a statement therein which I cannot heartily endorse. So
                                    far from there being the slightest exaggeration, I can testify
                                    from my own knowledge that the atrocious cruelties which you
                                    condemn are daily and hourly performed in the physiological
                                    laboratories of the world. I do not speak rashly, for I have
                                    labored for the past ten years in combating the practices of
                                    vivisection in England, and have made it my business to
                                    ascertain precisely what is being carried on in medical schools
                                    and universities, in the name of the healing art, in America. It
                                    seems to me that you can hardly be engaged in a nobler work than
                                    in protesting against this great wrong. It strikes a blow at our
                                    common humanity and if tolerated by society will inevitably be
                                    fatal to its highest interests.
                                I am, my dear Sir,
                                Yours very faithfully,
                                    EDWARD BERDOE, Member of the Royal College of
                                    Surgeons of England; Licentiate of the Royal College of
                                    Edinburgh; Member of the British Medical Association, etc.
                                    etc.
                            
                        
                    
                
                Extracts from a personal letter from Miss Frances Power Cobbe, author of “The
                    Scientific Spirit of the Age,” “The Hopes of the Human Race,” “The Peak in
                    Darien,” “Alone to the Alone,” “False Beasts and True,” “The Duties of
                    Woman:”—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    HENGWRT, DOLGELLY, N. WALES, April 6.
                                    MY DEAR MR. PEABODY:
                                
                                I have received the copy of Vivisection in America
                                    which you have kindly sent me, and am delighted with the handsome reprint. Your
                                    introductory letter also is excellent and gives the paper a good
                                    American imprimatur. I owe you
                                    hearty and grateful thanks for your powerful co-operation in
                                    this hard fight.
                                You will probably have seen the long report in the
                                        Worcester Sunday Telegram, of March 9, of the
                                    vivisection going on upon a frightful scale at Clark University.
                                    The fact to which I wish specially to direct your attention, if
                                    by chance you have not seen the paper, is that the poor,
                                    wretched dogs to be vivisected are regularly sent to this
                                    university from Boston. It seems to me possible
                                    that you may be able in Boston to look into this abominable
                                    trade.
                                
                                    Ever yours most truly,
                                    FRANCES POWER COBBE.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From “Ouida:”—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    4th April, 1890.
                                    MR. PHILIP G. PEABODY:
                                
                                Dear Sir,—You cannot feel more deeply than I do the horrors of
                                    the sacrifices made to so-called science. Were the public
                                    everywhere not so apathetic, so selfish, and so ignorant as is
                                    unhappily the bulk of every nation, vivisection and all its
                                    congeners would be made impossible. The frightful experiments
                                    frequently lasting for months on the same creature, are wholly
                                    unknown to the chief part of the world, whilst most of those to
                                    whom they are known are afraid to seem “behind the age” if they
                                    oppose them, or turn their eyes away from what pains and
                                    distresses them, stupidly accepting the bland lies of
                                    physiologists. Physiology has become a trade—a lucrative
                                    pursuit. So long as the nations provide laboratories and
                                    salaries, so long will needy men climb by it into comfortable
                                    college chairs. The immense difficulty in our way is, 1st, the
                                    egotism of human nature, delighted to hope that disease may be
                                    banished and death deferred by some discovery; 2d, the dense
                                    apathy of it before all pain not inflicted upon itself. If you
                                    have in your city the back volumes of the Gentlemen's
                                        Magazine you will find an article of mine on
                                    vivisection. I forget the year, but think it was '82 or '83.
                                    Pray make any use of this
                                    letter that you choose, and attach my name to any declaration
                                    against scientific torture.
                                Please address only, “Mme. Ouida, Florence.”
                                
                                    Obediently yours,
                                    OUIDA.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Baron von Weber, of Germany, Knight of the Royal Order of Saxony, etc.;
                    President of the Great German League against Scientific Cruelty; Honorary
                    Corresponding Member of the Society for the Protection of Animals from
                    Vivisection:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    DRESDEN, 13th April, 1890.
                                    DEAR SIR:
                                
                                I have read with great interest the valuable book you sent me,
                                    and I wish that you may be able to give it a large circulation
                                    between the Atlantic and the Pacific then it may be hoped that
                                    it shall awake the consciences of many honest people in the
                                    United States, and that numerous friends of true humanity will
                                    unite to put a stop to the abominable cruelties in the
                                    vivisectionist laboratories.
                                I remain, dear Sir,
                                
                                    Faithfully yours,
                                    ERNST VON WEBER.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Miss Fanny Davenport:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    BRUNSWICK, BOSTON.
                                    TO PHILIP G. PEABODY.
                                
                                My dear Sir,—Much as I wish to write at length on the subject of
                                    your pamphlet, I regret I have not the time to spare. However,
                                    these few words I will write, hoping they may in a small degree
                                    express the feelings I have upon the matter. Cruelty, to my
                                    mind, is as black a sin as any other sin so named, and that
                                    human creatures can inflict upon the helpless (those creatures
                                    sent by God for our use, our comfort, and our needs) such
                                    intentional pain, seems almost the capability of a brute. To me
                                    those who practise vivisection are no higher in their natures
                                    than the brute whom they make to suffer—a poor creature
                                        without the means of
                                    resenting, that cannot speak and cry for mercy, but whose
                                    sufferings must be as great as any mortal's. In my humble
                                    opinion, such practice should be a punishable offence, and I for
                                    one am with “The Society” heart and soul in its object, and if I
                                    can in any way further the good work, command me.
                                
                                    Faithfully yours,
                                    FANNY DAVENPORT.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                From Col. Robert G. Ingersoll:—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        LAW OFFICE,ROBERT G. INGERSOLL, 45 WALL STREET,NEW YORK,
                                        May 27, 1890.
                                    
                                    PHILIP G. PEABODY, Esq.:Boston, Mass.
                                
                                My dear Friend,—Vivisection is the Inquisition—the Hell—of
                                    Science. All the cruelty which the human—or rather the
                                    inhuman—heart is capable of inflicting, is in this one word.
                                    Below this there is no depth. This word lies like a coiled
                                    serpent at the bottom of the abyss.
                                We can excuse, in part, the crimes of passion. We take into
                                    consideration the fact that man is liable to be caught by the
                                    whirlwind, and that from a brain on fire the soul rushes to a
                                    crime. But what excuse can ingenuity form for a man who
                                    deliberately—with an unaccelerated pulse with the calmness of
                                    John Calvin at the murder of Servetus—seeks, with curious and
                                    cunning knives, in the living, quivering flesh of a dog, for all
                                    the throbbing nerves of pain? The wretches who commit these
                                    infamous crimes pretend that they are working for the good of
                                    man that they are actuated by philanthropy; and that their pity
                                    for the sufferings of the human race drives out all pity for the
                                    animals they slowly torture to death. But those who are
                                    incapable of pitying animals are, as a matter of fact, incapable
                                    of pitying men. A physician who would cut a living rabbit in
                                    pieces—laying bare the nerves, denuding them with knives,
                                    pulling them out with forceps—would not hesitate to try
                                    experiments with men and women for the gratification of his
                                    curiosity.
                                
                                To settle some theory, he would trifle with the life of any
                                    patient in his power. By the same reasoning he will justify the
                                    vivisection of animals and patients. He will say that it is
                                    better that a few animals should suffer than that one human
                                    being should die; and that it is far better that one patient
                                    should die, if through the sacrifice of that one, several may be
                                    saved.
                                Brain without heart is far more dangerous than heart without
                                    brain.
                                Have these scientific assassins discovered anything of value?
                                    They may have settled some disputes as to the action of some
                                    organ, but have they added to the useful knowledge of the
                                    race?
                                It is not necessary for a man to be a specialist in order to have
                                    and express his opinion as to the right or wrong of vivisection.
                                    It is not necessary to be a scientist or a naturalist to detest
                                    cruelty and to love mercy. Above all the discoveries of the
                                    thinkers, above all the inventions of the ingenious, above all
                                    the victories won on fields of intellectual conflict, rise human
                                    sympathy and a sense of justice.
                                I know that good for the human race can never be accomplished by
                                    torture. I also know that all that has been ascertained by
                                    vivisection could have been done by the dissection of the dead,
                                    or at least of animals completely and perfectly under the
                                    merciful influence of ether. I know that all the torture has
                                    been useless. All the agony inflicted has simply hardened the
                                    hearts of the criminals, without enlightening their minds.
                                It may be that the human race might be physically improved if all
                                    the sickly and deformed babes were killed, and if all the
                                    paupers, liars, drunkards, thieves, villains, and
                                    vivisectionists were murdered. All this might, in a few ages,
                                    result in the production of a generation of physically perfect
                                    men and women; but what would such beings be worth,—men and
                                    women healthy and heartless, muscular and cruel—that is to say,
                                    intelligent wild beasts?
                                Never can I be the friend of one who vivisects his
                                    fellow-creatures. I do not wish to touch his hand.
                                When the angel of pity is driven from the heart; when the fountain of tears is dry,—the
                                    soul becomes a serpent crawling in the dust of a desert.
                                Thanking you for the good you are doing, and wishing you the
                                    greatest success, I remain,
                                
                                    Yours always,
                                    R.G. INGERSOLL.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Courteous replies have also been received from United States Senator Plumb,
                        Mr. Charles Dudley Warner, Mr. Herbert Spencer (of England), Mr. George
                        Kennan, United States Senator Allison, Rev. O.B. Frothingham, Mr. James
                        Parton, Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, Ex-Attorney-General and Judge Devens, Rev.
                        Andrew P. Peabody, Hon. Henry Cabot Lodge, United States Senator Ingalls,
                        Gen. and Ex-Gov. Benjamin F. Butler, and a large number of others, of which
                        those printed above were all that the undersigned considered advisable to
                        publish with this edition of the pamphlet. Most of those not printed express
                        the warmest sympathy for the Anti-Vivisection cause, but the writers of some
                        of them found it impossible, through extreme preoccupation of time, or from
                        other causes, to comply with the request for written expressions of their
                        sentiments for publication.
                    
                        PHILIP G. PEABODY.
                    
                
                
                    It is intended that all profits accruing from the sale of this work shall be
                        donated to one of the Anti-Vivisection societies, or divided between a
                        number of them.
                    It is requested that all persons, in any part of the United States, who are
                        willing to give either labor, money, or the influence of their names toward
                        the absolute prohibition of Vivisection, will send their names
                        and addresses to the undersigned.
                    
                        PHILIP G. PEABODY,
                        BOSTON, MASS.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
            VIVISECTION IN AMERICA.

                THAT Vivisection on a considerable scale is practised in the
                    United States is a fact which has been denied by men otherwise well and widely
                    informed respecting American affairs. Great cruelties, it has been generally
                    confessed, have been committed on the continent of Europe, notably in Germany,
                    France, and Italy; but English-speaking nations have been credited with a degree
                    of humane feeling extending even to this method of research,—“naturally liable,”
                    as the Royal Commission reported, “to great abuse;”—and it is commonly believed
                    that neither in Great Britain nor the United States has anything approaching to
                    the recklessness of continental Vivisection been exhibited.
                For the truth, as regards England, of this nationally-flattering view of the
                    matter, the reader is referred to Dr. Berdoe's recent pamphlet, Twelve
                        Years' Trial of the Vivisection Act.* It will be found therein proved that “under all the so-called
                    restrictions of the present Act, the most terrible cruelties are daily and
                    hourly practised (in England); and that iniquities only equalled by those Twelve Years'
                            Trial of the Vivisection Act. By M.R.C.S. London and New York:
                        Swan, Sonnenschein. Price 3d. which
                    are admitted to be horrible when done abroad, are regularly performed in our
                    great Universities and Schools of Medicine.”
                As regards America, we propose in the following pages to marshal for the Reader's
                    judgment extracts from the writings of American physiologists, illustrating the
                    actual character and extent of Vivisection in the United States during the
                    present decade. We shall divide our extracts into,
                1st, those concerned with the Teaching of Vivisection to students;
                2nd, those recording the Practice of American physiologists.
            
            
                
                I.—TEACHING VIVISECTION.
                DR. AUSTIN FLINT was one of the most eminent Professors of
                    Physiology in America, and was welcomed as such in London at the International
                    Medical Congress of 1881. He was Professor of Physiology and Microscopy at the
                    Bellevue Medical College, New York, and at Long Island College Hospital. In his
                    Preface to the Third Edition of his great work, the Physiology of
                        Man,* he was able to
                    congratulate himself on the success it had achieved. His aim had been to write
                    “a book which would meet the wants of practitioners and students of Medicine;”
                    and he says: “My expectations in this regard have been more than fulfilled. My
                    work has been very favorably received by the profession: it is extensively used
                    as a text-book, and two large impressions of the first edition, and a second
                    edition published in 1874, have been exhausted.”
                We may thus safely proceed to scan Professor Flint's observations and avowals as
                    having all been most “favorably received” by the medical profession in
                    America;—received, it must be noted, with so complete an absence of reserve on
                    account of the severity of the experiments it * Five vols. New York. Appleton & Co.
                        This book has been subsequently condensed into one volume. details and recommends, that it has been “extensively
                    used as a text-book” for the instruction of the rising generation of American
                    doctors.
                What, then, were Dr. Austin Flint's views and practice respecting training in
                    Vivisection?
                In the preface to the earlier editions of his Physiology of Man,
                    p. 8, he says:—
                “For some years the author has been in the habit of employing vivisection in
                    public teachings.” Again, in the same work, Vol. II., p. 300, in speaking of a
                    frightful experiment in which an animal was caused to vomit from a pig's
                    bladder, which had been substituted for a stomach, he says, “These experiments
                    were made simply for demonstrations.”
                In his Report to the Medical Congress, 1881, he refers to several other
                    experiments used for demonstration: “We have long been in the habit in class
                    demonstrations of removing the optic lobe on one side from a pigeon,”
                    &c., &c.
                With these views of the propriety of demonstrations to students, it is not
                    surprising that Dr. Flint's Text-book should bristle at every page with records
                    of vivisections, often of the most agonizing kind, performed by dead and living
                    physiologists all over the world, and cited as “interesting” or instructive, but
                    never, (as may be imagined,) with a word of condemnation or of caution as to
                    their repetition. Indeed, as to repeating experiments perpetually, he himself
                    avows in the above quoted Report: “Our own experiments, which
                    have been very numerous during the last fifteen years, are simply repetitions of
                    Flourens, and the results have been the same without exception.”
                Accordingly we find in the Physiology of Man* such * One vol. New York. Appleton. 3rd Ed.,
                        1884. experiments as the following.
                    Chauveau's experiments (most interesting as usual!) and Faivre's on
                    the hearts of monkeys, p. 45. Marey's experiment of thrusting a sound into the
                    heart of a horse through the jugular vein, p. 44. Rouanet's and the British
                    Commission's experiments on the sounds of the heart, wherein “the semi-lunar
                    valves were caught up by curved hooks introduced through the vessels of an ass,”
                    p. 47. Legallois', Brachliet's and Bernard's experiments on the iniluence of the
                    nervous system on the heart, p. 58-9. Erichsen's and Schliff's demonstration of
                    causes of arrest of action of the heart, p. 62. Hale's and Bernard's experiments
                    in blood pressure on the carotid of the horse, p. 78. Cyon and Ludwig on the
                    results of division of the splanclnic nerves of rabbits, p. 79. Majendie, p.
                    101, and His, Robin, Hertz, and others, p. 107, contribute other observations on
                    the circulation. We are told that the epiglottis has been frequently removed
                    from the lower animals by Majendie and his followers, p. 117 ; but, on this
                    point, Flint thinks (wonderful to relate!) that it “becomes a question whether
                    the experiment (the ablation of the epiglottis) can be absolutely applied to the
                    human subject.” The chapter on Respiration is a series of such citations of
                    experimenits by Majendie, Bernard, Allen, Pepys, Regnault, Reinet, Legallois,
                    &c. The same may be said of Chapter VI. on Alimentation (where
                    starvation of animals comes into play) and of that on Digestion, where, however,
                    we light on the candid admission that “Taking only into consideration
                    experiments upon the inferior animals, little definite information has been
                    obtained concerning the composition and properties of the intestinal juice,” p.
                    266. A dog with a pancreatic fistula, artificially induced, is shown at p. 271.
                    Another dog, with biliary fistula, artificially induced, and muzzled to prevent
                    him licking himself, is shown at p. 282, and it is observed that he “is
                    considerably emaciated.” On the
                    NOTE.—The above figure shows the head of a dead rabbit, of
                        which the brain and top of the skull is removed to show the position of the
                        nerves, and the instrument is exhibited piercing the head (as in life), and
                        reaching the nerves (the trigeminus) on which it is desired to operate. The
                        description given by Cyon of the method of this operation
                            (Methodik, p. 512) is as follows: “The rabbit is firmly
                        fastened to the ordinary vivisecting table by means of Czermak's holder.
                        Then the rabbit's head is held by the left hand, so that the thumb of that
                        hand rests on the condyle of the lower jaw. This is used as point d'appui for thile insertion of the
                        knife..... To reach the hollow of the temple the instrument must be guided
                        forward and upward, thus avoiding the hard portion of the temporal bone and
                        leading the knife directly into the cranial cavity..... The trigeminus then
                        comes under the knife. Now holding the head of the animal very firmly, the
                        blade of the knife is directed backwards and downwards and pressed hard in
                        this direction against the base of the skull. The nerve is then generally
                        cut behind the Gasserian ganglion, which is announced by a violent cry of
                        agony (einen heftigen Schmerzensschrei) of
                        the animal.” subject of “Absorption”
                    the experiments of Prevost and Dumas (p. 317), and Bernard (p. 318) are quoted.
                    Also those of Lebkúchner and Majendie (p. 321), of Dutrochet (pp. 321-2), of
                    Matteucci, Longet, Milne-Edwards, Von Becker (pp. 326-7), and many others. And
                    so on throughout; experiments on the kidneys, the liver, the spleen, and other
                    organs being constantly cited as the basis or support of knowledge on the
                    subject thereof. And similarly with the nervous and cerebral systems.
                At page 640 is reproduced the figure from Cyon's Atlas to
                    illustrate, on the head of a rabbit, the operation for division of the fifth
                    nerve—an experiment which Cyon states always causes a cry of agony from the
                    unfortunate animal. On the page preceding (639) is shown the “instrument for
                    dividing the fifth nerve” (after Bernard). At page 727 is shown the form of a
                    “Stylet for breaking up the medulla oblongata” (after Bernard).
                In short, the whole of Professor Flint's treatise may be taken as a rehearsal and
                    description of the worst vivisections of
                    French, German, and Italian physiologists,—all detailed for the instruction, and
                    (we can scarcely question, seeing that not a breath of blame attaches to any of
                    them), for the emulation of American youth.
                But all these examples quoted by Professor Flint, evil as they are, appear to be
                    outdone by experiments which he himself performed as demonstrations to his
                    students. The following account is extracted from the well-known article by Dr.
                    Albert Leffingwell in Lippincott's Magazine, August, 1884:—
                “There is a certain experiment, one of the most excruciating which can be
                    performed, vwhich consists in exposing the spinal cord of the dog for the
                    purpose of demonstrating the function of the spinal nerves..... It is not the
                    cutting operation which forms its chief peculiarity or to which special
                    objection would be made. At present all this preliminary process is generally
                    performed under anæsthetics. It is an hour or two later, when the animal has
                    partly recovered from the severe shock of the operation, that the wound is
                    re-opened and the experiment begins. It was during a class demonstration of this
                    kind by Majendie, before the introduction of ether, that the circumstance
                    occurred which one hesitates to think possible in a person retaining a single
                    spark of humanity or pity. ‘I recall to mind,’ says Dr. Latour, who was present
                    at the time, ‘a poor dog, the roots of whose vertebral nerves Majendie desired
                    to lay bare to demonstrate Bell's theory, which he claimed as his own. The dog,
                    mutilated and bleeding, twice escaped from under the implacable knife, and threw
                    its front paws around Majendie's heel, licking as if to soften his murderer and
                    ask for pity. I confess I was unable to endure that heart-rending
                    spectacle.’”
                [After quoting the evidence of Ferrier, Pavy, Gull, and Michael Foster before the
                    English Royal Commission of 1875—to prove that English students would “rebel” at
                        the sight of such an experiment, and that
                    no leading man in Germany would exhibit anything of the kind,—Dr. Leffingwell
                    continues with reference to America]: (Italics ours.)
                “Now mark the contrast. This experiment—which we are told passes even the
                    callousness of Germany to repeat; which every leading champion of vivisection in
                    Great Britain reprobates for medical teaching; which some of them shrink even
                    from seeing, themselves, from horror at the tortures necessarily inflicted;
                    which the most ruthless among them dare not exhibit to the young
                    men of England,—THIS experiment has been performed publicly again and
                        again in American medical colleges, without exciting, so far as we
                    know, even a whisper of protest or the faintest murmur of remonstrance! The
                    proof is to be found in the published statements of the experimenter himself. In
                    his Text-book of Physiology, Professor Flint says, ‘Majendie ....
                    showed very satisfactorily that the posterior roots (of the spinal cord) were
                    exclusively sensory, and this fact has been confirmed by more recent
                    observations upon the higher classes of animals. We have ourselves
                        frequently exposed and irritated the roots of the nerves in
                    dogs, in pubic demonstrations in experiments on the recurrent
                    sensibility, .... and in another series of observations.’”
                “This is the experience of a single professional teacher; but it is improbable
                    that this experiment has been shown only to the students of a single medical
                    college in the United States; it has doubtless been repeated again and again in
                    different colleges throughout the country. If Englishmen are, then, so extremely
                    sensitive as Ferrier, Gull, and Burdon-Sanderson would have us believe, we must
                    necessarily conclude that the sentiment of compassion is far greater in Britain
                    than in America. Have we drifted backward in humanity? Have American students
                    learned to witness, without protest, tortures at the sight of which English students would rebel?”—Lippincott's
                        Magazine, August, 1884, p. 130.)
                In the face of these facts, and of the position held by Dr. Austin Flint as the
                    author of the accepted American Text-Book of Physiological instruction, we are
                    driven to the mournful conclusion that, as regards the Teaching of
                    Vivisection, America stands even lower than England lower, possibly, than
                    Germany itself.
            
            
                
                II.--PRACTICE.
                We now turn to the Practice of Vivisection during the last decade in America; and
                    to study this we shall cite the published Reports of their experiments by the
                    Vivisectors themselves, as they stand in some of the leading scientific
                    periodicals of the United States and in those of England to which American
                    Physiologists have been contributors.
                Here is a series of examples from the Journal of Physiology.*
                Vol. I., pp. 193-5, 1879-80, Dr. Isaac Ott, Lecturer on Experimental Physiology,
                    University of Pennsylvania, and G.B. Woodfield, Student of medicine, published a
                    paper on “Sweat Centres; the Effect of Muscarin and Atropin on Them.” The
                    article commences thus:—
                “The fact that, besides sensory and motor nerves, secretory nerves exist, was
                    established by the brilliant experiments of Ludwig on the submaxillary
                    gland,—although the theory of excito-secretory function was put forth by
                    Campbell, of Georgia. Goltz was the first to notice that after irritation of a
                    nerve the sweat secretion was increased. * The Journal of Physiology is
                        published at Cambridge (England), and its Editor-in-chief is Dr. Michael
                        Foster, Professor of Physiology in the University, and Secretary of the
                        Royal Society, London, who may be considered the head centre of Vivisection
                        in England. There are associated with Professor Foster in the Editorship,
                        Professor H.P. Bowditch, of Boston; Professor H. Newell Martin, of
                        Baltimore; Professor H.C. Wood, of Philadelphia. The Journal
                        may therefore be deemed to be the medium of intercommunication between
                        England and America among physiologists. Luchsinger, of Zurich, and Miss Kendall, of Boston,
                    found that after irritation of the sciatic or bronchial nerves in the dog or
                    cat, an increased secretion of sweat took place, and that it ensued after
                    ligature of the aorta, and during the first fifteen minutes after amputation of
                    an extremity,”* &c.
                The authors go on to state:—
                “We made some experiments, of which the following are examples:—
                “Experiment I. Cat placed on Czermak's holder, sciatic laid bare and irritated
                    with Du Bois' apparatus; an exaggerated secretion of sweat followed.
                “Experiment II. Cat: Posterior extremity amputated with the sciatic attached;
                    when an electric current was applied to the nerve the secretion of sweat
                    commenced.”
                “Experiment III. Cat placed in holder and etherised, spinal cord divided in the
                    dorsal region, and sciatic divided on one side. On inducing asphyxia [?when the
                    effect of the ether had disappeared] sweating took place in all the extremities
                    excepting that which had suffered section of the sciatic.”
                “Experiment IV. Cat: spinal cord divided between the 8th and 9th dorsal vertebræ.
                    On the next day the sciatic was divided, and a few drops of a solution of
                    muscarin injected subcutaneously at 9 a.m. The muscarin used was obtained from
                    Merck's laboratory, and given in the shape of a sulphate. 9.3 a.m., salivation
                    and sweating of all the feet, pupil contracted; 9.7 a.m., defæcation and labored
                    breathing, atropin subcutaneously injected; 9.12 a.m., sweating checked in all
                    the extremities; 9.16 a.m., injection of atropin repeated; 9.28 a.m., again
                    repeated; 10.4 a.m., sweating and salivation nearly completely checked.
                “Experiment V. Cat: spinal cord divided between the 8th and 9th dorsal vertebræ.
                    On the third day after the * Perspiration ensues upon pain; was not this sweating so
                        caused? section of the cord two
                    drops of thle muscarin solution were injected subcutaneously at 4.59 p.m.
                    Sciatic previously divided; 5.1 p.m., sweating coimmencing; 5.6 p.m., all the
                    extremities moist, salivation; 5.7 p.m., .003 grain of atropin sulphate
                    subcutaneously; 5.10 p.m., all the feet are dry.”
                In the same Journal of Physiology, Vol. II. pp. 24, et
                        seq., is an account by H. Newell Martin, Professor of Biology in the
                    Johns Hopkins Univ., Baltimore, U.S.A., and Edward Mussey Hartwell, M.A., of
                    experiments “On tihe Respiratory Function of the Internal Intercostal Muscles,”
                    which begins by making the following remarkable admission:—
                “An inspection of the ordinary text-books of physiology is sufficient to show
                    that the part played by the internal intercostal muscles, in the production of
                    the respiratory movements of the mammal, is still a subject upon which there is
                    no agreement among physiologists.” Reference is then made to the text-books of
                    Dalton, Ludwig, Vierordt, Carpenter, Flint, Hermann, McKendrick, Donders, Funke,
                    and Foster, all of whom appear to have experimented on the point, and still left
                    it “an open question.”
                The authors continue:—
                “Dogs and cats were employed in our experiments. The animals having been
                    etherised, tracheotomy was performed, and the apparatus for artificial
                    respiration connected with the windpipe.*
                    The abdomen was opened by an incision along the linea
                        alba and a transverse incision, so as to expose the diaphragm from
                    below. The skin and the serratus and pectoral and other muscles were then
                    dissected away from one side of the chest so as to lay bare the external
                    intercostal muscles from the fourth or fifth to the ninth or tenth ribs: except
                    where they were covered at their dorsal portions by the muscles running
                    alongside the *
                        This implies the administration of curare, which would render the ether
                        useless and needless for “keeping the animal quiet” for a short
                        time. vertebral column. During this
                    operation several small vessels commonly required tying, especially in the
                    dog.
                “One intercostal space, say that between the eighth and ninth ribs, was then
                    selected, and the anterior part of the external intercostal muscle divided, near
                    its attachment to the lower of the two ribs, for from an inch to an inch and a
                    half at its sternal end. The internal intercostal, which was carefully avoided
                    during the operation, then remained alone with the pleura uniting the front part
                    of the two ribs. The eighth and ninth costal cartilages and the tissues between
                    them were next divided, the chest opened, and the artificial respiration
                    apparatus set at work. The tissues in the seventh and ninth intercostal spaces
                    were then completely divided nearly all the way back to the vertebral
                    column.
                “Next, from the pleural side, a fine-bladed knife was inserted between the eighth
                    intercostal nerve and the eighth rib near the vertebral column and an incision
                    carried forward, without cutting the nerve, until it reached the outer end of
                    the region where the external intercostal muscle had been divided..... An
                    incision of similar extent was then made along the upper border of the ninth
                    rib, and finally a bit of both ribs corresponding in extent and position to
                    these incisions was completely cut away by bone forceps,” &c. Other
                    dissections of the parts of the living animals are described as having been
                    carried out, and then a string was attached to a rib “and passed over a pulley
                    to a lever which carried a weight and extended the muscle. This lever carried a
                    pen which wrote on the paper of a Ludwig's kymographion,” &c.
                “The artificial respiration was then stopped, and the animal was generally found
                    apnœic. The further course of events differ in the dog and cat.” Both, however,
                    show “expiratory convulsions,” and sometimes the artificial respiration is renewed “and the animal kept alive”
                    for the exhibition of further phenomena.
                At pages 82-90 of the same volume are recorded the results of experiments on
                    dogs, involving vivisection, in reference to “Pharyngeal Respiration,” by Dr.
                    G.M. Garland, Assistant in Physiology at Harvard Medical School, Boston.
                At pages 191-201 in the same volume is a paper “On the so-called heat dyspnœa,"
                    by Dr. Christian Sihler, Fellow of the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore.
                    After reciting Goldstein's experiments on the same subject, the author describes
                    experiments made by himself. He says (p. 184): “I have repeated all the
                    experiments of Goldstein,” and five of these are related. In Goldstein's first
                    experiment, we are told—
                “The animal (dog) is placed in a box and heated, its nose being exposed; the
                    frequency of the respiration increases as the temperature goes up. The animal is
                    taken out when its temperature has reached 41.2° C.” In the second experiment of
                    Goldstein a cat was used, in the third a dog, into the veins of which morphine
                    had been injected. The temperature was raised to 40° C. in this case, and the
                    respirations went up from 16 to 366 per minute. In the fourth experiment the
                    vagi were cut, and two tubes filled with hot water were applied to the carotid
                    artery. In reference to this experiment, Dr. Sihler observes that an increase of
                    the respirations in the animal was the result, but that it “is really, as one
                    cannot fail to observe, brought about by pain; for it must be remembered that
                    water at 54°, to say nothing of 71°, is decidedly painful to the hand.* That it was pain that called forth these
                    rapid respirations, is shown by the fact that when I let the water of the same
                    (54°) temperature run into wounds made in the thighs, the 54 centigrade, as
                        above, is equal to 129.2 Fahrenheit; and 71 centigrade equal to 159.8
                        Fahrenheit. same increase in the
                    respiratory rate occurred” (p. 194). Other experiments were made, each animal
                    being under observation for about two hours.
                The subject is further pursued by Dr. Sihler in the Journal of
                        Physiology, Vol. III., pp. 1-10.
                In the Journal of Physiology, Vol. III., page 76, 1880-1882, are
                    published the experiments of William Councilman, M.D., of Johns Hopkins
                    University. His experiments consisted in producing artificial keratitis
                    (inflammation of the cornea) in the eyes of frogs and cats by passing a thread
                    through the centre of the cornea and bringing it out through the sclerotic coat;
                    the application of various caustics, such as croton oil, nitrate of silver,
                    caustic potassa, and the hot iron; pricking the cornea with a needle.*
                In the sixth volume of the Journal of Physiology, May, 1885 (pp.
                    133-5), is a “Note on the Nature of Nerve Force,” by Dr. H.P. Bowditch,
                    Professor of Physiology, Harvard Medical School, in which it is stated as
                    follows:—
                “The failure of Wedenskii's experiments on frogs may well be supposed to depend
                    upon the slow and uncertain manner in which curare is eliminated by frogs.
                “It seemed therefore desirable to investigate the subject upon warm-blooded
                    animals, and the following experiment was performed:—
                “A cat was etherised, and the sciatic nerve divided near the sacrum. A pair of
                    shielded electrodes was then placed upon the same nerve lower down in the thigh.
                    The tendon of the tibialis anticus was dissected out and connected with a lever
                    which recorded the contraction of the muscle on the smoked paper covering a
                    cylinder revolving once in twelve hours. The secondary coil of an ordinary
                    induction apparatus was then connected with the electrodes, and the * This information
                        formed part of a valuable Report kindly supplied to the authors by Mrs. C.E.
                        White, of Philadelphia. minimum
                    intensity of stimulation requisite to produce a tetanic contraction of the
                    muscle was determined..... The animal then received a dose of curare (0.007-0.01
                    grain) sufficient to prevent muscular contractions, and the irritation of the
                    nerve was steadily maintained while the animal was kept alive by artificial
                    respiration. In the course of one and a-half to two hours the curare was so far
                    eliminated that the stimulation of the nerve, which previously had been without
                    effect, began to produce muscular twitches which, as the elimination of the drug
                    progressed, became more frequent and more violent. A true tetanus, however, was
                    never observed.
                “In some experiments a second dose of curare was given, when the muscle began to
                    twitch and the experiment was continued till the drug was a second time
                    eliminated. In this way it was found that stimulation of the nerve lasting from
                    one and a-half to four hours (the muscle being prevented from contracting by
                    curare) did not exhaust the nerve, since on the elimination of the curare the
                    muscle began to contract” (pp. 134-5).
                In the same volume (pp. 162-76) is a paper entitled “A Study of the Action of the
                    Depressor Nerve, and a Consideration of the Effect of Blood-pressure upon the
                    Heart regarded as a Sensory Organ.” By Henry Sewell, Ph.D., Professor of
                    Physiology in the University of Michigan, and D.W. Steiner, M.D., Assistant in
                    Physiology (from the Physiological Laboratory at Ann Arbor, Mich.); wherein are
                    described thirty severe experiments on cats and rabbits.
                The seventh volume of the Journal of Physiology (pp. 416-50),
                    November, 1886, contains a report of “Plethysmographic Experiments on the
                    Vaso-Motor Nerves of the Limbs,” by Dr. H.P. Bowditch, Professor of Physiology,
                    and Dr. J.W. Warren, Assistant in Physiology, Harvard Medical School. The
                    following are extracts:—
                “After some preliminary experiments on other animals it was decided to employ cats in this research, since
                    adult cats vary less than dogs in size and other physical peculiarities, and are
                    much more vigorous and tenacious of life than rabbits or other animals usually
                    employed in physiological laboratories. The latter point is one of considerable
                    importance in experiments extending over several hours... The animals were
                    curarised and kept alive by artificial respiration, while the peripheric end of
                    the divided sciatic nerve was stimulated by induction shocks varying in
                    intensity and frequency (p. 419)... The cat to be experimented upon was
                    etherised by being placed under a large bell-glass together with a sponge
                    saturated with sulphuric ether, and then secured back upwards on a board of
                    suitable size and construction, the head being held in an ordinary Czermak's
                    rabbit-holder. The sciatic nerve was then divided as near as possible to its
                    point of exit from the pelvis by the following operation, which is similar to
                    that described by Cyon* for the dog.
                “The skin is divided on a line drawn from the joint of the tail and the sacrum to
                    the trochanter, care being taken not to cut too near the vertebræ on account of
                    a large vein usually found in that region. This incision falls very near a
                    well-defined white line of the fascia, which is then to be cut through. This
                    line marks the division of what Mivart†
                    calls the two parts of the gluteus maximus. The posterior portion is lifted with
                    a blunt hook, pushed back and held there, while another hook is put under the
                    anterior portion and the gluteus medius which lies below. These muscles being
                    drawn forward, the nerve is brought into view, except in those cases where it is
                    necessary to remove some adipose tissue for its exposure. The nerve may then be
                    raised on a hook, and divided, or a portion of it excised, as the experiment may
                    require. In some cats the nerve appears to be * Methodik, p. 190.
                    † The
                            Cat, p. 155. exceedingly
                    vascular, and the blood vessels cannot always be readily isolated, so that
                    occasionally considerable bleeding occurs, while in other cases the nerve may be
                    cut without losing a drop of blood.
                “If the influence of nerve-degeneration on the vasomotor phenomena was to be
                    studied, the wound was now sewed up, the cat allowed to recover from the effects
                    of the ether, and the rest of the experiment postponed for one or more days. If
                    the phenomena were to be studied on a freshly-divided nerve, the operation was
                    continued,” &c. (pp.425-6).
                We now pass for the present from the Journal of Physiology to the
                    examination of other scientific Journals.
                The Therapeutic Gazette for July, 1885, has an article entitled,
                    “Physiological Action of Climoline Tartrate.”* The experiments were performed upon dogs, no anæsthetics having
                    been given. In the first experiment, after having secured the dog, an incision
                    was made to expose the submaxillary gland, so that the secretion of the gland
                    might flow into a graduated tube, the flow being allowed to continue in this
                    manner for a period of ten minutes. Two dogs were reported as
                    having been sacrificed for this experiment. For the purpose of ascertaining its
                    action upon the secretion of bile, three dogs were experimented
                    upon, the drug being injected into the duodenum. To ascertain its action upon
                    the spleen, two kittens were used, the drug being injected into the jugular
                    vein. In addition, numerous dogs and cats were experimented upon for the purpose
                    of ascertaining the influence of the drug upon Respiration, Circulation, and
                    Elimination.
                * The whole of these
                    extracts from the Theratpeutic Gazette and those that follow,
                    down to the end of the quotation from the American Society's Fourth Report (p.
                    24) are from the Report above mentioned, sent us by Mrs. C.E. White, of
                    Philadelphia.
                
                In the same Gazette for April, 1886, Dr. H.A. Hare has written an
                    article upon “The Physiological and Therapeutical Effect of Adonidin, The Active
                    Principle of Adonis Vernalis.” In his experiments he injected the drug into the
                    jugular vein of a number of dogs, some of them having been curarised.
                Again, in the Therapeutic Gazette for November, 1886, are reported
                    the experiments of Drs. Wood, Reichart, and Hare, upon eighteen
                    dogs and two rabbits for the purpose of making observations of the
                    action of quinine in the reduction of temperature. Artificial fever was produced
                    by injecting pepsine into the jugular vein, and then injecting the quinine
                    hypodermically. Some of the experiments lasted nearly eight hours, the whole
                    time being a period of torture for the animals employed. In most of the
                    experimnents the Clogs survived at least a period of twenty-four hours, but it
                    is stated that in one case the dog was killed by pithing.
                Again, in the Therapeutic Gazette for November, 1887, Dr. Randall
                    Hutchinson, in “A Contribution from the Laboratory of Experimental Therapeutics
                    of the University of Pa.,” describes experiments upon frogs and dogs for the
                    purpose of studying the action of Cimicifuga Racemosa. The extract of the drug
                    was injected into the jugular vein of the dogs, in some cases producing
                    death.
                Again, an article in the Therapeutic Gazette for September, 1887,
                    describes twenty-six experiments by Isaac Ott, M.D., and William S.
                    Carter, which, undoubtedly, are of a cruel nature, and all for the useless
                    purpose of ascertaining, if possible, “the four cerebral centres.” It says: “Our
                    experiments were performed upon rabbits, the brain being punctured through
                    trephined openings in the skull and through the orbit. After the observations
                    were completed the animal was killed.
                When a puncture is made in the tissues between the optic
                    thalamus and the corpus striatum near the median line, the rabbit often utters a
                    peculiar cry which is soon followed by increased temperature. The same
                    experimenter, Dr. Ott, in the Journal of Physiology, Vol. II., p.
                    42, describes a number of experiments upon a number of cats—not etherised—for
                    the purpose of making observations on the physiology of the spinal cord.
                The following, (contained in the Fourth Annual Report of the American
                        Society for the Restriction of Vivisection, 1887,) may also be here
                    quoted to show to what extent private experimentation is carried on in America,
                    albeit very little of it is brought to the knowledge of the public:—
                “Dr. B.A. Watson, a prominent physician of Jersey City, was arraigned for cruelty
                    to dogs. After having etherised the dog he would hoist it up to the ceiling and
                    allow it to fall upon its back upon bars of iron in such a manner as to produce
                    concussion of the spine. Some of the dogs recovered, whilst others lived from a
                    week to ten days after the operation.”
                The intense suffering produced by such savage cruelty can easily be imagined.
                Again, to return to the Journal of Physiology, in Vol. III., Dr.
                    Isaac Ott, late Lecturer on Experimental Physiology, Univ. of Pennsylvania, has
                    (pp. 163-4) some “Notes on Inhibition.” Here “cats were selected, bound down on
                    Czermak's holder, etherised, tracheotomy performed, the skull in the parietal
                    region at its posterior part trephined, and the opening enlarged by the bone
                    forceps. Artificial respiration was then set up, and a spear-shaped knife used
                    to sever the corpora quadrigemina, thalami optici, and cerebral crura.”
                In the International Journal of the Medical Sciences, edited by I.
                    Minis Hays, A.M., M.D., Philadelphia, and Malcolm Morris, London (Quarterly),
                    July, 1886, we find a paper on “The Surgery of the Pancreas, as Based upon Experiments and Clinical Researches.” By N.
                    Senn, M.D., Surgeon to the Milwaukee Hospital, Professor of Surgery in the
                    College of Physicians and Surgeons, Chicago. We quote the following:—
                “Dogs and cats were used exclusively as objects of these experiments, as a few
                    trials soon satisfied me that in the smaller herbivora, as the rabbit and sheep,
                    the pancreas was proportionately small and difficult of access” (p. 142).
                The first two experiments were for “complete section of the pancreas.” In one a
                    dog, 35 lbs. weight, was used. The operation was performed on August 23rd, 1885,
                    and the dog was kept alive till the 6th of December following, when he was
                    killed, that the appearances might be examined. In the second experiment the
                    animal was “an adult dog, medium size” (p. 143).
                “Laceration of the pancreas.”—Experiment on a “large adult cat, weight 7½ lbs.
                    Abdomen opened through the median line, the pancreas exposed and detached
                    sufficiently from the duodenum at the junction of the middle with the duodenal
                    end, where it was torn completely across and the bleeding ends dropped into the
                    abdominal cavity. The wound was closed in the usual manner” (p. 144). “October
                    17th, the wound was opened and it was reported that one end of the pancreas had
                    protruded from the wound. The prolapsed vicus and wound were disinfected, the
                    organ replaced, and the wound closed with sutures. The animal did not appear to
                    be very ill, but died two days later..... A portion of the duodenum appeared
                    gangrenous” (p. 145).
                Experiments were also performed involving “comminution of the pancreas,” and
                    “complete extirpation of the pancreas.” One of these latter—experiment 6—was on
                    a “brown dog, four and a-half months old; weight 32 lbs. The entire pancreas was
                    extirpated; part of the dissection was made with Paquelin's cautery.... On the
                        fourth day diarrhœa set in; stools
                    contained undigested food and free fat, and on the seventh day blood. On the
                    ninth day the animal died,” &c. (p. 148).
                “Experiment VII. Large black dog, four months old; weight 48 pounds. Experience
                    had proved that the separation of the pancreas and its vessels from the duodenum
                    could be done more safely, and with less risk of hemorrhage, by tearing the
                    tissues instead of using the scissors or knife, employing the cutting
                    instruments only when it was thought imprudent to use too much violence irn
                    separating strong connecting bands which would not yield to gentle force. In
                    this case twelve ligatures were required to arrest the hemorrhage..... This dog
                    never recovered fully from the operation, and died on the fourth day..... Recent
                    peritonitis .... gangrene” (p. 148).
                In Experiment VIII., the animal, a “large adult cat,” “never rallied from the
                    operation, and died five hours later with symptoms of hemorrhage and shock
                    combined.” An “adult female cat,” used in Experiment IX., met its death from
                    similar causes, following on the extirpation of the pancreas. In Experiment X.
                    an “adult black dog, weight 33 pounds,” was dealt with, and died of peritonitis
                    the fourth day after the operation. A “medium-sized adult cat” was used in
                    Experiment XI. “After the extirpation of the entire pancreas, the duodenum was
                    found on measurement to have been denuded of its mesenteric attachment to the
                    extent of seven inches..... The animal never rallied from the operation and died
                    two hours later.” (pp. 148-9).
                Four other experiments for the “partial extirpation of the pancreas” are
                    recorded—two on dogs and two on cats. At the end of four weeks the dogs became
                    emaciated, and after seventy-six days died of marasmus. One cat died two days
                    after the experimental vivisection, of “gangrene and perforation of the
                    duodenum,” and the other died eighteen hours
                    after the vivisection “in convulsions.” Fourteen other animals—seven dogs and
                    seven cats—were experimented on for “Obliteration of the pancreatic duct by
                    elastic constriction.” These are recorded in detail on pages 155-57. Of the
                    first twelve we learn that “only two of the animals recovered after isolation
                    and double ligation of the pancreas.” The other two, a “large adult cat” and a
                    “large Newfoundland dog” were killed some timne after the operation.
                Four other experiments were made with “external pancreatic fistula,” and eleven
                    more with “internal pancreatic fistula.” The total number of the experiments
                    recorded is forty-three.
                In the same publication, No. CLXXXIII., New Series, pp. 423-54,
                    October, 1886, Dr. Senn relates forty-two cases of injury to the pancreas in the
                    human subject in which the consequences of lesions in that organ have been
                    studied; these, apparently, showing the needlessness of experiments on
                    animals.
                A paper on “An experimental Research into Rabies,” by Harold C. Ernst, A.M., M.D.
                    Harv., Demonstrator of Bacteriology in the Medical School of Harvard University,
                    is printed in the International Journal of the Medical Sciences,
                    April, 1887. It contains an account of a repetition of Pasteur's experiments
                    with rabies.
                The author records that on the 2nd of July, 1886, he “received from Dr. Hamilton
                    Osgood two rabbits, one of which had been inoculated upon the 19th or 20th of
                    June, in Pasteur's laboratory, and had died on the 28th of June, and been kept
                    upon ice since that time; the second of which was inoculated on the 21st of June
                    in Pasteur's laboratory by Pasteur himself, and, alive when received, died on
                    the night of July 4th.” With matter from the spinal cord of these Dr. Ernst
                    inoculated by trephining thirty-two rabbits, all of which subsequently died of
                    rabies. The symptoms described are, first
                    unsteadiness of gait, next stiffness or lameness, or paralysis, then,
                    “occasionally a decided change in the character of the animal; from being lively
                    and affectionate it becomes dull and sluggish, and even fierce—if such a term
                    may be applied to a rabbit; in the latter case it will jump at and bite objects
                    held towards it, and may even growl and spit at them, showing every evidence of
                    a desire to do harm.... The power of deglutition is lost in twenty-four or more
                    hours from tle first appearance of any symptoms—and it was at one time supposed
                    that death was caused by starvation. This can hardly be the case, however,
                    inasmuch as the stomach is always full of partially digested food,
                    &c.... Just before death there seems to be a revival of the powers—as
                    manifested by a renewal of struggles”—to walk about, &c. Eight other
                    rabbits were inoculated, but owing to various causes no result was produced. Ten
                    more were used for “control” experiments. Twelve guinea-pigs, nine dogs, and
                    numerous rabbits were used for further experiments.
                In another paper in the same Journal Dr. Beyer, Passed
                    Assist.-Surg. U.S.N., describes “The Direct Action of Atropine, Hematropine,
                    Hyoscine, Hyoscyamine, and Daturine on the heart of the Dog, Terrapin,
                    Frog.”
                At page 370 the author says:—
                “The animal having been placed under the influence of morphia, is fastened to a
                    dog-holder, tracheotomy is performed, and a cannula introduced into the trachea.
                    The external jugular vein is then dissected out and a cannula filled with normal
                    salt solution introduced with its open end pointing towards the heart. Through
                    the latter cannula about half-a-drachm of a one per cent. solution of curare is
                    injected, after which injection artificial respiration is commenced. The vagi
                    are now found and carefully divided. Cannulas are introduced into the cardiac
                    end of both common carotids, the arteries being clamped on the cardiac sides of the cannula. The first two pairs of costal
                    cartilages are now cut away, together with the small piece of sternum which they
                    embrace. Then the two internal mammary arteries are ligated just as they pass
                    forward from the subclavians towards the breast bone. The whole front and sides
                    of the thorax are now cut away, and the right subclavian artery dissected out
                    and tied,” &c. The left side of the chest is treated in much the same
                    way. The mutilated animal, on the holder, is subsequently placed in a warm
                    chamber, and later observations begin. The experiments are stated to have been
                    made in May, 1886. The 21st, 26th, and 27th, were each on a “small adult dog.”
                    Eight other experiments were also made on dogs. The author refers to Ludwig's
                    and Gaskell's experiments in a like direction, and it is clear there is only one
                    world of physiology, which includes America along with Germany and Great
                    Britain.
                In the International Journal of the Medical Sciences, No.
                    CLXXXII., October, 1887, p. 436, etc.
                Dr. W.S. Halsted, of New York, relates “An Experimental Study” on “Circular
                    Suture of the Intestine.”
                “Experiment A.—Small young dog. Operated on January 18th, 1887. Needles with
                        dulled ends employed for sewing. Circular resection of
                    intestine. Two rows of interrupted stitches passed as deep as, but not including
                    any portion of submucosa—suture of muscular coat. The stitches tore badly
                    (particularly those of the first row) and had to be frequently retaken.
                “January 23rd., Dog found dead. Autopsy: suppurative peritonitis;
                    sutures had given way completely.”
                “Experiment B.—Medium-sized dog. Operation January 18th, 1887. To include in each
                    stitch a thread of submucosa. Irrigation with solution of corrosive sublimate,
                    1:1000. Glass clamps; suture, catgut. Two rows of interrupted stitches.” The dog was killed on the 19th of February.
                “Experiment C.—Operation January 20th, 1887. To reverse about one foot of
                    intestine.... The “dog died of shock a few hours after operation,”
                    &c.
                “To satisfy my curiosity, I made experiments D., E., and F.”
                Experiment D. was on a small brindled and white bulldog (pup). Found dead the day
                    after the operation. “Autopsy: Complete slough of flaps and gaping of circular
                    wound.”
                Experiment E. was on a “large long-haired dog.” This animal died on the 11th day
                    after the operation.... The experiment necessitated a good deal of stitching. It
                    died of gangrene.
                Eight experiments were performed on dogs with “Lembert's stitches.” No. 1,
                    “evidently dying of starvation,” was killed. No. 2 was “not lively after
                    operation,” and was killed on the twelfth day following. When examined it
                    presented abnormal and diseased conditions, the result of the experiment. Nos.
                    3, 4, and 5 all “died within two or three days of the operation, from purulent
                        peritonitis.”* No. 6 died under the
                    operation, which was carried on for two hours,.on a “young, small brindled dog.”
                    No. 7 was found dead two days after the operation connected with the experiment
                    “to isolate loop” had been performed upon it. No. 8, a “rather large black and
                    white dog,” was subjected to experiment on January 8th, 1887, also “to isolate
                    loop of intestine.” On the 9th it was “evidently starving to death.” Its abdomen
                    was re-opened and “many and very strong adhesions”† were found to have resulted from the
                    treatment it had been subjected to.
                In another group fifteen dlogs were dealt with, some of * An agonisinig
                        disease.
                    † The conscquencces
                        of inflammation. which died from
                    thie effects of the experiment, and others were killed when they appeared to be
                    dying of starvation, being weak and emaciated.” In Group III. six dogs, and in
                    Group IV. three dogs, were utilised, all of them suffering severely, and most
                    dying from the effects of the treatment involved in the author's
                    experiments.
                Dr. Halsted, just before summarising the results of his experiments, observes (p.
                    460)—
                “I shall not record the rest of my experiments on circular suture of the
                    intestine, because most of them seem now rather absurd to me, and
                    none of them admit of classification.”
                With this significant confession we shall conclude our catalogue of cruelties
                    committed in America by American physiologists. It will be noted,
                1st, That it has been compiled almost exclusively of experiments on the higher
                    and more sensitive animals;
                2nd, That the use of curare in these experiments has been perpetual, while that
                    of real anæsthetics has been so partial and temporary as scarcely to afford a
                    reduction of twenty per cent. on the agony normally produced by the manglings
                    undergone by the victims;
                3rd, That no less than twenty-four American physiologists contributed to the vast
                    sum of suffering we have registered, namely:—Dr. Austin Flint (New York); Dr.
                    Isaac Ott (Pennsylvania); G.B. Woodfield; Dr. H. Newell Martin (Johns Hopkins
                    University); Edward Mussey Hartwell; Dr. G.M. Garland (Harvard); Dr. Christian
                    Sihler (Johns Hopkins University); Dr. W. Councilman (Johns Hopkins University);
                    Dr. H.O. Bowditch (Harvard); Dr. Henry Sewell (Michigan); Dr. D.W. Steiner
                    (Michigan); Dr. J.W. Warren (Harvard); Dr. H.A. Hare; Dr. Wood; Dr. Reichert;
                    Dr. Randall Hutchinson (Pennsylvania); William S. Carter; Dr. B.A. Watson (Jersey City); H.H. Donaldson (Johns Hopkins
                    University); Lewis J. Stevens; Dr. N. Senn (Chicago); Dr. Harold C. Ernst
                    (Harvard); Dr. Beyer; and Dr. W.S. Halsted (New York).
                4th. At least five great States of the Union, viz., New York, Massachusetts,
                    Michigan, Illinois, and Pennsylvania, contain among their noble educational,
                    religious and charitable institutions, a score of chambers wherein the Art of
                    Torture has been carried to a perfection which the “devildoms of Spain” in the
                    old days of the Inquisition could not equal in ingenuity or pitilessness.
                Men and Women of America! Suffer us who are laboring to stop vivisection in our
                    own country, to plead with you for its suppression in your younger land, where
                    as yet the new vice of scientific cruelty cannot be deeply rooted. An appeal has
                    just been made to you in one of your foremost periodicals* to subscribe out of your private
                    resources to support physiological laboratories for the sake of the utility of
                    vivisection to surgery. How fallacious is that plea we leave to be set forth by
                    such experts as our own illustrious surgeon, Mr. Lawson Tait,† whose great contributions to the progress
                    of surgery the author himself acknowledges. But whether the practice be useful
                    or useless, we ask you to reflect whether it be morally lawful—(not
                    to speak of humane, or generous, or manly)—to seek to relieve our own pains at
                    the cost of such unutterable anguish as has been already inflicted on
                    unoffending creatures in the name of Science? You now know, to a * Art. Recent
                            Progress in Surgery, by Dr. W.W. Keen. Harper's
                            Magazine, October, 1889.
                    † See
                            Uselessness of Vivisection, by Lawson Tait, F.R.C.S.,
                        &c., pp. 41, Offices of Victoria Street Society, 20, Victoria
                        Street, London. certain extent,
                        what it is that the advocates of vivisection really mean when
                    they ask you to endow “Research.” Will you—bearing their experiments in
                        mind—pay them to repeat such cruelties?
                We look forward with hope and confidence to find that the hour wherein the
                    intelligence of America awakens to the true nature of Vivisection, will be the
                    hour of the condemnation thereof by your consciences, and the prohibition
                    thereof by your laws.
            
            THE END.
            
            
        
    
