
     ----CITATION----
        Warner, Elizabeth Anne. Introduction to Notes Upon Some of Shakespeare's Plays. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7399_intro
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                Introduction to Notes Upon Some of Shakespeare's Plays
                By Elizabeth Warner
                Notes Upon Some of
                            Shakespeare's Plays is one of Frances Anne "Fanny" Kemble's
                    lesser-known works. She is more often remembered for her public readings, her stage performances,
                    and her journals of her life experiences. But Notes Upon Shakespeare
                    is inspired by her work on the stage and her ability to feel characters in the moment of performance
                    and merits serious attention. In Fanny's interpretations, the characters are real people, with
                    real motivations and real consistency in their actions. Her natural ability to capture characters,
                    which proved remarkably useful to her during her stage careers, comes through in her readings of
                    certain characters. Lady Macbeth, for example, to whom Fanny devotes an entire chapter of the text,
                    cannot be redeemed or experience deep regret, according to Fanny's reading of her
                    remorselessness: Never, even in her dreams, does any gracious sorrow smite
                        from her stony heart the blessed brine of tears that wash away sin; never, even in her dreams,
                        do the avenging furies lash her through purgatorial flames that burn away guilt; and the dreary
                        but undismayed desolation in which her spirit abides for ever is quite other than that darkness,
                        however deep, which the soul acknowledges, and whence it may yet behold the breaking of a dawn
                        shining far off from round the mercy-seat. (52) Fanny's readings often rely on feelings of the characters,
                    rather than directly on textual evidence, so they may strike some modern readers as unsubstantiated.
                    But it is important to keep in mind that Fanny had evidence, nevertheless, on which to make her
                    claims듳ears of experience in acting and reading these characters in front of audiences throughout
                    Europe and the United States. The
                            Notes are a remarkable record of a remarkable period in Shakespearean
                    performance드 gust of energy from the Victorian return to Shakespeare's texts. 
                Fanny's prose also retains some of the same quality that made her a successful poet during her
                    lifetime. There is an intensity and a passion to her writing that enlivens many passages, making
                    what could have been dry interpretation become a kind of poetic enterprise of its own. For instance,
                    as she writes of the experience of reading or performing Macbeth, she notes its effect on the hearer or reader: To every human soul it tells the story of its own experience, rendered indeed more impressive
                        by the sublime poetry in which it is uttered; but it is the truth itself, and not the form in
                        which it is presented, which makes the force of the appeal; and the terrible truth with which
                        the insidious approach of temptation들ts imperceptible advances, its gradual progress, its
                        clinging pertinacity, its recurring importunity, its prevailing fascination, its bewildering
                        sophistry, its pitiless tenacity, its imperious tyranny, and its final hideous triumph over all
                        moral sense들s delineated, that makes Macbeth the grandest
                        of all poetical lessons, the most powerful of all purely fictitious moralities, the most solemn
                        of all lay sermons drawn from the text of human nature. (21-22)
                     It may well be her experience in journal writing and in recording life experiences that
                    gives this passage드nd many others들ts power. For who does not hear, in this delineation of the
                    progress of temptation, something true to human experience? Even the measured way in which she
                    describes its progress adds conviction and recognition. 
                While she works from feeling and knowledge gained on the stage for many of her early interpretations,
                    her two chapters on The Tempest are different. Here, Fanny
                    takes on the eminent듩ow notorious듑hakespeare scholar John Payne Collier,
                        who in 1853 had published with great 匐lat, an edition of Shakespeare's Second Folio of 1632, incorporating thousands of
                    "emendations" in an unknown "contemporary" hand, which came to be known as the
                    "Old Corrector." The emendations were eventually exposed as forgeries (though opinion
                    still differs), but the volume that Collier published based on what was known as the "Perkins
                    Folio" had considerable popularity after its publication. 
                Methodically moving from emendation to emendation, Fanny tests each out, based on her own sense and
                    theatrical tradition, often comparing Collier's emendations with those in an oft-overlooked
                    edition from the 18th century, the Oxford Edition of
                            Shakespeare. She writes with authority, and a surprising amount of it,
                    considering the time period and the long history of male-dominance in Shakespeare scholarship. For
                    instance, as she discussions a change in Act 1, Scene 2 of The Tempest, a
                    substitution of "prevision" for "provision," Kemble pronounces, very directly
                    and succinctly: "I do not agree to the value of the change. It is very true that prevision
                    means the foresight that his art gave him, but provision implies the exercise of that foresight or
                    prevision; it is therefore better, because more comprehensive" (112). 
                The exact publication history of Notes Upon Some of Shakespeare's Plays is uncertain. Some chapters were
                    published in magazines in the 1860s들ncluding The Atlantic
                        Monthly, Cornhill Magazine, and
                            Harper's New Monthly Magazine. The essays were
                    finally collected and published in 1882, in the edition reproduced here. 
            
        
    
