
     ----CITATION----
        Corelli, Marie (1855-1924). The Soul of Lilith, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 347 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (09-March-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7163
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE SOUL OF LILITH 
                
                BY MARIE CORELLI AUTHOR OF 'ARDATH,' 'A ROMANCE OF
                    TWO WORLDS,' 'THELMA,' 'VENDETTA!' ETC.
                
                    
                        
                            "Not a drop of her blood was human,
                            But she was made like a soft sweet woman"
                        
                        DANTE G. ROSSETTI
                    
                
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. I.
                SECOND EDITION
                
                    LONDON: 
                    RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the
                        Queen
                
                1892
                [All rights reserved]
            
            
                
                INTRODUCTORY NOTE.
                THE following story does not assume to be what is
                    generally understood by a "novel." It is simply the account of a strange and
                    daring experiment once actually attempted, and is offered to those who are
                    interested in the unseen "possibilities" of the Hereafter, merely for what it
                    is,—a single episode in the life of a man who voluntarily sacrificed his whole
                    worldly career in a supreme effort to prove the apparently Unprovable.
            
        
        
            
            
            THE SOUL OF LILITH
            
                CHAPTER I.
                THE theatre was full,—crowded from floor to ceiling;
                    the lights were turned low to give the stage full prominence,—and a large
                    audience packed close in pit and gallery as well as in balcony and stalls,
                    listened with or without interest, whichever way best suited their different
                    temperaments and manner of breeding, to the well-worn famous soliloquy in
                        "Hamlet"—"To be or not to be." It was the first night of a new
                    rendering of Shakespeare's ever puzzling play,—the chief actor was a great
                    actor, albeit not admitted as such by the petty cliques,—he had thought out the
                    strange  and complex character of the
                    psychological Dane for himself, with the result that even the listless, languid,
                    generally impassive occupants of the stalls, many of whom had no doubt heard a
                    hundred Hamlets, were roused for once out of their chronic state of boredom into
                    something like attention, as the familiar lines fell on their ears with a slow
                    and meditative richness of accent not commonly heard on the modern stage. This
                    new Hamlet chose his attitudes well,—instead of walking or rather strutting
                    about as he uttered the soliloquy, he seated himself and for a moment seemed
                    lost in silent thought;— then, without changing his position he began, his voice
                    gathering deeper earnestness as the beauty and solemnity of the immortal lines
                    became more pronounced and concentrated. 
                        "To die—to sleep;—
                        To sleep!—perchance to dream; ay, there's the rub,
                        For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
                        When we have shuffled off this mortal coil
                        Must give us pause..."
                    
                Here there was a brief and impressive silence. In that short interval, and before
                    the actor could resume his speech, a man entered the theatre with noiseless step
                    and  seated himself in a vacant stall of the
                    second row. A few heads were instinctively turned to look at him, but in the
                    semi-gloom of the auditorium, his features could scarcely be discerned, and
                    Hamlet's sad rich voice again compelled attention. 
                        "Who would fardels bear,
                        To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
                        But that the dread of something after death,
                        The undiscovered country from whose bourne
                        No traveller returns, puzzles the will
                        And makes us rather bear those ills we have
                        Than fly to others that we know not of?
                        Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
                        And thus the native hue of resolution
                        Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought;
                        And enterprises of great pith and moment,
                        With this regard, their currents turn awry
                        And lose the name of action."
                    
                The scene went on to the despairing interview with Ophelia, which was throughout
                    performed with such splendid force and feeling as to awaken a perfect hurricane
                    of applause;—then the curtain went down, the lights went up, the orchestra
                    recommenced, and again inquisitive eyes were turned towards the latest new-comer
                    in the stalls who had made his quiet entrance in the very midst of the great
                    philosophical Soliloquy.  He was immediately
                    discovered to be a person well worth observing; and observed he was accordingly,
                    though he seemed quite unaware of the attention he was attracting. Yet he was
                    singular-looking enough to excite a little curiosity even among modern
                    fashionable Londoners, who are accustomed to see all sorts of eccentric beings,
                    both male and female, æsthetic and common-place, and he was so distinctively
                    separated from ordinary folk by his features and bearing, that the rather loud
                    whisper of an irrepressible young American woman—"I'd give worlds to know who
                    that man is!" was almost pardonable under the circumstances. His skin was dark
                    as a mulatto's,—yet smooth, and healthily coloured by the warm blood flushing
                    through the olive tint,—his eyes seemed black, but could scarcely be seen on
                    account of the extreme length and thickness of their dark lashes,—the fine,
                    rather scornful curve of his short upper lip was partially hidden by a black
                    moustache; and with all this blackness and darkness about his face, his hair, of
                    which he seemed to have an extraordinary profusion, was perfectly white. Not
                    merely a  silvery white, but a white as
                    pronounced as that of a bit of washed fleece or newly-fallen snow. In looking at
                    him it was impossible to decide whether he was old or young,—because, though he
                    carried no wrinkles or other defacing marks of Time's power to destroy, his
                    features wore an impress of such stern and deeply resolved thought as is seldom
                    or never the heritage of those to whom youth still belongs. Nevertheless, he
                    seemed a long way off from being old,—so that, altogether, he was a puzzle to
                    his neighbours in the stalls, as well as to certain fair women in the boxes, who
                    levelled their opera-glasses at him with a pertinacity which might have made him
                    uncomfortably self-conscious had he looked up. Only he did not look up; he
                    leaned back in his seat with a slightly listless air, studied his programme
                    intently, and appeared half asleep, owing to the way in which his eyelids
                    drooped, and the drowsy sweep of his lashes. The irrepressible American girl
                    almost forgot "Hamlet," so absorbed was she in staring at him, in spite of the
                        sotto-voce remonstrances of her decorous
                    mother, who sat beside her,—and presently,  as
                    if aware of, or annoyed by, her scrutiny, he lifted his eyes, and looked full at
                    her. With an instinctive movement she recoiled,—and her own eyes fell. Never in
                    all her giddy, thoughtless little life had she seen such fiery, brilliant,
                    night-black orbs,—they made her feel uncomfortable,—gave her the "creeps," as
                    she afterwards declared;—she shivered, drawing her satin opera-wrap more closely
                    about her, and stared at the stranger no more. He soon removed his piercing gaze
                    from her to the stage, for now the great "Play scene" of "Hamlet" was in
                    progress, and was from first to last a triumph for the actor chiefly concerned.
                    At the next fall of the curtain, a fair, dissipated-looking young fellow leaned
                    over from the third row of stalls, and touched the white-haired individual
                    lightly on the shoulder.
                "My dear El-Râmi! You here? At a theatre? Why, I should never have thought you
                    capable of indulging in such frivolity!"
                "Do you consider "Hamlet" frivolous?" queried the other, rising from his seat to
                    shake hands, and showing himself to be a man of medium height, though having
                    such  peculiar dignity of carriage as made him
                    appear taller than he really was.
                "Well, no!"—and the young man yawned rather effusively. "To tell you the truth, I
                    find him insufferably dull."
                "You do?" and the person addressed as El-Râmi smiled slightly. "Well,—naturally
                    you go with the opinions of your age. You would no doubt prefer a
                    burlesque?"
                "Frankly speaking, I should! And now I begin to think of it, I don't know really
                    why I came here. I had intended to look in at the Empire—there's a new ballet
                    going on there—but a fellow at the club gave me this stall, said it was a
                    "first-night," and all the rest of it—and so—"
                "And so Fate decided for you," finished El-Râmi sedately. "And instead of
                    admiring the pretty ladies without proper clothing at the Empire, you find
                    yourself here, wondering why the deuce Hamlet the Dane could not find anything
                    better to do than bother himself about his father's ghost! Exactly! But, being
                    here, you are here for a purpose, my friend;" and he lowered his voice to a
                    confidential whisper. "Look!—Over there— 
                    observe her well!—sits your future wife;"—and he indicated, by the slightest
                    possible nod, the American girl before alluded to. "Yes,—the pretty creature in
                    pink, with dark hair. You don't know her? No, of course you don't—but you will.
                    She will be introduced to you to-night before you leave this theatre. Don't look
                    so startled—there's nothing miraculous about her, I assure you! She is merely
                    Miss Chester, only daughter of Jabez Chester, the latest New York millionaire. A
                    charmingly shallow, delightfully useless, but enormously wealthy little
                    person!—you will propose to her within a month, and you will be accepted. A very
                    good match for you, Vaughan—all your debts paid, and everything set straight
                    with certain Jews. Nothing could be better, really—and, remember,—I am the first
                    to congratulate you!"
                He spoke rapidly, with a smiling, easy air of conviction; his friend meanwhile
                    stared at him in profound amazement and something of fear.
                "By Jove, El-Râmi!"—he began nervously—"you know, this is a little too much of a
                         good thing. It's all very well to play
                    prophet sometimes, but it can be overdone."
                "Pardon!" and El-Râmi turned to resume his seat. "The play begins again.
                    Insufferably dull as "Hamlet" may be, we are bound to give him some slight
                    measure of attention."
                Vaughan forced a careless smile in response, and threw himself indolently back in
                    his own stall, but he looked annoyed and puzzled. His eyes wandered from the
                    back of El-Râmi's white head to the half-seen profile of the American heiress
                    who had just been so coolly and convincingly pointed out to him as his future
                    wife.
                "I don't know the girl from Adam,"—he thought irritably, "and I don't want to
                    know her. In fact, I won't know her. And if I won't, why, I shan't know her.
                    Will is everything, even according to El-Râmi. The fellow's always so
                    confoundedly positive of his prophecies. I should like to confute him for once
                    and prove him wrong."
                Thus he mused, scarcely heeding the progress of Shakespeare's great tragedy,
                    till, at the close of the scene of Ophelia's burial,  he saw El-Râmi rise and prepare to leave the
                    auditorium. He at once rose himself.
                "Are you going?" he asked.
                "Yes;—I do not care for "Hamlet's" end, or for anybody's end in this particular
                    play. I don't like the hasty and wholesale slaughter that concludes the piece.
                    It is inartistic."
                "Shakespeare inartistic?" queried Vaughan, smiling.
                "Why yes, sometimes. He was a man, not a god;—and no man's work can be absolutely
                    perfect. Shakespeare had his faults like everybody else,—and with his great
                    genius he would have been the first to own them. It is only your little
                    mediocrities who are never wrong. Are you going also?"
                "Yes; I mean to damage your reputation as a prophet, and avoid the chance of an
                    introduction to Miss Chester—for this evening, at any rate."
                He laughed as he spoke, but El-Râmi said nothing. The two passed out of the
                    stalls together into the lobby, where they had to wait a few minutes to get
                    their hats and overcoats, the man in charge of the cloakroom having gone to cool
                    his chronic thirst  at the convenient "bar."
                    Vaughan made use of the enforced delay to light his cigar.
                "Did you think it a good "Hamlet"?" he asked his companion carelessly while thus
                    occupied.
                "Excellent," replied El-Râmi. "The leading actor has immense talent, and
                    thoroughly appreciates the subtlety of the part he has to play;—but his
                    supporters are all sticks,—hence the scenes drag where he himself is not in
                    them. That is the worst of the "star" system,—a system which is perfectly
                    ruinous to histrionic art. Still—no matter how it is performed, "Hamlet" is
                    always interesting. Curiously inconsistent, too, but impressive."
                "Inconsistent? how?" asked Vaughan, beginning to puff rings of smoke into the
                    air, and to wonder impatiently how much longer the keeper of the cloak-room
                    meant to stay absent from his post.
                "Oh, in many ways. Perhaps the most glaring inconsistency of the whole conception
                    comes out in the great soliloquy, "To be or not to be."'
                "Really?" and Vaughan became interested.  —"I
                    thought that was considered one of the finest bits in the play."
                "So it is. I am not speaking of the lines themselves, which are magnificent, but
                    of their connection with "Hamlet's" own character. Why does he talk of a "bourne
                    from whence no traveller returns," when he has, or thinks he has, proof positive
                    of the return of his own father in spiritual form;—and it is just concerning
                    that return that he makes all the pother? Don't you see inconsistency
                    there?"
                "Of course,—but I never thought of it," said Vaughan, staring. "I don't believe
                    anyone but yourself has ever thought of it. It is quite unaccountable. He
                    certainly does say "no traveller returns,"—and he says it after he has seen the
                    ghost too."
                "Yes," went on El-Râmi, warming with his subject. "And he talks of the "dread of
                    something after death," as if it were only a "dread," and not a Fact;—whereas if
                    he is to believe the spirit of his own father, which he declares is "an honest
                    ghost," there is no possibility of doubt on the matter. Does not the mournful
                    phantom say— 
                    
                        "'But that I am forbid
                        To tell the secrets of my prison-house
                        I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word
                        Would harrow up thy soul; freeze thy young blood;
                        Make thy two eyes like stars start from their spheres;
                        Thy knotted and combinèd locks to part,
                        And each particular hair to stand on end. . .'?"
                    
                "By Jove! I say, El-Râmi; don't look at me like that!" exclaimed Vaughan
                    uneasily, backing away from a too close proximity to the brilliant flashing eyes
                    and absorbed face of his companion, who had recited the lines with extraordinary
                    passion and solemnity.
                El-Râmi laughed.
                "Did I scare you? Was I too much in earnest? I beg your pardon! True
                    enough,—"this eternal blazon must not be, to ears of flesh and blood!" But, the
                    "something after death" was a peculiarly aggravating reality to that poor ghost,
                    and Hamlet knew that it was so when he spoke of it as a mere "dread." Thus, as I
                    say, he was inconsistent, or, rather, Shakespeare did not argue the case
                    logically."
                "You would make a capital actor,"—said Vaughan, still gazing at him in
                    astonishment.  "Why, you went on just now as
                    if,—well, as if you meant it, you know."
                "So I did mean it," replied El-Râmi lightly—"for the moment! I always find
                    "Hamlet" a rather absorbing study; so will you, perhaps, when you are my
                    age."
                "Your age?" and Vaughan shrugged his shoulders. "I wish I knew it! Why, nobody
                    knows it. You may be thirty or a hundred—who can tell?"
                "Or two hundred—or even three hundred?" queried El-Râmi, with a touch of satire
                    in his tone;—"why stint the measure of limitless time? But here comes our
                    recalcitrant knave"—this, as the keeper of the cloakroom made his appearance
                    from a side-door with a perfectly easy and unembarrassed air, as though he had
                    done rather a fine thing than otherwise in keeping two gentlemen waiting his
                    pleasure. "Let us get our coats, and be well away before the decree of Fate can
                    be accomplished in making you the winner of the desirable Chester prize. It is
                    delightful to conquer Fate—if one can!"
                His black eyes flashed curiously, and  Vaughan
                    paused in the act of throwing on his overcoat to look at him again in something
                    of doubt and dread.
                At that moment a gay voice exclaimed:
                "Why, here's Vaughan!—Freddie Vaughan—how lucky!" and a big handsome man of about
                    two or three and thirty sauntered into the lobby from the theatre, followed by
                    two ladies. "Look here, Vaughan, you're just the fellow I wanted to see. We've
                    left Hamlet in the thick of his fight, because we're going on to the Somers's
                    ball,—will you come with us? And I say, Vaughan, allow me to introduce to you my
                    friends—Mrs. Jabez Chester, Miss Idina Chester—Sir Frederick Vaughan."
                For one instant Vaughan stood inert and stupefied; the next he remembered
                    himself, and bowed mechanically. His presentation to the Chesters was thus
                    suddenly effected by his cousin, Lord Melthorpe, to whom he was indebted for
                    many favours, and whom he could not afford to offend by any show of brusquerie.
                    As soon as the necessary salutations were exchanged, however, he looked round
                    vaguely, and in a sort of  superstitious
                    terror, for the man who had so surely prophesied this introduction. But El-Râmi
                    was gone. Silently and without adieu he had departed, having seen his word
                    fulfilled.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                "WHO is the gentleman that just left you?" asked Miss
                    Chester, smiling prettily up into Vaughan's eyes, as she accepted his proffered
                    arm to lead her to her carriage,—"Such a distinguished-looking dreadful
                    person!"
                Vaughan smiled at this description.
                "He is certainly rather singular in personal appearance," he began, when his
                    cousin, Lord Melthorpe, interrupted him.
                "You mean El-Râmi? It was El-Râmi, wasn't it? Ah, I thought so. Why
                    did he give us the slip, I wonder? I wish he had waited a minute—he is a most
                    interesting fellow."
                "But who is he?" persisted Miss Chester. She was now comfortably
                    ensconced in her luxurious brougham, her mother beside  her, and two men of "title" opposite to her—a
                    position which exactly suited the aspirations of her soul. "How very tiresome
                    you both are! You don't explain him a bit; you only say he is "interesting," and
                    of course one can see that; people with such white hair and such black eyes are
                    always interesting, don't you think so?"
                "Well, I don't see why they should be," said Lord Melthorpe dubiously. "Now, just
                    think what horrible chaps Albinos are, and they have white hair and pink
                    eyes—"
                "Oh, don't drift off on the subject of Albinos, please!" pleaded Miss Chester,
                    with a soft laugh. "If you do, I shall never know anything about this particular
                    person—El-Râmi, did you say? Isn't it a very odd name? Eastern, of course?"
                "Oh yes! he is a pure Oriental thoroughbred," replied Lord Melthorpe, who took
                    the burden of the conversation upon himself, while he inwardly wondered why his
                    cousin Vaughan was in such an evidently taciturn mood. "That is, I mean, he is
                    an Oriental of the very old stock, not one of the modern Indian mixtures of vice
                    and knavery. But  when he came from the East,
                    and why he came from the East, I don't suppose anyone could tell you. I have
                    only met him two or three times in society, and on those occasions he managed to
                    perplex and fascinate a good many people. My wife, for instance, thinks him
                    quite a marvellous man; she always asks him to her parties, but he hardly ever
                    comes. His name in full is El-Râmi-Zarânos, though I believe he is best known as
                    El-Râmi simply."
                "And what is he?" asked Miss Chester. "An artist?—a literary celebrity?"
                "Neither, that I am aware of. Indeed, I don't know what he is, or how he lives. I
                    have always looked upon him as a sort of magician—a kind of private conjurer,
                    you know."
                "Dear me!" said fat Mrs. Chester, waking up from a semi-doze, and trying to get
                    interested in the subject. "Does he do drawing-room tricks?"
                "Oh no, he doesn't do tricks;" and Lord Melthorpe looked a little amused. "He
                    isn't that sort of man at all; I'm afraid I explain myself badly. I mean that he
                    can  tell you extraordinary things about your
                    past and future—"
                "Oh, by your hand—I know!" and the pretty Idina nodded her head
                    sagaciously. "There really is something awfully clever in palmistry.
                        I can tell fortunes that way!"
                "Can you?" Lord Melthorpe smiled indulgently, and went on,—"But it so happens
                    that El-Râmi does not tell anything by the hand,—he judges by the face, figure,
                    and movement. He doesn't make a profession of it; but, really, he does foretell
                    events in rather a curious way now and then."
                "He certainly does!" agreed Vaughan, rousing himself from a reverie into which he
                    had fallen, and fixing his eyes on the small piquante features of the girl
                    opposite him. "Some of his prophecies are quite remarkable."
                "Really! How very delightful!" said Miss Chester, who was fully aware of Sir
                    Frederick's intent, almost searching, gaze, but pretended to be absorbed in
                    buttoning one of her gloves. "I must ask him to tell me what sort of fate is in
                    store for me—something awful, I'm positive! Don't you  think he has horrid eyes?—splendid, but horrid? He
                    looked at me in the theatre—"
                "My dear, you looked at him first," murmured Mrs. Chester.
                "Yes; but I'm sure I didn't make him shiver. Now, when he looked at me, I felt as
                    if someone were pouring cold water very slowly down my back. It was
                        such a creepy sensation! Do fasten this, mother—will you?" and
                    she extended the hand with the refractory glove upon it to Mrs. Chester, but
                    Vaughan promptly interposed:
                "Allow me!"
                "Oh, well! if you know how to fix a button that is almost off!" she said
                    laughingly, with a blush that well became her transparent skin.
                "I can make an attempt"—said Vaughan, with due humility. "If I succeed, will you
                    give me one or two dances presently?"
                "With pleasure!"
                "Oh! you are coming in to the Somers's, then!" said Lord Melthorpe,
                    in a pleased tone. "That's right. You know, Fred, you're so absent-minded
                    to-night, that you  never said "Yes" or "No"
                    when I asked you to accompany us."
                "Didn't I? I'm awfully sorry!" and, having fastened the glove with careful
                    daintiness, he smiled. "Please set down my rudeness and distraction to the
                    uncanny influence of El-Râmi; I can't imagine any other reason."
                They all laughed carelessly, as people in an idle humour laugh at trifles, and
                    the carriage bore them on to their destination—a great house in Queen's Gate,
                    where a magnificent entertainment was being held in honour of some Serene and
                    Exalted foreign potentate who had taken it into his head to see how London
                    amused itself during a "season." The foreign potentate had heard that the
                    splendid English capital was full of gloom and misery—that its women were
                    unapproachable, and its men difficult to make friends with; and all these
                    erroneous notions had to be dispersed in his serene and exalted brain, no matter
                    what his education cost the "Upper Ten" who undertook to enlighten his barbarian
                    ignorance.
                Meanwhile, the subject of Lord 
                        Mel-
                        Melthorpe's
                    
                     thorpe's conversation—El-Râmi, or
                    El-Râmi-Zarânos, as he was called by those of his own race—was walking quietly
                    homewards with that firm, swift, yet apparently unhasting pace which so often
                    distinguishes the desert-born savage, and so seldom gives grace to the
                    deportment of the cultured citizen. It was a mild night in May; the weather was
                    unusually fine and warm; the skies were undarkened by any mist or cloud, and the
                    stars shone forth with as much brilliancy as though the city lying under their
                    immediate ken had been the smiling fairy, Florence, instead of the brooding
                    giant, London. Now and again El-Râmi raised his eyes to the sparkling belt of
                    Orion, which glittered aloft with a lustre that is seldom seen in the hazy
                    English air;—he was thinking his own thoughts, and the fact that there were many
                    passers to and fro in the streets besides himself did not appear to disturb him
                    in the least, for he strode through their ranks, without any hurry or jostling,
                    as if he alone existed, and they were but shadows.
                "What fools are the majority of men!" he mused. "How easy to gull them, and  how willing they are to be gulled! How that
                    silly young Vaughan marvelled at my prophecy of his marriage!—as if it were not
                    as easy to foretell as that two and two inevitably make four! Given the
                    characters of people in the same way that you give figures, and you are certain
                    to arrive at a sum-total of them in time. How simple the process of calculation
                    as to Vaughan's matrimonial prospects! Here are the set of numerals I employed:
                    Two nights ago I heard Lord Melthorpe say he meant to marry his cousin Fred to
                    Miss Chester, daughter of Jabez Chester, of New York,—Miss Chester herself
                    entered the room a few minutes later on, and I saw the sort of young woman she
                    was. To-night at the theatre I see her again;—in an opposite box, well back in
                    shadow, I perceive Lord Melthorpe. Young Vaughan, whose character I know to be
                    of such weakness that it can be moulded whichever way a stronger will turns it,
                    sits close behind me; and I proceed to make the little sum-total. Given Lord
                    Melthorpe, with a determination that resembles the obstinacy of a pig rather
                    than of a man;  Frederick Vaughan, with no
                    determination at all; and the little Chester girl, with her heart set on an
                    English title, even though it only be that of a baronet, and the marriage is
                    certain. What was uncertain was the possibility of their all
                    meeting to-night; but they were all there, and I counted that possibility as the
                    fraction over,—there is always a fraction over in character-sums; it stands as
                    Providence or Fate, and must always be allowed for. I chanced it,—and won. I
                    always do win in these things,—these ridiculous trifles of calculation, which
                    are actually accepted as prophetic utterances by people who never will think out
                    anything for themselves. Good heavens! what a monster-burden of crass ignorance
                    and wilful stupidity this poor planet has groaned under ever since it was hurled
                    into space! Immense!—incalculable! And for what purpose? For what progress? For
                    what end?"
                He stopped a moment; he had walked from the Strand up through Piccadilly, and was
                    now close to Hyde Park. Taking out his watch, he glanced at the time—it was
                    close upon midnight. All at once he was  struck
                    fiercely from behind, and the watch he held was snatched from his hand by a man
                    who had no sooner committed the theft than he uttered a loud cry, and remained
                    inert and motionless. El-Râmi turned quietly round, and surveyed him.
                "Well, my friend?" he inquired blandly—"What did you do that for?"
                The fellow stared about him vaguely, but seemed unable to answer,—his arm was
                    stiffly outstretched, and the watch was clutched fast within his palm.
                "You had better give that little piece of property back to me," went on El-Râmi,
                    coldly smiling,—and, stepping close up to his assailant, he undid the closed
                    fingers one by one, and, removing the watch, restored it to his own pocket. The
                    thief's arm at the same moment fell limply at his side; but he remained where he
                    was, trembling violently as though seized with a sudden ague-fit.
                "You would find it an inconvenient thing to have about you, I assure you. Stolen
                    goods are always more or less of a bore, I believe. You seem rather discomposed?
                    Ah! you have had a little shock,—that's all. 
                    You've heard of torpedos, I dare say? Well, in this scientific age of ours,
                    there are human torpedos going about; and I am one of them. It is necessary to
                    be careful whom you touch nowadays,—it really is, you know! You will be better
                    presently—take time!"
                He spoke banteringly, observing the thief meanwhile with the most curious air, as
                    though he were some peculiar specimen of beetle or frog. The wretched man's
                    features worked convulsively, and he made a gesture of appeal:
                "Yer won't 'ave me took up!" he muttered hoarsely. "I'm starvin'!"
                "No, no!" said El-Râmi persuasively—"you are nothing of the sort. Do not tell
                    lies, my friend; that is a great mistake—as great a mistake as thieving. Both
                    things, as you practise them, will put you to no end of trouble,—and to avoid
                    trouble is the chief aim of modern life. You are not starving—you are as plump
                    as a rabbit,"—and, with a dexterous touch, he threw up the man's loose
                    shirt-sleeve, and displayed the full, firm flesh of the strong and sinewy arm
                    beneath. "You have had more meat in you to-day than I  can manage in a week; you will do very well. You are
                    a professional thief,—a sort of—lawyer, shall we say? Only, instead of
                    protesting the right you have to live, politely by means of documents and
                    red-tape, you assert it roughly by stealing a watch. It's very frank
                    conduct,—but it is not civil; and, in the present state of ethics, it doesn't
                    pay—it really doesn't. I'm afraid I'm boring you! You feel better?
                    Then—good-evening!"
                He was about to resume his walk, when the now-recovered rough took a hasty step
                    towards him.
                "I wanted to knock yer down!" he began.
                "I know you did,"—returned El-Râmi composedly. "Well—would you like to try
                    again?"
                The man stared at him, half in amazement, half in fear.
                "Yer see," he went on, "yer pulled out yer watch, and it was all jools and
                    sparkles—"
                "And it was a glittering temptation"—finished El-Râmi. "I see. I had no business
                    to pull it out; I grant it; but, being  pulled
                    out, you had no business to want it. We were both wrong; let us both endeavour
                    to be wiser in future. Good-night!"
                "Well, I'm blowed if ye're not a rum un, and an orful un!" ejaculated the man,
                    who had certainly received a fright, and was still nervous from the effects of
                    it. "Blowed if he ain't the rummest card!"
                But the "rummest card" heard none of these observations. He crossed the road, and
                    went on his way serenely, taking up the thread of his interrupted musings as
                    though nothing had occurred.
                "Fools—fools all!" he murmured. "Thieves steal, murderers slay, labourers toil,
                    and all men and women lust and live and die—to what purpose? For what progress?
                    For what end? Destruction or new life? Heaven or hell? Wisdom or caprice?
                    Kindness or cruelty? God or the Devil? Which? If I knew that I should be
                    wise,—but till I know, I am but a fool also,—a fool among fools,
                    fooled by a Fate whose secret I mean to discover and conquer—and defy!"
                He paused,—and, drawing a long, deep  breath,
                    raised his eyes to the stars once more. His lips moved as though he repeated
                    inwardly some vow or prayer, then he proceeded at a quicker pace, and stopped no
                    more till he reached his destination, which was a small, quiet and unfashionable
                    square off Sloane Street. Here he made his way to an unpretentious-looking
                    little house, semi-detached, and one of a row of similar buildings; the only
                    particularly distinctive mark about it being a heavy and massively-carved
                    ancient oaken door, which opened easily at the turn of his latch-key, and closed
                    after him without the slightest sound as he entered.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                A DIM red light burned in the narrow hall, just
                    sufficient to enable him to see the wooden peg on which he was accustomed to
                    hang his hat and overcoat,—and as soon as he had divested himself of his outdoor
                    garb, he extinguished even that faint glimmer of radiance. Opening a side-door,
                    he entered his own room—a picturesque apartment running from east to west, the
                    full length of the house. From its appearance it had evidently once served as
                    drawing-room and dining-room, with folding-doors between; but the folding-doors
                    had been dispensed with, and the place they had occupied was now draped with
                    heavy amber silk. This silk seemed to be of some peculiar and costly make, for
                    it sparkled with iridescent gleams of silver like diamond-dust when El-Râmi  turned on the electric burner, which, in the
                    form of a large flower, depended from the ceiling by quaintly-worked silver
                    chains, and was connected by a fine wire with a shaded reading-lamp on the
                    table. There was not much of either beauty or value in the room,—yet without
                    being at all luxurious, it suggested luxury. The few chairs were of the most
                    ordinary make, all save one, which was of finely carved ebony, and was piled
                    with silk cushions of amber and red,—the table was of plain painted deal,
                    covered with a dark woollen cloth worked in and out with threads of gold,—there
                    were a few geometrical instruments about,—a large pair of globes,—a rack on the
                    wall stocked with weapons for the art of fence,—and one large book-case full of
                    books. An ebony-cased pianette occupied one corner,—and on a small side-table
                    stood a heavily-made oaken chest, brass-bound and double-locked. The furniture
                    was completed by a plain camp-bedstead such as soldiers use, which at the
                    present moment was partly folded up and almost hidden from view by a rough
                    bearskin thrown carelessly across it.
                
                El-Râmi sat down in the big ebony chair and looked at a pile of letters lying on
                    his writing-table. They were from all sorts of persons,—princes, statesmen,
                    diplomats, financiers, and artists in all the professions,—he recognised the
                    handwriting on some of the envelopes, and his brows contracted in a frown as he
                    tossed them aside still unopened.
                "They must wait," he said half aloud. "Curious that it is impossible for a man to
                    be original without attracting around him a set of unoriginal minds, as though
                    he were a honey-pot and they the flies! Who would believe that I, poor in
                    worldly goods, and living in more or less obscurity, should, without any wish of
                    my own, be in touch with kings?—should know the last new policy of governments
                    before it is made ripe for public declaration?—should hold the secrets of "my
                    lord" and "my lady" apart from each other's cognisance, and be able to amuse
                    myself with their little ridiculous matrimonial differences, as though they were
                    puppets playing their parts for use at a marionette show! I do not ask these
                    people to confide in me,—I do not want them to 
                    seek me out,—and yet the cry is, "still they come!"—and the attributes of my own
                    nature are such, that like a magnet, I attract, and so am never left in peace.
                    Yet perhaps it is well it should be thus,—I need the external
                    distraction,—otherwise my mind would be too much like a bent bow,—fixed on the
                    one centre,—the Great Secret,—and its powers might fail me at the last. But
                    no!—failure is impossible now. Steeled against love,—hate,—and all the merely
                    earthly passions of mankind as I am,—I must succeed—and I will!"
                He leaned his head on one hand, and seemed to suddenly concentrate his thoughts
                    on one particular subject,—his eyes dilated and grew luridly brilliant as though
                    sparks of fire burnt behind them. He had not sat thus for more than a couple of
                    minutes, when the door opened gently, and a beautiful youth clad in a loose
                    white tunic and vest of Eastern fashion, made his appearance, and standing
                    silently on the threshold seemed to wait for some command.
                "So, Féraz! you heard my summons?" said El-Râmi gently.
                
                "I heard my brother speak,"—responded Féraz in a low melodious voice that had a
                    singularly dreamy far-away tone within it—"Through a wall of cloud and silence
                    his beloved accents fell like music on my ears;—he called me and I came."
                And sighing lightly, he folded his arms cross-wise on his breast and stood erect
                    and immovable, looking like some fine statue just endowed by magic with the
                    flush of life. He resembled El-Râmi in features, but was fairer-skinned,—his
                    eyes were softer and more femininely lovely,—his hair, black as night, clustered
                    in thick curls over his brow, and his figure, straight as a young palm-tree, was
                    a perfect model of strength united with grace. But just now he had a strangely
                    absorbed air,—his eyes, though they were intently fixed on El-Râmi's face,
                    looked like the eyes of a sleep-walker, so dreamy were they while wide-open,—and
                    as he spoke he smiled vaguely as one who hears delicious singing afar off.
                El-Râmi studied him intently for a minute or two,—then, removing his gaze,
                    pressed a small silver hand-bell at his side. It rang sharply out on the
                    silence.
                
                "Féraz!"
                Féraz started,—rubbed his eyes,—glanced about him, and then sprang towards his
                    brother with quite a new expression,—one of grace, eagerness and animation, that
                    intensified his beauty and made him still more worthy the admiration of a
                    painter or a sculptor.
                "El-Râmi! at last! How late you are! I waited for you long—and then I slept. I am
                    sorry! But you called me in the usual way, I suppose?—and I did not fail you? Ah
                    no! I should come to you if I were dead!"
                He dropped on one knee, and raised El-Râmi's hand caressingly to his lips.
                "Where have you been all the evening?" he went on. "I have missed you greatly—the
                    house is so silent."
                El-Râmi touched his clustering curls tenderly.
                "You could have made music in it with your lute and voice, Féraz, had you
                    chosen," he said. "As for me, I went to see "Hamlet."'
                "Oh, why did you go?" demanded Féraz 
                    impetuously. "I would not see it—no! not for worlds! Such poetry
                    must needs be spoilt by men's mouthing of it,—it is better to read it, to think
                    it, to feel it,—and so one actually sees it,—best."
                "You talk like a poet,"—said El-Râmi indulgently. "You are not much more than a
                    boy, and you think the thoughts of youth. Have you any supper ready for me?"
                Féraz smiled and sprang up, left the room, and returned in a few minutes with a
                    daintily arranged tray of refreshments, which he set before his brother with all
                    the respect and humility of a well-trained domestic in attendance on his
                    master.
                "You have supped?" El-Râmi asked, as he poured out wine from the delicately
                    shaped Italian flask beside him.
                Féraz nodded.
                "Yes. Zaroba supped with me. But she was cross to-night—she had nothing to
                    say."
                El-Râmi smiled. "That is unusual!"
                Féraz went on. "There have been many people here,—they all wanted to see you.
                    They have left their cards. Some of them  asked
                    me my name and who I was. I said I was your servant—but they would not believe
                    me. There were great folks among them—they came in big carriages with prancing
                    horses. Have you seen their names?"
                "Not I."
                "Ah, you are so indifferent," said Féraz gaily,—he had now quite lost his dreamy
                    and abstracted look, and talked on in an eager boyish way that suited his
                    years,—he was barely twenty. "You are so bent on great thoughts that you cannot
                    see little things. But these dukes and earls who come to visit you do not
                    consider themselves little,—not they!"
                "Yet many of them are the least among little men," said El-Râmi with a touch of
                    scorn in his mellow accents. "Dowered with great historic names which they
                    almost despise, they do their best to drag the memory of their ancient lineage
                    into dishonour by vulgar passions, low tastes, and a scorn as well as lack of
                    true intelligence. Let us not talk of them. The English aristocracy was once a
                    magnificent tree, but  its broad boughs are
                    fallen,—lopped off and turned into saleable timber,—and there is but a decaying
                    stump of it left. And so Zaroba said nothing to you to-night?"
                "Scarce a word. She was very sullen. She bade me tell you all was well,—that is
                    her usual formula. I do not understand it;—what is it that should be well or
                    ill? You never explain your mystery!"
                He smiled, but there was a vivid curiosity in his fine eyes,—he looked as if he
                    would have asked more had he dared to do so.
                El-Râmi evaded his questioning glance. "Speak of yourself," he said. "Did you
                    wander at all into your Dreamland today?"
                "I was there when you called me," replied Féraz quickly. "I saw my home,—its
                    trees and flowers,—I listened to the ripple of its fountains and streams. It is
                    harvest-time there, do you know? I heard the reapers singing as they carried
                    home the sheaves."
                His brother surveyed him with a fixed and wondering scrutiny.
                "How absolute you are in your faith!" he said half enviously. "You
                        think it is your  home,—but it
                    is only an idea after all,—an idea, born of a vision."
                "Does a mere visionary idea engender love and longing?" exclaimed Féraz
                    impetuously. "Oh no, El-Râmi,—it cannot do so! I know the land I
                    see so often in what you call a "dream,"—its mountains are familiar to me,—its
                    people are my people; yes!—I am remembered there, and so are you,—we dwelt there
                    once,—we shall dwell there again. It is your home as well as mine,—that bright
                    and far-off star where there is no death but only sleep,—why were we exiled from
                    our happiness, El-Râmi? Can your wisdom tell?"
                "I know nothing of what you say," returned El-Râmi brusquely. "As I told you, you
                    talk like a poet,—harsher men than I, would add, like a madman. You imagine you
                    were born or came into being in a different planet to this,—that you lived
                    there,—that you were exiled from thence by some mysterious doom, and were
                    condemned to pass into human existence here;—well, I repeat, Féraz—this is your
                    own fancy,—the result of the strange double life  you lead, which is not by my will or teaching. I believe only in what can be
                    proved—and this that you tell me is beyond all proof."
                "And yet," said Féraz meditatively,—"though I cannot reason it out, I am sure of
                    what I feel. My "dream" is more life-like than life itself,—and as for my
                    beloved people yonder, I tell you I have heard them singing the
                    harvest-home."
                And with a quick soft step, he went to the piano, opened it and began to play.
                    EI-Râmi leaned back in his chair mute and absorbed,—did ever common keyed
                    instrument give forth such enchanting sounds? Was ever written music known that
                    could, when performed, utter such divine and dulcet eloquence? There was nothing
                    earthly in the tune,—it seemed to glide from under the player's fingers like a
                    caress upon the air,—and an involuntary sigh broke from El-Râmi's lips as he
                    listened. Féraz heard that sigh, and turned round smiling.
                "Is there not something familiar in the strain?" he asked. "Do you not see them
                    all, so fair and light and lithe of limb, coming over the fields homewards as
                    the red Ring  burns low in the western sky?
                    Surely—surely you remember?"
                A slight shudder shook El-Râmi's frame,—he pressed his hands over his eyes, and
                    seemed to collect himself by a strong effort,—then walking over to the piano, he
                    took his young brother's hands from the keys and held them for a moment against
                    his breast.
                "Keep your illusions"—he said in a low voice that trembled slightly. "Keep
                    them,—and your faith,—together. It is for you to dream, and for me to prove.
                    Mine is the hardest lot. There may be truth in your dreams,—there may be
                    deception in my proofs—Heaven only knows! Were you not of my own blood, and
                    dearer to me than most human things, I should, like every scientist worthy of
                    the name, strive to break off your spiritual pinions and make of you a mere
                    earth-grub even as most of us are made,—but I cannot do it,—I have not the heart
                    to do it,—and if I had the heart"—he paused a moment,—then went on slowly—"I
                    have not the power. Good-night!"
                He left the room abruptly without another  word
                    or look,—and the beautiful young Féraz gazed after his retreating figure
                    doubtfully and with something of wondering regret. Was it worth while, he
                    thought, to be so wise, if wisdom made one at times so sad?—was it well to
                    sacrifice Faith for Fact, when Faith was so warm and Fact so cold? Was it better
                    to be a dreamer of things possible, or a worker-out of things positive? And how
                    much was positive after all? and how much possible? He balanced the question
                    lightly with himself,—it was like a discord in the music of his mind, and
                    disturbed his peace. He soon dismissed the jarring thought, however, and closing
                    the piano, glanced round the room to make sure that nothing more was required
                    for his brother's service or comfort that night, and then he went away to resume
                    his interrupted slumbers,—perchance to take up the chorus of his "people"
                    singing in what he deemed his native star.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                EL-RâMI meanwhile slowly ascended the stairs to the
                    first floor, and there on the narrow landing paused, listening. There was not a
                    sound in the house,—the delicious music of the strange "harvest-song" had
                    ceased, though to El-Râmi's ears there still seemed to be a throb of its melody
                    in the air, like perfume left from the carrying by of flowers. And with this
                    vague impression upon him he listened,—listened as it were to the deep silence;
                    and as he stood in this attentive attitude, his eyes rested on a closed door
                    opposite to him,—a door which might, if taken off its hinges and exhibited at
                    some museum, have carried away the palm for perfection in panel-painting. It was
                    so designed as to resemble a fine trellis-work,  hung with pale clambering roses and purple passion-flowers,—on the upper half
                    among the blossoms sat a meditative cupid, pressing a bud against his pouting
                    lips, while below him, stretched in full-length desolation on a bent bough, his
                    twin brother wept childishly over the piteous fate of a butterfly that lay dead
                    in his curled pink palm. El-Râmi stared so long and persistently at the pretty
                    picture that it might have been imagined he was looking at it for the first time
                    and was absorbed in admiration, but truth to tell he scarcely saw it. His
                    thoughts were penetrating beyond all painted semblances of beauty,—and,—as in
                    the case of his young brother Féraz,—those thoughts were speedily answered. A
                    key turned in the lock,—the door opened, and a tall old woman, bronze-skinned,
                    black-eyed, withered, uncomely yet imposing of aspect, stood in the
                    aperture.
                "Enter, El-Râmi!" she said in a low yet harsh voice—"The hour is late,—but when
                    did ever the lateness of hours change or deter your sovereign will! Yet truly as
                    God liveth, it is hard that I should seldom be permitted to pass a night in
                    peace!"
                
                El-Râmi smiled indifferently, but made no reply, as it was useless to answer
                    Zaroba. She was stone deaf, and therefore not in a condition to be argued with.
                    She preceded him into a small ante-room, provided with no other furniture than a
                    table and chair;—one entire side of the wall however was hung with a magnificent
                    curtain of purple velvet bordered in gold. On the table were a slate and pencil,
                    and these implements El-Râmi at once drew towards him.
                "Has there been any change to-day?" he wrote.
                Zaroba read the words.
                "None," she replied.
                "She has not moved?"
                "Not a finger."
                He paused, pencil in hand,—then he wrote—
                "You are ill-tempered. You have your dark humour upon you."
                Zaroba's eyes flashed, and she threw up her skinny hands with a wrathful
                    gesture.
                "Dark humour!" she cried in accents that were almost shrill—"Ay!—and if it be so,
                    El-Râmi, what is my humour to you? Am  I
                    anything more to you than a cipher,—a mere slave? What have the thoughts of a
                    foolish woman, bent with years and close to the dark gateways of the tomb, to do
                    with one who deems himself all wisdom? What are the feelings of a wretched
                    perishable piece of flesh and blood to a self-centred god and opponent of Nature
                    like El-Râmi-Zarânos!" She laughed bitterly. "Pay no heed to me, great Master of
                    the Fates invisible!—superb controller of the thoughts of men!—pay no heed to
                    Zaroba's "dark humours" as you call them. Zaroba has no wings to soar with—she
                    is old and feeble, and aches at the heart with a burden of unshed tears,—she
                    would fain have been content with this low earth whereon to tread in safety,—she
                    would fain have been happy with common joys,—but these are debarred her, and her
                    lot is like that of many a better woman,—to sit solitary among the ashes of dead
                    days and know herself desolate!"
                She dropped her arms as suddenly as she had raised them. El-Râmi surveyed her
                    with a touch of derision, and wrote again on the slate.
                
                "I thought you loved your charge?"
                Zaroba read, and drew herself up proudly, looking almost as dignified as El-Râmi
                    himself.
                "Does one love a statue?" she demanded. "Shall I caress a picture? Shall I rain
                    tears or kisses over the mere semblance of a life that does not live,—shall I
                    fondle hands that never return my clasp? Love! Love is in my heart—yes! like a
                    shut-up fire in a tomb,—but you hold the key, El-Râmi, and the flame dies for
                    want of air."
                He shrugged his shoulders, and putting the pencil aside, wrote no more. Moving
                    towards the velvet curtain that draped the one side of the room he made an
                    imperious sign. Zaroba, obeying the gesture mechanically and at once, drew a
                    small pulley, by means of which the rich soft folds of stuff parted noiselessly
                    asunder, displaying such a wonderful interior of luxury and loveliness as seemed
                    for the moment almost unreal. The apartment opened to view was lofty and
                    perfectly circular in shape, and was hung from top to bottom with silken
                    hangings of royal purple embroidered all over with  curious arabesque patterns in gold. The same rich
                    material was caught up from the edges of the ceiling to the centre, like the
                    drapery of a pavilion or tent, and was there festooned with golden fringes and
                    tassels. From out the midst of this warm mass of glistening colour, swung a gold
                    lamp which shed its light through amber-hued crystal,—while the floor below was
                    carpeted with the thickest velvet pile, the design being pale purple pansies on
                    a darker ground of the same almost neutral tint. A specimen of everything
                    beautiful, rare and costly seemed to have found its way into this one room, from
                    the exquisitely wrought ivory figure of a Psyche on her pedestal, to the tall
                    vase of Venetian crystal which held lightly up to view, dozens of magnificent
                    roses that seemed born of full midsummer, though as yet in the capricious
                    English climate, it was scarcely spring. And all the beauty, all the grace, all
                    the evidences of perfect taste, art, care and forethought, were gathered
                    together round one centre,—one unseeing, unresponsive centre,—the figure of a
                    sleeping girl. Pillowed on a raised couch such as  might have served a queen for costliness, she lay
                    fast bound in slumber,—a matchless piece of loveliness,—stirless as
                    marble,—wondrous as the ideal of a poet's dream. Her delicate form was draped
                    loosely in a robe of purest white, arranged so as to suggest rather than conceal
                    its exquisite outline,—a silk coverlet was thrown lightly across her feet, and
                    her head rested on cushions of the softest, snowiest satin. Her exceedingly
                    small white hands were crossed upon her breast over a curious jewel,—a sort of
                    giant ruby cut in the shape of a star, which scintillated with a thousand
                    sparkles in the light, and coloured the under-tips of her fingers with a hue
                    like wine, and her hair, which was of extraordinary length and beauty, almost
                    clothed her body down to the knee, as with a mantle of shimmering gold. To say
                    merely that she was lovely would scarcely describe her,—for the loveliness that
                    is generally understood as such, was here so entirely surpassed and intensified
                    that it would be difficult if not impossible to express its charm. Her face had
                    the usual attributes of what might be deemed perfection,—that  is, the lines were purely oval,—the features
                    delicate, the skin most transparently fair, the lips a dewy red, and the fringes
                    of the closed eyes were long, dark and delicately upcurled;—but this was not
                    all. There was something else,—something quite undefinable, that gave a singular
                    glow and radiance to the whole countenance, and suggested the burning of a light
                    through alabaster,—a creeping of some subtle fire through the veins which made
                    the fair body seem the mere reflection of some greater fairness within. If those
                    eyes were to open, one thought, how wonderful their lustre must needs be!—if
                    that perfect figure rose up and moved, what a harmony would walk the world in
                    maiden shape!—and yet,—watching that hushed repose, that scarcely perceptible
                    breathing, it seemed more than certain that she would never rise,—never tread
                    earthly soil in common with earth's creatures,—never be more than what she
                    seemed,—a human flower, gathered and set apart—for whom? For God's love? or
                    Man's pleasure? Either, neither, or both?
                El-Râmi entered the rich apartment  followed by
                    Zaroba, and stood by the couch for some minutes in silence. Whatever his
                    thoughts were, his face gave no clue to them,—his features being as impassive as
                    though cast in bronze. Zaroba watched him curiously, her wrinkled visage
                    expressive of some strongly-suppressed passion. The sleeping girl stirred and
                    smiled in her sleep,—a smile that brightened her countenance as much as if a
                    sudden glory had circled it with a halo.
                "Ay, she lives for you!" said Zaroba. "And she grows fairer every day. She is the
                    sun, and you the snow. But the snow is bound to melt in due season,—and even
                    you, El-Râmi-Zarânos, will hardly baffle the laws of Nature!"
                El-Râmi turned upon her with a fierce mute gesture that had something of the
                    terrible in it,—she shrank from the cold glance of his intense eyes, and in
                    obedience to an imperative wave of his hand moved away to a further corner of
                    the room, where, crouching down upon the floor, she took up a quaint implement
                    of work, a carved triangular frame of ebony, with which she  busied herself, drawing glittering threads in and out
                    of it with marvellous speed and dexterity. She made a weird picture there,
                    squatted on the ground in her yellow cotton draperies, her rough gray hair
                    gleaming like spun silk in the light, and the shining threadwork in her withered
                    hands. El-Râmi looked at her sitting thus, and was suddenly moved with
                    compassion—she was old and sad,—poor Zaroba! He went up to her where she
                    crouched, and stood above her, his ardent fiery eyes seeming to gather all their
                    wonderful lustre into one long, earnest and pitiful regard. Her work fell from
                    her hands, and as she met that burning gaze, a vague smile parted her lips,—her
                    frowning features smoothed themselves into an expression of mingled placidity
                    and peace.
                "Desolate Zaroba!" said El-Râmi slowly lifting his hands. "Widowed and solitary
                    soul! Deaf to the outer noises of the world, let the ears of thy spirit be open
                    to my voice—and hear thou all the music of the past! Lo, the bygone years return
                    to thee and picture themselves afresh upon thy tired brain!—again thou dost
                    listen to the voices  of thy children at
                    play,—the wild Arabian desert spreads out before thee in the sun like a sea of
                    gold,—the tall palms lift themselves against the burning sky—the tent is pitched
                    by the cool spring of fresh water,—and thy savage mate, wearied out with long
                    travel, sleeps, pillowed on thy breast. Thou art young again, Zaroba!—young,
                    fair and beloved!—be happy so! Dream and rest!"
                As he spoke he took the aged woman's unresisting hands and laid her gently,
                    gently, by gradual degrees down in a recumbent posture, and placing a cushion
                    under her head watched her for a few seconds.
                "By Heaven!" he muttered, as he heard her regular breathing and noted the
                    perfectly composed expression of her face. "Are dreams after all the only
                    certain joys of life? A poet's fancies,—a painter's visions—the cloud-castles of
                    a boy's imaginings—all dreams!—and only such dreamers can be called happy.
                    Neither Fate nor Fortune can destroy their pleasure,—they make sport of kings
                    and hold great nations as the merest toys of thought—oh sublime audacity of
                    Vision! Would I could dream so!—or  rather,
                    would I could prove my dreams not dreams at all, but the reflections of the
                    absolute Real! "Hamlet" again! 
                        "To die—to sleep—
                        To sleep, perchance to dream—ay! there's the rub!"
                     Imagine it!—to die and dream of Heaven—or Hell,—and all the
                    while if there should be no reality in either!"
                With one more glance at the now soundly slumbering Zaroba, he went back to the
                    couch, and gazed long and earnestly at the exquisite maiden there reclined,—then
                    bending over her, he took her small fair left hand in his own, pressing his
                    fingers hard round the delicate wrist.
                "Lilith!—Lilith!" he said in low, yet commanding accents. "Lilith!—Speak to me! I
                    am here!"
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                DEEP silence followed his invocation,—a silence he
                    seemed to expect and be prepared for. Looking at a silver timepiece on a bracket
                    above the couch, he mentally counted slowly a hundred beats,—then pressing the
                    fragile wrist he held still more firmly between his fingers, he touched with his
                    other hand the girl's brow, just above her closed eyes. A faint quiver ran
                    through the delicate body,—he quickly drew back and spoke again.
                "Lilith! Where are you?"
                The sweet lips parted, and a voice soft as whispered music responded—
                "I am here!"
                "Is all well with you?"
                "All is well!"
                
                And a smile irradiated the fair face with such a light as to suggest that the
                    eyes must have opened,—but no!—they were fast shut.
                El-Râmi resumed his strange interrogation.
                "Lilith! What do you see?"
                There was a moment's pause,—then came the slow response—
                "Many things,—things beautiful and wonderful. But you are not among them. I hear
                    your voice and I obey it, but I cannot see you—I have never seen you."
                El-Râmi sighed, and pressed more closely the soft small hand within his own.
                "Where have you been?"
                "Where my pleasure led me"—came the answer in a sleepy yet joyous tone—"My
                    pleasure and—your will."
                El-Râmi started, but immediately controlled himself, for Lilith stirred and threw
                    her other arm indolently behind her head, leaving the great ruby on her breast
                    flashingly exposed to view.
                "Away, away, far, far away!" she said, and her accents sounded like subdued
                    singing—"Beyond,—in those regions whither I 
                    was sent—beyond—" her voice stopped and trailed off into drowsy
                    murmurings—"beyond—Sirius—I saw—"
                She ceased, and smiled—some happy thought seemed to have rendered her mute.
                El-Râmi waited a moment, then took up her broken speech.
                "Far beyond Sirius you saw—what?"
                Moving, she pillowed her cheek upon her hand, and turned more fully round towards
                    him.
                "I saw a bright new world"—she said, now speaking quite clearly and
                    connectedly—"A royal world of worlds; an undiscovered Star. There were giant
                    oceans in it,—the noise of many waters was heard throughout the land,—and there
                    were great cities marvellously built upon the sea. I saw their pinnacles of
                    white and gold-spires of coral, and gates that were studded with pearl,—flags
                    waved and music sounded, and two great Suns gave double light from heaven. I saw
                    many thousands of people—they were beautiful and happy—they sang and danced and
                    gave thanks in the everlasting sunshine, and knelt in crowds upon  their wide and fruitful fields to thank the Giver of
                    life immortal."
                "Life immortal!" repeated El-Râmi,—"Do not these people die, even as we?"
                A pained look, as of wonder or regret, knitted the girl's fair brows.
                "There is no death—neither here nor there"—she said steadily—"I have told you
                    this so often, yet you will not believe. Always you bid me seek for death,—I
                    have looked, but cannot find it."
                She sighed, and El-Râmi echoed the sigh.
                "I wish"—and her accents sounded plaintively—"I wish that I could see you! There
                    is some cloud between us. I hear your voice and I obey it, but I cannot see who
                    it is that calls me."
                El-Râmi paid no heed to these dove-like murmurings,—moreover, he seemed to have
                    no eyes for the wondrous beauty of the creature who lay thus tranced and in his
                    power,—set on his one object, the attainment of a supernatural knowledge, he
                    looked as pitiless and impervious to all charm as any Grand Inquisitor of old
                    Spain.
                
                "Speak of yourself and not of me"—he said authoritatively,—"How can you say there
                    is no death?"
                "I speak truth. There is none."
                "Not even here?"
                "Not anywhere."
                "O daughter of vision, where are the eyes of your spirit!" demanded El-Râmi
                    angrily—"Search again and see! Why should all Nature arm itself against Death if
                    there be no death?"
                "You are harsh,"—said Lilith sorrowfully —"Should I tell you what is not true? If
                    I would, I cannot. There is no death—there is only change. Beyond Sirius, they
                    sleep."
                El-Râmi waited; but she had paused again.
                "Go on"—he said—"They sleep—why and when?"
                "When they are weary"—responded Lilith. "When all is done that they can do, and
                    when they need rest, they sleep, and in their sleep they change;—the change
                    is—
                She ceased.
                
                "The change is death,"—said El-Râmi positively,—"for death is everywhere."
                "Not so!" replied Lilith quickly, and in a ringing tone of clarion-like
                    sweetness. "The change is life,—for Life is everywhere!"
                There ensued a silence. The girl turned away, and bringing her hand slowly down
                    from behind her head, laid it again upon her breast over the burning ruby gem.
                    El-Râmi bent above her closely.
                "You are dreaming, Lilith,"—he said as though he would force her to own something
                    against her will. "You speak unwisely and at random."
                Still silence.
                "Lilith!—Lilith!" he called.
                No answer;—only the lovely tints of her complexion, the smile on her lips and the
                    tranquil heaving of her rounded bosom indicated that she lived.
                "Gone!" and El-Râmi's brow clouded; he laid back the little hand he held in its
                    former position and looked at the girl long and steadily—"And so firm in her
                    assertion!—as foolish an assertion as any of the  fancies of Féraz. No death?—Nay—as well say no life. She has not fathomed the
                    secret of our passing hence; no, not though her flight has outreached the realm
                    of Sirius. 
                        "'But that the dread of something after death,
                        The undiscovered country from whose bourne
                        No traveller returns, puzzles the will."
                     Ay, puzzles the will and confounds it! But must I be baffled then?—or is it
                    my own fault that I cannot believe? Is it truly her spirit that
                    speaks to me?—or is it my own brain acting upon hers in a state of trance? If it
                    be the latter, why should she declare things that I never dream of, and which my
                    reason does not accept as possible? And if it is indeed her Soul, or the
                    ethereal Essence of her that thus soars at periodic intervals of liberty into
                    the Unseen, how is it that she never comprehends Death or Pain? Is her vision
                    limited only to behold harmonious systems moving to a sound of joy?"
                And seized by a sudden resolution, he caught both the hands of the tranced girl
                    and held them in his own, the while he fixed his eyes upon her quiet face with a
                    glance that seemed to shoot forth flame.
                
                "Lilith! Lilith! By the force of my will and mastery over thy life, I bid thee
                    return to me! O flitting spirit, ever bent on errands of pleasure, reveal to me
                    the secrets of pain! Come back, Lilith! I call thee—come!"
                A violent shudder shook the beautiful reposeful figure,—the smile faded from her
                    lips, and she heaved a profound sigh.
                "I am here!"
                "Listen to my bidding!" said El-Râmi, in measured accents that sounded almost
                    cruel. "As you have soared to heights ineffable, even so descend to lowest
                    depths of desolation! Understand and seek out sorrow,—pierce to the root of
                    suffering,-explain the cause of unavailing agony! These things exist. Here in
                    this planet of which you know nothing save my voice,—here, if nowhere else in
                    the wide Universe, we gain our bread with bitterness and drink our wine with
                    tears. Solve me the mystery of Pain,—of Injustice,—of an innocent child's
                    anguish on its death-bed,—ay! though you tell me there is no death!—of a good
                    man's ruin,—of an evil woman's triumph,—of 
                    despair—of self-slaughter,—of all the horrors upon horrors piled, which make up
                    this world's present life. Listen, O too ecstatic and believing Spirit!—we have
                    a legend here that a God lives,—a wise all-loving God,—and He, this wise and
                    loving one, has out of His great bounty invented for the torture of his
                    creatures,—HELL! Find out this Hell, Lilith!—Prove it!—bring the plan of its
                    existence back to me. Go,—bring me news of devils,—and suffer, if spirits
                        can suffer, in the unmitigated sufferings of others! Take my
                    command and go hence,—find out God's Hell!—so shall we afterwards know the worth
                    of Heaven!"
                He spoke rapidly,—impetuously,—passionately;—and now he allowed the girl's hands
                    to fall suddenly from his clasp. She moaned a little,—and instead of folding
                    them one over the other as before, raised them palm to palm in an attitude of
                    prayer. The colour faded entirely from her face,—but an expression of the
                    calmest, grandest wisdom, serenity and compassion came over her features as of a
                    saint prepared for martyrdom. Her breathing grew fainter and  fainter till it was scarcely perceptible,—and her
                    lips parted in a short sobbing sigh,—then they moved and whispered something.
                    El-Râmi stooped over her more closely.
                "What is it?" he asked eagerly—"what did you say?"
                "Nothing ... only ... farewell!" and the faint tone stirred the silence like the
                    last sad echo of a song—"And yet ... once more ... farewell!"
                He drew back, and observed her intently. She now looked like a recumbent statue,
                    with those upraised hands of hers so white and small and delicate,—and El-Râmi
                    remembered that he must keep the machine of the Body living, if he desired to
                    receive through its medium the messages of the Spirit. Taking a small phial from
                    his breast, together with the necessary surgeon's instrument used for such
                    purposes, he pricked the rounded arm nearest to him, and carefully injected into
                    the veins a small quantity of a strange sparkling fluid which gave out a
                    curiously sweet and pungent odour;—as he did this, the lifted hands fell gently
                    into their original position, crossed over the ruby star.  The breathing grew steadier and lighter,—the lips
                    took fresh colour,—and El-Râmi watched the effect with absorbed interest and
                    attention.
                "One might surely preserve her body so for ever," he mused half aloud. "The
                    tissues renewed,—the blood re-organized,—the whole system completely nourished
                    with absolute purity; and not a morsel of what is considered food, which
                    contains so much organic mischief, allowed to enter that exquisitely beautiful
                    mechanism, which exhales all waste upon the air through the pores of the skin as
                    naturally as a flower exhales perfume through its leaves. A wonderful
                    discovery!—if all men knew it, would not they deem themselves truly immortal,
                    even here? But the trial is not over yet,—the experiment is not perfect. Six
                    years has she lived thus, but who can say whether indeed Death has no power over
                    her? In those six years she has changed,—she has grown from childhood to
                    womanhood,—does not change imply age?—and age suggest death, in spite of all
                    science? O inexorable Death!—I will pluck its secret out if I die in the
                    effort!"
                
                He turned away from the couch,—then seemed struck by a new idea.
                "If I die, did I say? But can I die? Is her Spirit
                    right? Is my reasoning wrong? Is there no pause anywhere?—no cessation of
                    thought?—no end to the insatiability of ambition? Must we plan and work and
                    live—FOR EVER?"
                A shudder ran through him,—the notion of his own perpetuity appalled him. Passing
                    a long mirror framed in antique silver, he caught sight of himself in it,—his
                    dark handsome face, rendered darker by the contrasting whiteness of his
                    hair,—his full black eyes,-his fine but disdainful mouth,—all looked back at him
                    with the scornful reflex of his own scornful regard.
                He laughed a little bitterly.
                "There you are, El-Râmi Zarânos!" he murmured half aloud. "Scoffer and
                    scientist,—master of a few common magnetic secrets such as the priests of
                    ancient Egypt made sport of, though in these modern days of "culture," they are
                    sufficient to make most men your tools! What now? Is there no rest for the inner
                    calculations of your mind?  Plan and work and
                    live for ever? Well, why not? Could I fathom the secrets of a thousand
                    universes, would that suffice me? No! I should seek for the solving of a
                    thousand more!"
                He gave a parting glance round the room,—at the fair tranced form on the couch,
                    at the placid Zaroba slumbering in a corner, at the whole effect of the
                    sumptuous apartment, with its purple and gold, its roses, its crystal and ivory
                    adornments,—then he passed out, drawing to the velvet curtains noiselessly
                    behind him. In the small anteroom, he took up the slate and wrote upon it—
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "I shall not return hither for forty-eight hours. During this
                                    interval admit as much full daylight as possible. Observe the
                                    strictest silence, and do not touch her.
                                
                                    "EL-RâMI."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Having thus set down his instructions he descended the stairs to his own room,
                    where, extinguishing the electric light, he threw himself on his hard
                    camp-bedstead and was soon sound asleep.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                "I DO not believe in a future state. I am very much
                    distressed about it."
                The speaker was a stoutish, able-bodied individual in clerical dress, with rather
                    a handsome face and an easy agreeable manner. He addressed himself to El-Râmi,
                    who, seated at his writing-table, observed him with something of a satirical
                    air.
                "You wrote me this letter?" queried El-Râmi, selecting one from a heap beside
                    him. The clergyman bent forward to look, and recognising his own handwriting,
                    smiled a bland assent.
                "You are the Rev. Francis Anstruther, Vicar of Laneck,—a great favourite with the
                    Bishop of your diocese, I understand?"
                The gentleman bowed blandly again,—  then
                    assumed a meek and chastened expression.
                "That is, I was a favourite of the Bishop's at one time"—he murmured
                    regretfully-"and I suppose I am now, only I fear that this matter of
                    conscience—"
                "Oh, it is a matter of conscience?" said El-Râmi slowly—"You are
                    sure of that?"
                "Quite sure of that!" and the Reverend Francis Anstruther sighed profoundly.
                "'Thus conscience does make cowards of us all—"'
                "I beg your pardon?" and the clergyman opened his eyes a little.
                "Nay, I beg yours!—I was quoting "Hamlet."'
                "Oh!"
                There was a silence. El-Râmi bent his dark flashing eyes on his visitor, who
                    seemed a little confused by the close scrutiny. It was the morning after the
                    circumstances narrated in the previous chapter,—the clock marked ten minutes to
                    noon,—the weather was brilliant and sunshiny, and the temperature warm for the
                    uncertain English month of May. El-Râmi rose suddenly and threw  open the window nearest him, as if he found the air
                    oppressive.
                "Why did you seek me out?" he demanded, turning towards the reverend gentleman
                    once more.
                "Well, it was really the merest accident—"
                "It always is!" said El-Râmi with a slight dubious smile.
                "I was at Lady Melthorpe's the other day, and I told her my difficulty. She spoke
                    of you, and said she felt certain you would be able to clear up my doubts—"
                "Not at all. I am too busy clearing up my own," said El-Râmi brusquely.
                The clergyman looked surprised.
                "Dear me!—I thought, from what her ladyship said, that you were scientifically
                    certain of—"
                "Of what?" interrupted El-Râmi—"Of myself? Nothing more uncertain in the world
                    than my own humour, I assure you! Of others? I am not a student of human
                    caprice. Of life?—of death? Neither. I am simply trying to prove the existence
                    of a "something after death"—but I am certain 
                    of nothing, and I believe in nothing, unless proved."
                "But," said Mr. Anstruther anxiously—"you will, I hope, allow me to explain that
                    you leave a very different impression on the minds of those to whom you speak,
                    than the one you now suggest. Lady Melthorpe, for instance,—"
                "Lady Melthorpe believes what it pleases her to believe,"—said El-Râmi
                    quietly—"All pretty, sensitive, imaginative women do. That accounts for the
                    immense success of Roman Catholicism with women. It is a graceful, pleasing,
                    comforting religion,—moreover it is really becoming to a woman,—she looks
                    charming with a rosary in her hand, or a quaint old missal,—and she knows it.
                    Lady Melthorpe is a believer in ideals,—well, there is no harm in ideals,—long
                    may she be able to indulge in them."
                "But Lady Melthorpe declares that you are able to tell the past and the future,"
                    persisted the clergyman—"And that you can also read the present;—if that is so,
                    you must surely possess visionary power?"
                El-Râmi looked at him stedfastly.
                
                "I can tell you the past;"—he said—"And I can read your present;—and from the two
                    portions of your life I can calculate the last addition, the Future,—but my
                    calculation may be wrong. I mean wrong as regards coming events;—past and
                    present I can never be mistaken in, because there exists a natural law, by which
                    you are bound to reveal yourself to me."
                The Reverend Francis Anstruther moved uneasily in his chair, but managed to
                    convey into his countenance the proper expression of politely incredulous
                    astonishment.
                "This natural law," went on El-Râmi, laying one hand on the celestial globe as he
                    spoke, "has been in existence ever since man's formation, but we are only just
                    now beginning to discover it, or rather re-discover it, since it was tolerably
                    well-known to the priests of ancient Egypt. You see this sphere;"—and he moved
                    the celestial globe round slowly—"It represents the pattern of the heavens
                    according to our solar system. Now a Persian poet of old time, declared in at
                    few wild verses, that solar systems taken in a mass, could be considered the
                    brain of  heaven, the stars being the thinking,
                    moving molecules of that brain. A sweeping idea,—what your line-and-pattern
                    critics would call "far-fetched"—but it will serve me just now for an
                    illustration of my meaning. Taking this "brain of heaven" by way of simile then,
                    it is evident we—we human pigmies,—are, notwithstanding our ridiculous
                    littleness and inferiority, able to penetrate correctly enough into some of the
                    mysteries of that star-teeming intelligence,—we can even take patterns of its
                    shifting molecules"—and again he touched the globe beside him,—"we can watch its
                    modes of thought—and calculate when certain planets will rise and set,—and when
                    we cannot see its action, we can get its vibrations of light, to the marvellous
                    extent of being able to photograph the moon of Neptune, which remains invisible
                    to the eye even with the assistance of a telescope. You wonder what all this
                    tends to?—well,—I speak of vibrations of light from the brain of
                    heaven,—vibrations which we know are existent; and which we prove by means of
                    photography; and because we see the results in black and white, we
                    believe in them. But  there are other
                    vibrations in the Universe, which cannot be photographed,—the vibrations of the
                    human brain, which like those emanating from the "brain of heaven" are full of
                    light and fire, and convey distinct impressions or patterns of thought. People
                    speak of "thought-transference" from one subject to another as if it were a
                    remarkable coincidence,—whereas you cannot put a stop to the transference of
                    thought,—it is in the very air, like the germs of disease or health,—and nothing
                    can do away with it."
                "I do not exactly understand"—murmured the clergyman with some bewilderment.
                "Ah, you want a practical demonstration of what seems a merely abstract theory?
                    Nothing easier!"—and moving again to the table he sat down, fixing his dark eyes
                    keenly on his visitor—"As the stars pattern heaven in various shapes, like the
                    constellation Lyra, or Orion, so you have patterned your brain with pictures or
                    photographs of your past and your present. All your past, every
                    scene of it, is impressed in the curious little brain-particles that lie in
                    their various cells,—  you have forgotten some
                    incidents, but they would all come back to you if you were drowning or being
                    hung;—because suffocation or strangulation would force up every infinitesimal
                    atom of brain-matter into extraordinary prominence for the moment. Naturally
                    your present existence is the most vivid picture with you, therefore perhaps you
                    would like me to begin with that?"
                "Begin?—how?" asked Mr. Anstruther, still in amazement.
                "Why,—let me take the impression of your brain upon my own. It is quite simple,
                    and quite scientific. Consider yourself the photographic negative, and me the
                    sensitive paper to receive the impression! I may offer you a blurred picture,
                    but I do not think it likely. Only if you wish to hide anything from me I would
                    advise you not to try the experiment."
                "Really, sir,—this is very extraordinary!—I am at a loss to comprehend—"
                "Oh, I will make it quite plain to you—" said El-Râmi with a slight smile—"There
                    is no witchcraft in it—no trickery,—nothing but the commonest A B C science.
                    Will  you try?—or would you prefer to leave the
                    matter alone? My demonstration will not convince you of a "future state," which
                    was the subject you first spoke to me about,—it will only prove to you the
                    physiological phenomena surrounding your present constitution and
                    condition."
                The Reverend Francis Anstruther hesitated. He was a little startled by the cold
                    and convincing manner with which El-Râmi spoke,—at the same time he did not
                    believe in his words, and his own incredulity inclined him to see the
                    "experiment," whatever it was. It would be all hocus-pocus, of course,—this
                    Oriental fellow could know nothing about him,—he had never seen him before, and
                    must therefore be totally ignorant of his private life and affairs. Considering
                    this for a moment, he looked up and smiled.
                "I shall be most interested and delighted,"—he said—"to make the trial you
                    suggest. I am really curious. As for the present picture or photograph on my
                    brain, I think it will only show you my perplexity as to my position with the
                    Bishop in my wavering state of mind—"
                
                "Or conscience—" suggested El-Râmi—"You said it was a matter of conscience."
                "Quite so—quite so! And conscience is the most powerful motor of a man's actions
                    Mr.—Mr. El-Râmi! It is indeed the voice of God!"
                "That depends on what it says, and how we hear it—" said El-Râmi rather
                    dryly—"Now if we are to make this "demonstration," will you put your left hand
                    here, in my left hand? So,—your left palm must press closely upon my left
                    palm,—yes—that will do. Observe the position, please;—you see that my left
                    fingers rest on your left wrist, and are therefore directly touching the nerves
                    and arteries running through your heart from your brain. By this, you are, to
                    use my former simile, pressing me, the sensitive paper, to your photographic
                    negative—and I make no doubt we shall get a fair impression. But to prevent any
                    interruption to the brainwave rushing from you to me, we will add this little
                    trifle," and he dexterously slipped a steel band over his hand and that of his
                    visitor as they rested thus together on the table, and snapt it to,—"a sort of
                    handcuff,  as you perceive. It has nothing in
                    the world to do with our experiment. It is simply placed there to prevent your
                    moving your hand away from mine, which would be your natural impulse if I should
                    happen to say anything disagreeably true. And to do so, would of course cut the
                    ethereal thread of contact between us. Now, are you ready?"
                The clergyman grew a shade paler. El-Râmi seemed so very sure of the result of
                    this singular trial, that it was a little bit disagreeable. But having consented
                    to the experiment, he felt he was compelled to go through with it, so he bowed a
                    nervous assent. Whereupon El-Râmi closed his brilliant eyes, and sat for one or
                    two minutes silent and immovable. A curious fidgetiness began to trouble the
                    Reverend Francis Anstruther,—he tried to think of something ridiculous,
                    something altogether apart from himself, but in vain,—his own personality, his
                    own life, his own secret aims seemed all to weigh upon him like a sudden
                    incubus. Presently tingling sensations pricked his arm as with burning
                    needles,—the hand that was fettered to that of El-Râmi felt as hot as  though it were being held to a fire. All at once
                    El-Râmi spoke in a low tone, without opening his eyes—
                "The shadow-impression of a woman. Brown-haired, dark-eyed,—of a full, luscious
                    beauty, and a violent, unbridled, ill-balanced will. Mindless, but physically
                    attractive. She dominates your thought."
                A quiver ran through the clergyman's frame,—if he could only have snatched away
                    his hand he would have done it then.
                "She is not your wife—" went on El-Râmi—"she is the wife of your wealthiest
                    neighbour. You have a wife,—an invalid,—you have also eight children,—but these
                    are not prominent in the picture at present. The woman with the dark eyes and
                    hair is the chief figure. Your plans are made for her—"
                He paused, and again the wretched Mr. Anstruther shuddered.
                "Wait—wait!" exclaimed El-Râmi suddenly in a tone of animation—"Now it comes
                    clearly. You have decided to leave the Church, not because you do not believe in
                    a future state,—for this you never have 
                    believed at any time—but because you wish to rid yourself of all moral and
                    religious responsibility. Your scheme is perfectly distinct. You will make out a
                    "case of conscience" to your authorities, and resign your living,—you will then
                    desert your wife and children,—you will leave your country in the company of the
                    woman whose secret lover you are—"
                "Stop!" cried the Reverend Mr. Anstruther, savagely endeavouring to wrench away
                    his hand from the binding fetter which held it remorselessly to the hand of
                    El-Râmi—"Stop! You are telling me a pack of lies!"
                El-Râmi opened his great flashing orbs and surveyed him first in surprise, then
                    with a deep unutterable contempt. Unclasping the steel band that bound their two
                    hands together, he flung it by, and rose to his feet.
                "Lies?" he echoed indignantly. "Your whole life is a lie, and both Nature and
                    Science are bound to give the reflex of it. What! would you play a double part
                    with the Eternal Forces and think to succeed in such desperate fooling? Do you
                    imagine you can deceive supreme Omniscience, which  holds every star and every infinitesimal atom of life
                    in a network of such instant vibrating consciousness and contact, that in
                    terrible truth there are and can be "no secrets hid"? You may if you like act
                    out the wretched comedy of feigning to deceive your God—the God of
                    the Churches,—but beware of trifling with the real God,—the
                    absolute EGO SUM of the Universe."
                His voice rang out passionately upon the stillness,—the clergyman had also risen
                    from his chair, and stood, nervously fumbling with his gloves, not venturing to
                    raise his eyes.
                "I have told you the truth of yourself,"—continued El-Râmi more quietly—"You know
                    I have. Why then do you accuse me of telling you lies? Why did you seek me out
                    at all if you wished to conceal yourself and your intentions from me? Can you
                    deny the testimony of your own brain reflected on mine? Come, confess! be honest
                    for once,—do you deny it?"
                "I deny everything;"—replied the clergyman,—but his accents were husky and
                    indistinct.
                "So be it!"—and El-Râmi gave a short  laugh of
                    scorn. "Your "case of conscience" is evidently very pressing! Go to your
                    Bishop—and tell him you cannot believe in a future state,—I certainly cannot
                    help you to prove that mystery. Besides, you would rather there
                    were no future state,—a "something after death" must needs be an unpleasant
                    point of meditation for such as you. Oh yes!—you will get your freedom;—you will
                    get all you are scheming for, and you will be quite a notorious person for
                    awhile on account of the delicacy of your sense of honour and the rectitude of
                    your principles. Exactly!—and then your final coup,—your running away with your neighbour's wife will make you
                    notorious again—in quite another sort of fashion. Ah!—every man is bound to
                    weave the threads of his own destiny, and you are weaving yours;—do not be
                    surprised if you find you have made of them a net wherein to become hopelessly
                    caught, tied and strangled. It is no doubt unpleasant for you to hear these
                    things,—what a pity you came to me!"
                The Reverend Francis Anstruther buttoned his glove carefully.
                
                "Oh, I do not regret it," he said. "Any other man might perhaps feel himself
                    insulted, but—"
                "But you are too much of a "Christian" to take offence—yes, I dare say!"
                    interposed El-Râmi satirically,—"I thank you for your amiable forbearance! Allow
                    me to close this interview"—and he was about to ring the bell, when his visitor
                    said hastily and with an effort at appearing unconcerned—
                "I suppose I may rely on your secrecy respecting what has passed?"
                "Secrecy?" and El-Râmi raised his black eyebrows disdainfully—"What you call
                    secrecy I know not. But if you mean that I shall speak of you and your
                    affairs,—why, make yourself quite easy on that score. I shall not even think of
                    you after you have left this room. Do not attach too much importance to
                    yourself, reverend sir,—true, your name will soon be mentioned in the
                    newspapers, but this should not excite you to an undue vanity. As for me, I have
                    other things to occupy me, and clerical "cases of conscience" such as yours,
                    fail to attract either my wonder or admiration!" Here he touched  the bell.—"Féraz!" this, as his young brother
                    instantly appeared—"The door!"
                The Reverend Francis Anstruther took up his hat, looked into it, glanced
                    nervously round at the picturesque form of the silent Féraz, then with a sudden
                    access of courage, looked at El-Râmi. That handsome Oriental's fiery eyes were
                    fixed upon him,—the superb head, the dignified figure, the stately manner, all
                    combined to make him feel uncomfortable and awkward; but he forced a faint
                    smile—it was evident he must say something.
                "You are a very remarkable man, Mr. ... El-Râmi"—he stammered.... "It has been a
                    most interesting ... and ... instructive morning!"
                El-Râmi made no response other than a slight frigid bow.
                The clergyman again peered into the depths of his hat.
                "I will not go so far as to say you were correct in anything you said"—he went
                    on—"but there was a little truth in some of your allusions,—they really applied,
                    or might be made to apply to past events,—by-gone circumstances ... you
                    understand? .."
                
                El-Râmi took one step towards him.
                "No more lies in Heaven's name!" he said in a stern whisper. "The air is poisoned
                    enough for to-day. Go!"
                Such a terrible earnestness marked his face and voice that the Reverend Francis
                    retreated abruptly in alarm, and stumbling out of the room hastily, soon found
                    himself in the open street with the great oaken door of El-Râmi's house shut
                    upon him. He paused a moment, glanced at the sky, then at the pavement, shook
                    his head, drew a long breath, and seemed on the verge of hesitation; then he
                    looked at his watch,—smiled a bland smile, and hailing a cab, was driven to
                    lunch at the Criterion, where a handsome woman with dark hair and eyes, met him
                    with mingled flattery and upbraiding, and gave herself pouting and capricious
                    airs of offence, because he had kept her ten minutes waiting.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                THAT afternoon El-Râmi prepared to go out as was his
                    usual custom, immediately after the mid-day meal, which was served to him by
                    Féraz, who stood behind his chair like a slave all the time he ate and drank,
                    attending to his needs with the utmost devotion and assiduity. Féraz indeed was
                    his brother's only domestic,—Zaroba's duties being entirely confined to the
                    mysterious apartments upstairs and their still more mysterious occupant. El-Râmi
                    was in a taciturn mood,—the visit of the Reverend Francis Anstruther seemed to
                    have put him out, and he scarcely spoke, save in monosyllables. Before leaving
                    the house, however, his humour suddenly softened, and noting the wistful and
                    timorous gaze with which Féraz regarded him, he laughed outright.
                
                "You are very patient with me, Féraz!" he said—"And I know I am as sullen as a
                    bear."
                "You think too much;"—replied Féraz gently—"And you work too hard."
                "Both thought and labour are necessary," said El-Râmi—"You would not have me live
                    a life of merely bovine repose?"
                Féraz gave a deprecating gesture.
                "Nay—but surely rest is needful. To be happy, God Himself must sometimes
                    sleep."
                "You think so?" and El-Râmi smiled—"Then it must be during His hours of repose
                    and oblivion that the business of life goes wrong, and Darkness and the Spirit
                    of Confusion walk abroad. The Creator should never sleep."
                "Why not, if He has dreams?" asked Féraz—"For if Eternal Thought becomes
                    Substance, so a God's Dream may become Life."
                "Poetic as usual, my Féraz"—replied his brother—"and yet perhaps you are not so
                    far wrong in your ideas. That Thought  becomes
                    substance, even with man's limited powers, is true enough;—the thought of a
                        perfect, form grows up embodied in the weight and Substance of
                    marble, with the sculptor,—the vague fancies of a poet, being set in ink on
                    paper, become Substance in book-shape, solid enough to pass from one hand to the
                    other;—even so may a God's mere Thought of a world create a Planet. It is my own
                    impression that thoughts, like atoms, are imperishable, and that even dreams,
                    being forms of thought, never die. But I must not stay here talking,—adieu! Do
                    not sit up for me to-night—I shall not return,—I am going down to the
                    coast."
                "To Ilfracombe?" questioned Féraz—"So long a journey, and all to see that poor
                    mad soul?"
                El-Râmi looked at him stedfastly.
                "No more "mad," Féraz, than you are with your notions about your native star! Why
                    should a scientist who amuses himself with the reflections on a Disc of magnetic
                    crystal be deemed "mad"? Fifty years ago the electric inventions of Edison would
                    have been called "impossible,"—and he, the 
                        in-
                        inventor
                    
                     ventor, considered hopelessly insane. But now
                    we know these seeming "miracles" are facts, we cease to wonder at them. And my
                    poor friend with his Disc is a harmless creature;—his "craze," if it be a craze,
                    is as innocent as yours."
                "But I have no craze"—said Féraz composedly,—"all that I know and see, lives in
                    my brain like music,—and though I remember it perfectly, I trouble no one with
                    the story of my past."
                "And he troubles no one with what he deems may be the story of the future"—said
                    El-Râmi—"Call no one "mad" because he happens to have a new idea—for time may
                    prove such "madness" a merely perfected method of reason. I must hasten, or I
                    shall lose my train."
                "If it is the 2.40 from Waterloo, you have time," said Féraz—"It is not yet two
                    o'clock. Do you leave any message for Zaroba?"
                "None. She has my orders."
                Féraz looked full at his brother, and a warm flush coloured his handsome
                    face.
                "Shall I never be worthy of your 
                        con-
                        confidence
                    
                     fidence?" he asked in a low voice—"Can you
                    never trust me with your great secret, as well as Zaroba?"
                El-Râmi frowned darkly.
                "Again, this vulgar vice of curiosity? I thought you were exempt from it by this
                    time."
                "Nay, but hear me, El-Râmi"—said Féraz eagerly, distressed at the anger in his
                    brother's eyes—"It is not curiosity,—it is something else,—something that I can
                    hardly explain, except.... Oh, you will only laugh at me if I tell you ... but
                    yet—"
                "But what?" demanded El-Râmi sternly.
                "It is as if a voice called me,"—answered Féraz dreamily—"a voice from those
                    upper chambers, which you keep closed, and of which only Zaroba has the care—a
                    voice that asks for freedom and for peace. It is such a sorrowful voice,—but
                    sweet,—more sweet than any singing. True, I hear it but seldom,—only when I do,
                    it haunts me for hours and hours. I know you are at some great work up
                    there,—but can you make such voices ring from a merely scientific laboratory?
                    Now you are angered!"
                
                His large soft brilliant eyes rested appealingly upon his brother, whose features
                    had grown pale and rigid.
                "Angered!" he echoed, speaking as it seemed with some effort,—"Am I ever angered
                    at your—your fancies? For fancies they are, Féraz,—the voice you hear is like
                    the imagined home in that distant star you speak of,—an image and an echo on
                    your brain—no more. My "great work," as you call it, would have no interest for
                    you;—it is nothing but a test-experiment, which, if it fails, then I fail with
                    it, and am no more El-Râmi-Zarânos, but the merest fool that ever clamoured for
                    the moon." He said this more to himself than to his brother, and seemed for the
                    moment to have forgotten where he was,—till suddenly rousing himself with a
                    start, he forced a smile.
                "Farewell for the present, gentle visionary!" he said kindly,—"You are happier
                    with your dreams than I with my facts,—do not seek out sorrow for yourself by
                    rash and idle questioning."
                With a parting nod he went out, and Féraz, closing the door after him, remained
                         in the hall for a few moments in a sort of
                    vague reverie. How silent the house seemed, he thought with a half-sigh. The
                    very atmosphere of it was depressing, and even his favourite occupation, music,
                    had just now no attraction for him. He turned listlessly into his brother's
                    study,—he determined to read for an hour or so, and looked about in search of
                    some entertaining volume. On the table he found a book open,—a manuscript,
                    written on vellum in Arabic, with curious uncanny figures and allegorical
                    designs on the headings and margins. El-Râmi had left it there by mistake,—it
                    was a particularly valuable treasure which he generally kept under lock and key.
                    Féraz sat down in front of it, and resting his head on his two hands, began to
                    read at the page where it lay open. Arabic was his native tongue,—yet he had
                    some difficulty in making out this especial specimen of the language, because
                    the writing was anything but distinct, and some of the letters had a very odd
                    way of vanishing before his eyes, just as he had fixed them on at word. This was
                    puzzling as well as irritating,—he must have something the matter with  his sight or his brain, he concluded, as these
                    vanishing letters always came into position again after a little. Worried by the
                    phenomenon, he seized the book and carried it to the full light of the open
                    window, and there succeeded in making out the meaning of one passage which was
                    quite sufficient to set him thinking. It ran as follows:
                * "Wherefore, touching illusions and
                    impressions, as also strong emotions of love, hatred, jealousy or revenge, these
                    nerve and brain sensations are easily conveyed from one human subject to another
                    by Suggestion. The first process is to numb the optic nerve. This is done in two
                    ways—I. By causing the subject to fix his eyes steadily on a round shining case
                    containing a magnet, while you shall count two hundred beats of time. II. By
                    wilfully making your own eyes the magnet, and fixing your subject thereto.
                    Either of these operations will temporarily paralyze the optic nerves, and
                    arrest the motion of the blood in the vessels pertaining. Thus the brain becomes
                    insensible to * From "The
                        Natural Law of Miracles," written in Arabic 400 B.C.
                     external impressions, and is only awake to
                    internal suggestions, which you may make as many and as devious as you please.
                    Your subject will see exactly what you choose him to see, hear what you wish him
                    to hear, do what you bid him do, so long as you hold him by your power, which if
                    you understand the laws of light, sound, and air-vibrations, you may be able to
                    retain for an indefinite period. The same force applies to the magnetising of a
                    multitude as of a single individual."
                Féraz read this over and over again,—then returning to the table, laid the book
                    upon it with a deeply engrossed air. It had given him unpleasant matter for
                    reflection.
                "A dreamer—a visionary, he calls me—" he mused, his thoughts reverting to his
                    absent brother—"Full of fancies poetic and musical,—now can it be that I owe my
                    very dreams to his dominance? Does he make me subservient to him,
                    as I am, or is my submission to his will, my own desire? Is my
                    "madness" or "craze," or whatever he calls it, of his working? and
                    should I be more like other men if I were separated  from him? And yet what has he ever done to me, save
                    make me happy? Has he placed me under the influence of any magnet such as this
                    book describes? Certainly not that I am aware of. He has made my inward spirit
                    clearer of comprehension, so that I hear him call me even by a thought,—I see
                    and know beautiful things of which grosser souls have no perception,—and am I
                    not content?—Yes, surely I am!—surely I should be,—though at times there seems a
                    something missing,—a something to which I cannot give a name."
                He sighed,—and again buried his head between his hands,—he was conscious of a
                    dreary sensation, unusual to his bright and fervid nature,—the very sunshine
                    streaming through the window seemed to lack true brilliancy. Suddenly a hand was
                    laid upon his shoulder,—he started and rose to his feet with a bewildered
                    air,—then smiled, as he saw that the intruder was only Zaroba.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                ONLY Zaroba,—gaunt, grim, fierce-eyed Zaroba, old and
                    unlovely, yet possessing withal an air of savage dignity, as she stood erect,
                    her amber-coloured robe bound about her with a scarlet girdle, and her gray hair
                    gathered closely under a small coif of the same vivid hue. Her wrinkled visage
                    had more animation in it than on the previous night, and her harsh voice grew
                    soft as she looked at the picturesque glowing beauty of the young man beside
                    her, and addressed him.
                "El-Râmi has gone?" she asked.
                Féraz nodded. He generally made her understand him either by signs, or the use of
                    the finger-alphabet, at which he was very dexterous.
                
                "On what quest?" she demanded.
                Féraz explained rapidly and mutely that he had gone to visit a friend residing at
                    a distance from town.
                "Then he will not return to-night;"—muttered Zaroba thoughtfully—"He will not
                    return to-night."
                She sat down, and clasping her hands across her knees, rocked herself to and fro
                    for some minutes in silence. Then she spoke, more to herself than to her
                    listener.
                "He is an angel or a fiend," she said in low meditative accents. "Or maybe he is
                    both in one. He saved me from death once—I shall never forget that. And by his
                    power he sent me back to my native land last night—I bound my black tresses with
                    pearl and gold, and laughed and sang,—I was young again!"—and with a sudden cry
                    she raised her hands above her head and clapped them fiercely together, so that
                    the silver bangles on her arms jangled like bells;—"As God liveth, I was young!
                        You know what it is to be young"—and she turned her dark orbs
                    half enviously upon Féraz, who, leaning against his brother's  writing-table, regarded her with interest and
                    something of awe—"or you should know it! To feel the blood leap in
                    the veins, while the happy heart keeps time like the beat of a joyous cymbal,—to
                    catch the breath and tremble with ecstasy as the eyes one loves best in the
                    world flash lightning-passion into your own,—to make companions of the roses,
                    and feel the pulses quicken at the songs of birds,—to tread the ground so
                    lightly as to scarcely know whether it is earth or air—this is to be
                    young!—young!—and I was young last night. My love was with me,—my love, my more
                    than lover—"Zaroba, beautiful Zaroba!" he said, and his kisses were as honey on
                    my lips—"Zaroba, pearl of passion! fountain of sweetness in a desert land!—thine
                    eyes are fire in which I burn my soul,—thy round arms the prison in which I lock
                    my heart! Zaroba, beautiful Zaroba!"—Beautiful! Ay!—through the power of El-Râmi
                    I was fair to see—last night! ... only last night!"
                Her voice sank down into a feeble wailing, and Féraz gazed at her compassionately
                    and in a little wonder,—he was accustomed to 
                    see her in various strange and incomprehensible moods, but she was seldom so
                    excited as now.
                "Why do you not laugh?" she asked suddenly and with a touch of defiance—"Why do
                    you not laugh at me?—at me, the wretched Zaroba,—old and unsightly—bent and
                    wrinkled!—that I should dare to say I was once beautiful!—It is a thing to make
                    sport of—an old forsaken woman's dream of her dead youth."
                With an impulsive movement that was as graceful as it was becoming, Féraz, for
                    sole reply, dropped on one knee beside her, and taking her wrinkled hand,
                    touched it lightly but reverently with his lips. She trembled, and great tears
                    rose in her eyes.
                "Poor boy!" she muttered—"Poor child!—a child to me, and yet a man! As God
                    liveth, a man!" She looked at him with a curious stedfastness. "Good Féraz,
                    forgive me—I did you wrong—I know you would not mock the aged, or make wanton
                    sport of their incurable woes,—you are too gentle. I would in truth you were
                    less mild of spirit—less womanish of heart!"
                
                "Womanish!" and Féraz leaped up, stung by the word, he knew not why. His heart
                    beat strangely—his blood tingled,—it seemed to him that if he had possessed a
                    weapon, his instinct would have been to draw it then. Never had he looked so
                    handsome; and Zaroba, watching his expression, clapped her withered hands in a
                    sort of witch-like triumph.
                "Ha!"—she cried—"The man's mettle speaks! There is something more than the
                    dreamer in you then—something that will help you to explain the mystery of your
                    existence—something that says—"Féraz, you are the slave of destiny—up! be its
                    master! Féraz, you sleep—awake!"' and Zaroba stood up tall and imposing, with
                    the air of an inspired sorceress delivering a prophecy—"Féraz, you have
                    manhood—prove it! Féraz, you have missed the one joy of life—LOVE!—Win it!"
                Féraz stared at her amazed. Her words were such as she had never addressed to him
                    before, and yet they moved him with a singular uneasiness. Love? Surely he knew
                    the meaning of love? It was an ideal passion, like the lifting-up of life in
                    prayer. Had not  his brother told him that
                    perfect love was unattainable on this planet?—and was it not a word the very
                    suggestions of which could only be expressed in music? These thoughts ran
                    through his mind while he stood inert and wondering,—then rousing himself a
                    little from the effects of Zaroba's outburst, he sat down at the table, and
                    taking up a pencil, wrote as follows—
                "You talk wildly, Zaroba—you cannot be well. Let me hear no more—you disturb my
                    peace. I know what love is—I know what life is. But the best part of my life and
                    love is not here,—but elsewhere."
                Zaroba took the paper from his hand, read it, and tore it to bits in a rage.
                "O foolish youth!" she exclaimed—"Your love is the love of a Dream,—your life is
                    the life of a Dream! You see with another's eyes—you think through another's
                    brain. You are a mere machine, played upon by another's will! But not forever
                    shall you be deceived—not forever,—" here she gave a slight start and looked
                    around her nervously as though she expected someone to enter the room
                    suddenly—"Listen! Come to me 
                        to-
                        to-night
                    
                     night,—to-night when all is dark and
                    silent,—when every sound in the outside street is stilled,—come to me—and I will
                    show you a marvel of the world!—one who, like you, is the victim of a Dream!"
                    She broke off abruptly and glanced from right to left in evident alarm,—then
                    with a fresh impetus of courage, she bent towards her companion again and
                    whispered in his ear—"Come!"
                "But where?" asked Féraz in the language of signs.
                "Up yonder!" said Zaroba firmly, regardless of the utter amazement with which
                    Féraz greeted this answer—"Up, where El-Râmi hides his great secret. Yes—I know
                    he has forbidden you to venture there,—even so has he forbidden me to speak of
                    what he cherishes so closely,—but are we slaves, you and I? Do you purpose
                    always to obey him? So be it, 
                        an
                        and
                     you will! But if I were you,—a man—I would defy both gods
                    and fiends if they opposed my liberty of action. Do as it pleases you,—I,
                    Zaroba, have given, you the choice,—stay and dream of life—or come and live it!
                    Till to-night—farewell!"
                She had reached the door and vanished  through
                    it, before Féraz could demand more of her meaning,—and he was left alone, a prey
                    to the most torturing emotions. "The vulgar vice of curiosity!" That was the
                    phrase his brother had used to him scarcely an hour agone,—and yet, here he was,
                    yielding to a fresh fit of the intolerable desire that had possessed him for
                    years to know El-Râmi's great secret. He dropped wearily into a chair and
                    thought all the circumstances over. They were as follows,—
                In the first place he had never known any other protector or friend than his
                    brother, who, being several years older than himself, had taken sole charge of
                    him after the almost simultaneous death of their father and mother, an event
                    which he knew had occurred somewhere in the East, but how or when, he could not
                    exactly remember, nor had he ever been told much about it. He had always been
                    very happy in El-Râmi's companionship, and had travelled with him nearly all
                    over the world,—and though they had never been rich, they had always had
                    sufficient wherewith to live comfortably, though how even this small competence
                    was gained, Féraz  never knew. There had been
                    no particular mystery about his brother's life, however, till on one occasion,
                    when they were travelling together across the Syrian desert, where they had come
                    upon a caravan of half-starved Arab wanderers in dire distress from want and
                    sickness. Among them was an elderly woman at the extreme point of death, and an
                    orphan child named Lilith, who was also dying. El-Râmi had suddenly, for no
                    special reason, save kindness of heart and compassion, offered his services as
                    physician to the stricken little party, and had restored the elderly woman, a
                    widow, almost miraculously to health and strength in a day or two. This woman
                    was no other than Zaroba. The sick child however, a girl of about twelve years
                    old, died. And here began the puzzle. On the day of this girl's death, El-Râmi,
                    with sudden and inexplicable haste, had sent his young brother on to Alexandria,
                    bidding him there take ship immediately for the Island of Cyprus, and carry to a
                    certain monastery some miles from Famagousta, a packet of documents, which he
                    stated were of the most extraordinary value and importance. Féraz  had obeyed, and according to further instructions,
                    had remained as a visitor in that Cyprian religious retreat, among monks unlike
                    any other monks he had ever seen or heard of, till he was sent for, whereupon,
                    according to command, he rejoined El-Râmi in London. He found him, somewhat to
                    his surprise, installed in the small house where they now were,—with the woman
                    Zaroba, whose presence was another cause of blank astonishment, especially as
                    she seemed to have nothing to do but keep certain rooms upstairs in order. But
                    all the questions Féraz poured out respecting her, and everything that had
                    happened since their parting in the Syrian desert, were met by equivocal replies
                    or absolute silence on his brother's part, and by-and-bye the young man grew
                    accustomed to his position. Day by day he became more and more subservient to
                    El-Râmi's will, though he could never quite comprehend why he was so willingly
                    submissive. Of course he knew that his brother was gifted with certain powers of
                    physical magnetism,—because he had allowed himself to be practised upon, and he
                    took a certain  interest in the scientific
                    development of those powers, this being, as he quite comprehended, one of the
                    branches of study on which El-Râmi was engaged. He knew that his brother could
                    compel response to thought from a distance,—but, as there were others of his
                    race who could do the same thing, and as that sort of mild hypnotism was largely
                    practised in the East, where he was born, he attached no special importance to
                    it. Endowed with various gifts of genius such as music and poetry, and a quick
                    perception of everything beautiful and artistic, Féraz lived in a tranquil
                    little Eden of his own,—and the only serpent in it that now and then lifted its
                    head to hiss doubt and perplexity was the inexplicable mystery of those upstair
                    rooms over which Zaroba had guardianship. The merest allusion to the subject
                    excited El-Râmi's displeasure; and during the whole time they had lived together
                    in that house, now nearly six years, he had not dared to speak of it more than a
                    very few times, while Zaroba, on her part, had faithfully preserved the utmost
                    secrecy. Now, she seemed disposed to break the long-kept  rules,—and Féraz knew not what to think of it.
                "Is everything destiny, as El-Râmi says?" he mused—"Or shall I follow my own
                    desires in the face of destiny? Shall I yield to temptation—or shall I overcome
                    it? Shall I break his command,—lose his affection and be a free man,—or shall I
                    obey him still, and be his slave? And what should I do with my liberty if I had
                    it, I wonder? Womanish! What a word! Am I womanish?" He paced up
                    and down the room in sudden irritation and haughtiness;—the piano stood open,
                    but its ivory keys failed to attract him,—his brain was full of other
                    suggestions than the making of sweet harmony.
                "Do not seek out sorrow for yourself by rash and idle questioning."
                So his brother had said at parting. And the words rang in his ears as he walked
                    to and fro restlessly, thinking, wondering, and worrying his mind with vague
                    wishes and foreboding anxieties, till the shining afternoon wore away and
                    darkness fell.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                A ROUGH night at sea,—but the skies were clear, and
                    the great worlds of God which we call stars, throbbed in the heavens like
                    lustrous lamps, all the more brilliantly for there being no moon to eclipse
                    their glory. A high gale was blowing, and the waves dashed up on the coast of
                    Ilfracombe with an organ-like thud and roar as they broke in high jets of spray,
                    and then ran swiftly back again with a soft swish and ripple suggestive of the
                    downward chromatic scale played rapidly on well-attuned strings. There was
                    freshness and life in the dancing wind;—the world seemed well in motion;—and,
                    standing aloft among the rocks, and looking down at the tossing sea, one could
                    realize completely the continuous whirl of the  globe beneath one's feet, and the perpetual movement of the planet-studded
                    heavens. High above the shore, on a bare jutting promontory, a solitary house
                    faced seaward;—it was squarely built and surmounted with a tower, wherein one
                    light burned fitfully, its pale sparkle seeming to quiver with fear as the wild
                    wind fled past joyously, with a swirl and cry like some huge sea-bird on the
                    wing. It looked a dismal residence at its best, even when the sun was
                    shining,—but at night its aspect was infinitely more dreary. It was an old
                    house, and it enjoyed the reputation of being haunted,—a circumstance which had
                    enabled its present owner to purchase the lease of it for a very moderate sum.
                    He it was who had built the tower, and whether because of this piece of
                    extravagance or for other unexplained reasons, he had won for himself
                    personally, almost as uncanny a reputation as the house had possessed before he
                    occupied it. A man who lived the life of a recluse,—who seemed to have no
                    relations with the outside world at all,—who had only one servant, (a young
                    German whom the shrewder gossips declared was his  "keeper")—who lived on such simple fare as certainly
                    would never have contented a modern Hodge earning twelve shillings a week, and
                    who seemed to purchase nothing but strange astronomical and geometrical
                    instruments,—surely such a queer personage must either be mad, or in league with
                    some evil "secret society,"—the more especially that he had had that tower
                    erected, into which, after it was finished, no one but himself ever entered so
                    far as the people of the neighbourhood could tell. Under all these suspicious
                    circumstances, it was natural he should be avoided; and avoided he was by the
                    good folk of Ilfracombe, in that pleasantly diverting fashion which causes
                    provincial respectability to shudder away from the merest suggestion of superior
                    intelligence.
                And yet poor old Dr. Kremlin was a being not altogether to be despised. His
                    appearance was perhaps against him, inasmuch as his clothes were shabby, and his
                    eyes rather wild,—but the expression of his meagre face was kind and gentle, and
                    a perpetual compassion for everything and everybody, seemed to vibrate in his
                    voice and reflect itself in his  melancholy
                    smile. He was deeply occupied—so he told a few friends in Russia, where he was
                    born,—in serious scientific investigations,—but the "friends," deeming him mad,
                    held aloof till those investigations should become results. If the results
                    proved disappointing, there would be no need to notice him any more,—if
                    successful, why then, by a mystic process known only to themselves, the
                    "friends" would so increase and multiply that he would be quite inconveniently
                    surrounded by them. In the meantime, nobody wrote to him, or came to see him,
                    except El-Râmi; and it was El-Râmi now, who, towards ten o'clock in the evening,
                    knocked at the door of his lonely habitation and was at once admitted with every
                    sign of deference and pleasure by the servant Karl.
                "I'm glad you've come, sir,"—said this individual cheerfully,—"The Herr Doctor
                    has not been out all day, and he eats less than ever. It will do him good to see
                    you."
                "He is in the tower as usual, at work?" enquired El-Râmi, throwing off his
                    coat.
                Karl assented, with rather a doleful look,— 
                    and opening the door of a small dining-room, showed the supper-table laid for
                    two.
                El-Râmi smiled.
                "It's no good, Karl!" he said kindly—"It's very well meant on your part, but it's
                    no good at all. You will never persuade your master to eat at this time of
                    night, or me either. Clear all these things away,—and make your mind easy,—go to
                    bed and sleep. To-morrow morning prepare as excellent a breakfast as you
                    please—I promise you we'll do justice to it! Don't look so discontented—don't
                    you know that over-feeding kills the working capacity?"
                "And over-starving kills the man,—working-capacity and all"—responded Karl
                    lugubriously—"However, I suppose you know best, sir!"
                "In this case I do"—replied El-Râmi—"Your master expects me?"
                Karl nodded,—and El-Râmi, with a brief "good-night," ascended the staircase
                    rapidly and soon disappeared. A door banged aloft—then all was still. Karl
                    sighed profoundly, and slowly cleared away the useless supper.
                "Well! How wise men can bear to  starve
                    themselves just for the sake of teaching fools, is more than I shall ever
                    understand!" he said half aloud—"But then I shall never be wise—I am an ass and
                    always was. A good dinner and a glass of good wine have always seemed to me
                    better than all the science going,—there's a shameful confession of ignorance
                    and brutality together, if you like. "Where do you think you will go to when you
                    die, Karl?" says the poor old Herr Doctor. And what do I say? I
                    say—"I don't know, mein Herr—and I don't care. This world is good
                    enough for me so long as I live in it." "But afterwards Karl,—afterwards!" he
                    says, with his gray head shaking. And what do I say? Why, I say—"I
                    can't tell, mein Herr! but whoever sent me Here will surely have
                    sense enough to look after me There!" And he laughs, and his head shakes worse
                    than ever. Ah! Nothing can ever make me clever, and I'm very glad of it!"
                He whistled a lively tune softly, as he went to bed in his little side-room off
                    the passage, and wondered again, as he had wondered hundreds of times before,
                    what  caused that solemn low humming noise
                    that throbbed so incessantly through the house, and seemed so loud when
                    everything else was still. It was a grave sound,—suggestive of a long-sustained
                    organ-note held by the pedal-bass;—the murmuring of seas and rivers seemed in
                    it, as well as the rush of the wind. Karl had grown accustomed to it, though he
                    did not know what it meant,—and he listened to it, till drowsiness made him
                    fancy it was the hum of his mother's spinning wheel, at home in his native
                    German village among the pine-forests, and so he fell happily asleep.
                Meanwhile El-Râmi, ascending to the tower, knocked sharply at a small
                    nail-studded door in the wall. The mysterious murmuring noise was now louder
                    than ever,—and the knock had to be repeated three or four times before it was
                    attended to. Then the door was cautiously opened, and the "Herr Doctor" himself
                    looked out, his wizened, aged, meditative face illumined like a Rembrandt
                    picture by the small hand-lamp he held in his hand.
                "Ah!—El-Râmi!" he said in slow yet  pleased
                    tones—"I thought it might be you. And like "Bernardo"—you "come most carefully
                    upon your hour."'
                He smiled, as one well satisfied to have made an apt quotation, and opened the
                    door more widely to admit his visitor.
                "Come in quickly,"—he said—"The great window is open to the skies, and the wind
                    is high,—I fear some damage from the draught,—come in—come in!"
                His voice became suddenly testy and querulous,—and El-Râmi stepped in at once
                    without reply. Dr. Kremlin shut to the door carefully and bolted it—then he
                    turned the light of the lamp he carried, full on the dark handsome face and
                    dignified figure of his companion.
                "You are looking well—well,"—he muttered—"Not a shade older—always sound and
                    strong! Just Heavens!—if I had your physique, I think with Archimedes, that I
                    could lift the world! But I am getting very old,—the life in me is ebbing
                    fast,—and I have not done my work—.... God! ... God! I have not done my
                    work!"
                He clenched his hands, and his voice  quavered
                    down into a sound that was almost a groan. EI-Râmi's black beaming eyes rested
                    on him compassionately.
                "You are worn out, my dear Kremlin,"—he said gently—"worn out and exhausted with
                    long toil. You shall sleep to-night. I have come according to my promise, and I
                    will do what I can for you. Trust me—you shall not lose the reward of your
                    life's work by want of time. You shall have time,-even leisure to complete your
                    labours,—I will give you "length of days"!"
                The elder man sank into a chair trembling, and rested his head wearily on one
                    hand.
                "You cannot;"—he said faintly-"you cannot stop the advance of death, my friend!
                    You are a very clever man—you have a far-reaching subtlety of brain,—but your
                    learning and wisdom must pause there—there at the boundary-line of
                    the grave. You cannot overstep it or penetrate beyond it—you cannot slacken the
                    pace of the on-rushing years;—no, no! I shall be forced to depart with half my
                    discovery uncompleted."
                El-Râmi smiled,—a slightly derisive smile.
                "You, who have faith in so much that  cannot be
                    proved, are singularly incredulous of a fact that can be
                    proved;"—he said—"Anyway, whatever you choose to think, here I am in answer to
                    your rather sudden summons—and here is your saving remedy;—" and he placed a
                    gold-stoppered flask on the table near which they sat—"It is, or might be
                    called, a veritable distilled essence of time,—for it will do what they say God
                    cannot do, make the days spin backward!"
                Dr. Kremlin took up the flask curiously.
                "You are so positive of its action?"
                "Positive. I have kept one human creature alive and in perfect health for six
                    years on that vital fluid alone."
                "Wonderful!—wonderful!"—and the old scientist held it close to the light, where
                    it seemed to flash like a diamond,—then he smiled dubiously—"Am I the new Faust,
                    and you Mephisto?"
                "Bah!" and El-Râmi shrugged his shoulders carelessly—"An old nurse's tale!—yet,
                    like all old nurses' tales and legends of every sort under the sun, it is not
                    without its grain of truth. As I have often told you, there is really nothing
                    imagined by  the human brain that is not
                    possible of realization, either here or hereafter. It would be a false note and
                    a useless calculation to allow thought to dwell on what cannot be,—hence our
                    airiest visions are bound to become facts in time. All the same, I am not of
                    such superhuman ability that I can make you change your skin like a serpent, and
                    blossom into youth and the common vulgar lusts of life, which to the thinker
                    must be valueless. No. What you hold there, will simply renew the tissues, and
                    gradually enrich the blood with fresh globules—nothing more,—but that is all you
                    need. Plainly and practically speaking, as long as the tissues and the blood
                    continue to renew themselves, you cannot die except by violence."
                "Cannot die!" echoed Kremlin, in stupefied wonder—"Cannot die?"
                "Except by violence—" repeated El-Râmi with emphasis—"Well!—and what now? There
                    is nothing really astonishing in the statement. Death by violence is the only
                    death possible to anyone familiar with the secrets of Nature, and there is more
                    than  one lesson to be learned from the old
                    story of Cain and Abel. The first death in the world, according to that legend,
                    was death by violence. Without violence, life should be immortal, or at least
                    renewable at pleasure."
                "Immortal!" muttered Dr. Kremlin—"Immortal! Renewable at pleasure! My God!—then I
                    have time before me—plenty of time!"
                "You have, if you care for it—" said El-Râmi with a tinge of melancholy in his
                    accents—"and if you continue to care for it. Few do, nowadays."
                But his companion scarcely heard him. He was balancing the little flask in his
                    hand in wonderment and awe.
                "Death by violence?"—he repeated slowly. "But, my friend, may not God Himself use
                    violence towards us? May He not snatch the unwilling soul from its earthly
                    tenement at an unexpected moment,—and so, all the scheming and labour and
                    patient calculation of years be ended in one flash of time?"
                "God—if there be a God, which some are fain to believe there is,—uses no
                    violence—"  replied El-Râmi—"Deaths by
                    violence are due to the ignorance, or brutality, or long-inherited
                    fool-hardiness and interference of man alone."
                "What of shipwreck?—storm?—lightning?"—queried Dr. Kremlin, still playing with
                    the flask he held.
                "You are not going to sea, are you?" asked El-Râmi, smiling—"And surely you, of
                    all men, should know that even shipwrecks are clue to a lack of mathematical
                    balance in ship-building. One little trifle of exactitude, which is always
                    missing, unfortunately,—one little delicate scientific adjustment, and the
                    fiercest storm and wind could not prevail against the properly poised vessel. As
                    for lightning—of course people are killed by it if they persist in maintaining
                    an erect position like a lightning-rod or conductor, while the electrical
                    currents are in full play. If they were to lie flat down, as savages do, they
                    could not attract the descending force. But who, among arrogant stupid men,
                    cares to adopt such simple precautions? Any way, I do not see that you need fear
                    any of these disasters."
                
                "No no,"—said the old man meditatively, "I need not fear,—no, no! I have nothing
                    to fear."
                His voice sank into silence. He and El-Râmi were sitting in a small square
                    chamber of the tower,—very narrow, with only space enough for the one tiny table
                    and two chairs which furnished it,—the walls were covered with very curious
                    maps, composed of lines and curves and zig-zag patterns, meaningless to all
                    except Kremlin himself, whose dreamy gaze wandered to them between-whiles with
                    an ardent yearning and anxiety. And ever that strange deep, monotonous humming
                    noise surged through the tower as of a mighty wheel at work, the vibration of
                    the sound seeming almost to shake the solid masonry, while mingling with it now
                    and again came the wild sea-bird cry of the wind. El-Râmi listened.
                "And still it moves?" he queried softly, using almost the words of
                        Galileo,—"e pur, si muove."
                Dr. Kremlin looked up, his pale eyes full of a sudden fire and animation.
                "Ay!—still it moves!" he responded with  a
                    touch of eager triumph in his tone—"Still it moves—and still it sounds! The
                    music of the Earth, my friend!—the dominant note of all Nature's melody! Hear
                    it!—round, full, grand and perfect!—one tone in the ascending scale of the
                    planets,—the song of one Star,—our Star—as it rolls on its
                    predestined way! Come!—come with me!" and he sprang up excitedly—"It is a night
                    for work;—the heavens are clear as a mirror,—come and see my Dial of the
                    Fates,—you have seen it before, I know, but there are new reflexes upon it
                    now,—new lines of light and colour,—ah, my good El-Râmi, if you could solve
                        my Problem, you would be soon wiser than you are! Your gift of
                    long life would be almost valueless compared to my proof of what is beyond
                    life—"
                "Yes—if the proof could be obtained—" interposed El-Râmi.
                "It shall be obtained!" cried Kremlin wildly—"It shall! I will not die till the
                    secret is won. I will wrench it out from the Holy of Holies—I will pluck it from
                    the very thoughts of God!"
                He trembled with the violence of his own 
                    emotions,—then passing his hand across his forehead, he relapsed into sudden
                    calm, and smiling gently, said again—
                "Come!"
                El-Râmi rose at once in obedience to this request,—and the old man preceded him
                    to a high narrow door which looked like a slit in the wall, and which he
                    unbarred and opened with an almost jealous care. A brisk puff of wind blew in
                    their faces through the aperture, but this subsided into mere cool freshness of
                    air, as they entered and stood together within the great central chamber of the
                    tower,—a lofty apartment, where the strange work of Kremlin's life was displayed
                    in all its marvellous complexity,—a work such as no human being had ever
                    attempted before, or would be likely to attempt again.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER X.
                THE singular object that at once caught and fixed the
                    eye in fascinated amazement and something of terror, was a huge Disc, suspended
                    between ceiling and floor by an apparently inextricable mesh and tangle of
                    wires. It was made of some smooth glittering substance like crystal, and seemed
                    from its great height and circumference to occupy nearly the whole of the lofty
                    tower-room. It appeared to be lightly poised and balanced on a long steel rod,—a
                    sort of gigantic needle which hung from the very top of the tower. The entire
                    surface of the Disc was a subdued blaze of light,—light which fluctuated in
                    waves and lines, and zig-zag patterns like a kaleidoscope, as the enormous thing
                    circled round and round, as it did, with a sort of  measured motion, and a sustained solemn buzzing
                    sound. Here was the explanation of the mysterious noise that vibrated throughout
                    the house,—it was simply the movement of this round shield-like mass among its
                    wonderful network of rods and wires. Dr. Kremlin called it his "crystal"
                    Disc,—but it was utterly unlike ordinary crystal, for it not only shone with a
                    transparent watery clearness, but possessed the scintillating lustre of a fine
                    diamond cut into numerous prisms, so that El-Râmi shaded his eyes from the flash
                    of it as he stood contemplating it in silence. It swirled round and round
                    steadily; facing it, a large casement window, about the size of half the wall,
                    was thrown open to the night, and through this could be seen a myriad sparkling
                    stars. The wind blew in, but not fiercely now, for part of the wrath of the gale
                    was past,—and the wash of the sea on the beach below had exactly the same tone
                    in it as the monotonous hum of the Disc as it moved. At one side of the open
                    window a fine telescope mounted on a high stand, pointed out towards the
                    heavens,—there were numerous other scientific implements  in the room, but it was impossible to take much
                    notice of anything but the Disc itself, with its majestic motion and the solemn
                    sound to which it swung. Dr. Kremlin seemed to have almost forgotten El-Râmi's
                    presence,—going up to the window, he sat down on a low bench in the corner, and
                    folding his arms across his breast gazed at his strange invention with a fixed,
                    wondering, and appealing stare.
                "How to unravel the meaning—how to decipher the message!" he muttered—"Sphinx of
                    my brain, tell me, is there No answer? Shall the actual offspring of my thought
                    refuse to clear up the riddle I propound? Nay, is it possible the creature
                    should baffle the creator? See! the lines change again—the vibrations are
                    altered,—the circle is ever the circle, but the reflexes differ,—how can one
                    separate or classify them—how?"
                Thus far his half-whispered words were audible,—when El-Râmi came and stood
                    beside him. Then he seemed to suddenly recollect himself, and looking up, he
                    rose to his feet and spoke in a perfectly calm and collected manner.
                
                "You see"—he said, pointing to the Disc with the air of a lecturer illustrating
                    his discourse—"To begin with, there is the fine hair's-breadth balance of matter
                    which gives perpetual motion. Nothing can stop that movement save the
                    destruction of the whole piece of mechanism. By some such subtly delicate
                    balance as that, the Universe moves,—and nothing can stop it save the
                    destruction of the Universe. Is not that fairly reasoned?"
                "Perfectly," replied El-Râmi, who was listening with profound attention.
                "Surely that of itself,—the secret of perpetual motion,—is a great discovery, is
                    it not?" questioned Kremlin eagerly.
                El-Râmi hesitated.
                "It is," he said at last. "Forgive me if I paused a moment before replying,—the
                    reason of my doing so was this. You cannot claim to yourself any actual
                    discovery of perpetual motion, because that is Nature's own particular mystery.
                    Perhaps I do not explain myself with sufficient clearness,—well, what I mean to
                    imply is this—namely, that your wonderful dial there would not revolve as it  does, if the Earth on which we stand were not
                    also revolving. If we could imagine our planet stopping suddenly in its course,
                    your Disc would stop also,—is not that correct?"
                "Why, naturally!" assented Kremlin impatiently. "Its movement is mathematically
                    calculated to follow, in a slower degree, but with rhythmical exactitude, the
                    Earth's own movement, and is so balanced as to be absolutely accurate to the
                    very half-quarter of a hair's-breadth."
                "Yes,—and there is the chief wonder of your invention," said El-Râmi quietly. "It
                    is that peculiarly precise calculation of yours that is so marvellous, in that
                    it enables you to follow the course of perpetual motion. With
                    perpetual motion itself you have nothing to do,—you cannot find its why or its
                    when or its how,—it is eternal as Eternity. Things must move,—and we all move
                    with them—your Disc included."
                "But the moving things are balanced—so!" said Kremlin, pointing triumphantly to
                    his work—"On one point—one pivot!"
                "And that point—?" queried El-Râmi dubiously.
                
                "Is a Central Universe"—responded Kremlin—"where God abides."
                El-Râmi looked at him with dark, dilating, burning eyes.
                "Suppose," he said suddenly—"suppose—for the sake of argument—that this Central
                    Universe you imagine exists, were but the outer covering or shell of another
                    Central Universe, and so on through innumerable Central Universes for ever and
                    ever and ever, and no point or pivot reachable!"
                Kremlin uttered a cry, and clasped his hands with a gesture of terror.
                "Stop—stop!" he gasped—"Such an idea is frightful!—horrible! Would you drive me
                    mad?—mad, I tell you? No human brain could steadily contemplate the thought of
                    such pitiless infinity!"
                He sank back on the seat and rocked himself to and fro like a person in physical
                    pain, the while he stared at El-Râmi's majestic figure and dark meditative face
                    as though he saw some demon in a dream. El-Râmi met his gaze with a
                    compassionate glance in his own eyes.
                "You are narrow, my friend,"—he observed  —"as
                    narrow of outward and onward conception as most scientists are. I grant you the
                    human brain has limits; but the human Soul has none! There is no "pitiless
                    infinity" to the Soul's aspirations,—it is never contented,—but eternally
                    ambitious, eternally enquiring, eternally young, it is ready to scale heights
                    and depths without end, unconscious of fatigue or satiety. What of a million
                    million Universes? I—even I—can contemplate them without dismay,—the brain may
                    totter and reel at the multiplicity of them,—but the SOUL would absorb them all
                    and yet seek space for more!"
                His rich, deep tranquil voice had the effect of calming Kremlin's excited nerves.
                    He paused in his uneasy rocking to and fro, and listened as though he heard
                    music.
                "You are a bold man, El-Râmi," he said slowly—"I have always said it,—bold even
                    to rashness. Yet with all your large ideas I find you inconsistent; for example,
                    you talk of the Soul now, as if you believed in it,—but there are times when you
                    declare yourself doubtful of its existence."
                "It is necessary to split hairs of argument 
                    with you, I see"—returned El-Râmi with a slight smile,—"Can you not understand
                    that I may believe in the Soul without being sure of it? It is the
                    natural instinct of every man to credit himself with immortality, because this
                    life is so short and unsatisfactory,—the notion may be a fault of heritage
                    perhaps, still it is implanted in us all the same. And I do believe in the
                    Soul,—but I require certainty to make my mere belief an undeniable Fact. And the
                    whole business of my life is to establish that fact provably, and beyond any
                    sort of doubt whatever,—what inconsistency do you find there?"
                "None—none—" said Kremlin hastily—"But you will not succeed,—yours is too daring
                    an attempt,—too arrogant and audacious a demand upon the Unknown Forces."
                "And what of the daring and arrogance displayed here?" asked El-Râmi, with a wave
                    of his hand towards the glittering Disc in front of them.
                Kremlin jumped up excitedly.
                "No, no!—you cannot call the mere 
                        scien-
                        scientific
                    
                     tific investigation of natural objects
                    arrogant," he said—"Besides, the whole thing is so very simple after all. It is
                    well known that every star in the heavens sends forth perpetual radiations of
                    light; which radiations in a given number of minutes, days, months or years,
                    reach our Earth. It depends of course on the distance between the particular
                    star and our planet, as to how long these light-vibrations take to arrive here.
                    One ray from some stars will occupy thousands of years in its course,—in fact,
                    the original planet from which it fell, may be swept out of existence before it
                    has time to penetrate our atmosphere. All this is in the lesson-books of
                    children, and is familiar to every beginner in the rudiments of astronomy. But
                    apart from time and distance, there is no cessation to these
                    light-beats or vibrations; they keep on arriving for ever, without an instant's
                    pause. Now, my great idea, was, as you know, to catch these reflexes on a mirror
                    or dial of magnetic spar,—and you see for yourself that this thing, which seemed
                    impossible, is to a certain extent done. Magnetic spar is not a new substance to
                    you,  any more than it was to the Egyptian
                    priests of old—and the quality it has, of attracting light in its exact lines
                    wherever light falls, is no surprise to you, though it might seem a marvel to
                    the ignorant. Every little zigzag or circular flash on that Disc, is a vibration
                    of light from some star,—but what puzzles and confounds my skill is this;—That
                    there is a Meaning in those lines—a distinct Meaning which asks to be
                    interpreted,—a picture which is ever on the point of declaring itself, and is
                    never declared. Mine is the torture of a Tantalus watching night after night
                    that mystic Dial!"
                He went close up to the Disc, and pointed out one particular spot on its surface
                    where at that moment there was a glittering tangle of little prismatic
                    tints.
                "Observe this with me—" he said, and El-Râmi approached him—"Here is a perfect
                    cluster of light-vibrations,—in two minutes by my watch they will be here no
                    longer,—and a year or more may pass before they appear again. From what stars
                    they fall, and why they have deeper colours than most of the reflexes, I cannot
                    tell. There—  see!" and he looked round with
                    an air of melancholy triumph mingled with wonder, as the little spot of
                    brilliant colour suddenly disappeared like the moisture of breath from a
                    mirror—"They are gone! I have seen them four times only since the Disc was
                    balanced twelve years ago,—and I have tried in every way to trace their
                    origin—in vain—all, all in vain! If I could only decipher the Meaning!—for as
                    sure as God lives there is a Meaning there."
                El-Râmi was silent, and Dr. Kremlin went on.
                "The air is a conveyer of Sound—" he said meditatively—"The light is a conveyer
                    of Scenes. Mark that well. The light may be said to create landscape and
                    generate Colour. Reflexes of light make pictures,—witness the instantaneous
                    flash, which with the aid of chemistry, will give you a photograph in a second.
                    I firmly believe that all reflexes of light are so many letters of a marvellous
                    alphabet, which if we could only read it, would enable us to grasp the highest
                    secrets of creation. The seven tones of music, for example, are in Nature;—in
                    any  ordinary storm, where there is wind and
                    rain and the rustle of leaves, you can hear the complete scale on which every
                    atom of musical composition has ever been written. Yet what ages it took us to
                    reduce that scale to a visible tangible form,—and even now we have not mastered
                    the quarter-tones heard in the songs of birds. And just as the
                    whole realm of music is in seven tones of natural Sound, so the whole realm of
                    light is in a pictured Language of Design, Colour, and Method, with an intention
                    and a message, which we—we human beings—are intended to discover.
                    Yet with all these great mysteries waiting to be solved, the most of us are
                    content to eat and drink and sleep and breed and die, like the lowest cattle, in
                    brutish ignorance of more than half our intellectual privileges. I tell you,
                    El-Râmi, if I could only find out and place correctly one of those
                    light-vibrations, the rest might be easy."
                He heaved a profound sigh,—and the great Disc, circling steadily with its grave
                    monotonous hum, might have passed for the wheel of Fate which he, poor mortal,
                    was powerless to stop though it should grind him to atoms.
                
                El-Râmi watched him with interest and something of compassion for a minute or
                    two,—then he touched his arm gently.
                "Kremlin, is it not time for you to rest?" he asked kindly—"You have not slept
                    well for many nights,—you are tired out,—why not sleep now, and gather strength
                    for future labours?"
                The old man started, and a slight shiver ran through him.
                "You mean—?" he began.
                "I mean to do for you what I promised—" replied El-Râmi—"You asked me for this—"
                    and he held up the gold-stoppered flask he had brought in with him from the next
                    room—"It is all ready prepared for you—drink it, and to-morrow you will find
                    yourself a new man."
                Dr. Kremlin looked at him suspiciously—and then began to laugh with a sort of
                    hysterical nervousness.
                "I believe—" he murmured indistinctly and with affected jocularity—"I believe
                    that you want to poison me! Yes—yes!—to poison me and take all my discoveries
                    for yourself! You want to solve the great Star-  problem and take all the glory and rob me—yes, rob me of my hard-earned
                    fame!—yes—it is poison—poison!"
                And he chuckled feebly, and hid his face between his hands.
                El-Râmi heard him with an expression of pain and pity in his fine eyes.
                "My poor old friend—" he said gently—"You are wearied to death—so I pardon you
                    your sudden distrust of me. As for poison—see!" and he lifted the flask he held
                    to his lips and drank a few drops—"Have no fear! Your Star-problem is your
                    own,—and I desire that you should live long enough to read its great mystery. As
                    for me, I have other labours;—to me stars, solar systems, aye! whole Universes
                    are nothing,—my business is with the Spirit that dominates Matter—not with
                    Matter itself. Enough; will you live or will you die? It rests with yourself to
                    choose—for you are ill, Kremlin—very ill,—your brain is fagged and weak—you
                    cannot go on much longer like this. Why did you send for me if you do not
                    believe in me?"
                The old Doctor tottered to the window-  bench
                    and sat down,—then looking up, he forced a smile.
                "Don't you see for yourself what a coward I have become?" he said—"I tell you I
                    am afraid of everything;—of you—of myself—and worst of all, of
                    that—" and he pointed to the Disc—"which lately seems to have grown
                    stronger than I am." He paused a moment—then went on with an effort—"I had a
                    strange idea the other night,—I thought, suppose God, in the beginning, created
                    the Universe simply to divert Himself—just as I created my Dial there;—and
                    suppose it had happened that instead of being His servant as He originally
                    intended, it had become His master?—that He actually had no more power over it?
                    Suppose He were dead? We see that the works of men live ages after
                    their death,—why not the works of God? Horrible—horrible! Death is horrible! I
                    do not want to die, El-Râmi!" and his faint voice rose to a querulous wail—"Not
                    yet—not yet! I cannot!—I must finish my work—I must know—I must live—"
                "You shall live," interrupted El-Râmi. "Trust me—there is no death in
                        this!"
                
                He held up the mysterious flask again. Kremlin stared at it, shaking all over
                    with nervousness—then on a sudden impulse clutched it.
                "Am I to drink it all?" he asked faintly.
                El-Râmi bent his head in assent.
                Kremlin hesitated a moment longer—then with the air of one who takes a sudden
                    desperate resolve, he gave one eager yearning look at the huge revolving Disc,
                    and putting the flask to his lips, drained its contents. He had scarcely
                    swallowed the last drop, when he sprang to his feet, uttered a smothered cry,
                    staggered, and fell on the floor motionless. El-Râmi caught him up at once, and
                    lifted him easily in his strong arms on to the window-seat, where he laid him
                    down gently, placing coverings over him and a pillow under his head. The old
                    man's face was white and rigid as the face of a corpse, but he breathed easily
                    and quietly, and El-Râmi, knowing the action of the draught he had administered,
                    saw there was no cause for anxiety in his condition. He himself leaned on the
                    sill of the  great open window and looked out
                    at the starlit sky for some minutes, and listened to the sonorous plashing of
                    the waves on the shore below. Now and then he glanced back over his shoulder at
                    the great Dial and its shining star-patterns.
                "Only Lilith could decipher the meaning of it all," he mused. "Perhaps,—some
                    day—it might be possible to ask her. But then, do I in truth believe what she
                    tells me?-would he believe? The transcendentally uplifted soul of a
                    woman!—ought we to credit the message obtained through so ethereal a means? I
                    doubt it. We men are composed of such stuff that we must convince ourselves of a
                    fact by every known test before we finally accept it,—like St. Thomas, unless we
                    put our rough hand into the wounded side of Christ, and thrust our fingers into
                    the nail-prints, we will not believe. And I shall never resolve myself as to
                    which is the wisest course,—to accept everything with the faith of a child, or
                    dispute everything with the arguments of a controversialist. The child is
                    happiest; but then the question arises—Were we meant to  be happy? I think not,—since there is nothing that
                    can make us so for long."
                His brow clouded and he stood absorbed, looking at the stars, yet scarcely
                    conscious of beholding them. Happiness! It had a sweet sound,—an exquisite
                    suggestion; and his thoughts clung round it persistently as bees round honey.
                    Happiness!—What could engender it? The answer came unbidden to his brain—"Love!"
                    He gave an involuntary gesture of irritation, as though someone had spoken the
                    word in his ear.
                "Love!" he exclaimed half aloud. "There is no such thing—not on earth. There is
                    Desire,—the animal attraction of one body for another, which ends in disgust and
                    satiety. Love should have no touch of coarseness in it,—and can anything be
                    coarser than the marriage-tie?—the bond which compels a man and woman to live
                    together in daily partnership of bed and board, and reproduce their kind like
                    pigs, or other common cattle. To call that love is a sacrilege to
                    the very name,—for Love is a divine emotion, and demands divinest
                    comprehension."
                He went up to where Kremlin lay reclined,  —the
                    old man slept profoundly and peacefully,—his face had gained colour and seemed
                    less pinched and meagre in outline. EI-Râmi felt his pulse,—it beat regularly
                    and calmly. Satisfied with his examination, he wheeled away the great telescope
                    into a corner, and shut the window against the night air,—then he lay down
                    himself on the floor, with his coat rolled under him for a pillow, and composed
                    himself to sleep till morning.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XI.
                THE next day dawned in brilliant sunshine; the sea was
                    as smooth as a lake, and the air pleasantly warm and still. Dr. Kremlin's
                    servant Karl got up in a very excellent humour,—he had slept well, and he awoke
                    with the comfortable certainty of finding his eccentric master in better health
                    and spirits, as this was always the case after one of El-Râmi's rare visits. And
                    Karl, though he did not much appreciate learning, especially when the pursuit of
                    it induced people, as he said, to starve themselves for the sake of acquiring
                    wisdom, did feel in his own heart that there was something about El-Râmi that
                    was not precisely like other men, and he had accordingly for him not only a
                    great attraction, but a profound respect.
                
                "If anybody can do the Herr Doctor good, he can—" he thought, as he laid the
                    breakfast-table in the little dining-room whose French windows opened out to a
                    tiny green lawn fronting the sea,—"Certainly one can never cure old age,—that is
                    an ailment for which there is no remedy; but however old we are bound to get, I
                    don't see why we should not be merry over it and enjoy our meals to the last.
                    Now let me see—what have I to get ready—" and he enumerated on his
                    fingers—"Coffee—toast—rolls,—butter—eggs—fish,—I think that will do;—and if I
                    just put these few roses in the middle of the table to tempt the eye a bit,"—and
                    he suited the action to the word—"There now!—if the Herr Doctor can be pleased
                    at all—"
                "Breakfast, Karl! breakfast!" interrupted a clear cheerful voice, the sound of
                    which made Karl start with nervous astonishment. "Make haste, my good fellow! My
                    friend here has to catch an early train."
                Karl turned round, stared, and stood motionless, open-mouthed, and struck dumb
                    with sheer surprise. Could it be the old 
                    Doctor who spoke? Was it his master at all,—this hale, upright, fresh-faced
                    individual who stood before him, smiling pleasantly and giving his orders with
                    such a brisk air of authority? Bewildered and half afraid, he cast a desperate
                    glance at El-Râmi, who had also entered the room, and who, seeing his confusion,
                    made him a quick secret sign.
                "Yes—be as quick as you can, Karl," he said. "Your master has had a good night,
                    and is much better, as you see. We shall be glad of our breakfast; I told you we
                    should, last night. Don't keep us waiting!"
                "Yes, sir—no, sir!" stammered Karl, trying to collect his scattered senses and
                    staring again at Dr. Kremlin,—then, scarcely knowing whether he was on his head
                    or his heels, he scrambled out of the room into the passage, where he stood for
                    a minute stupefied and inert.
                "It must be devil's work!" he ejaculated amazedly. "Who but the devil could make
                    a man look twenty years younger in a single night? Yes—twenty years younger,—he
                    looks that, if he looks a day. God have mercy on us!—what will happen next—what
                         sort of a service have I got into?—Oh, my
                    poor mother!"
                This last was Karl's supremest adjuration,—when he could find nothing else to
                    say, the phrase "Oh, my poor mother!" came as naturally to his lips as the
                    familiar "D—n it!" from the mouth of an old swaggerer in the army or navy. He
                    meant nothing by it, except perhaps a vague allusion to the innocent days of his
                    childhood, when he was ignorant of the wicked ways of the wicked world, and when
                    "Oh, my poor mother!" had not the most distant idea as to what was going to
                    become of her hopeful first-born.
                Meantime, while he went down into the kitchen and bustled about there, getting
                    the coffee, frying the fish, boiling the eggs, and cogitating with his own
                    surprised and half-terrified self, Dr. Kremlin and his guest had stepped out
                    into the little garden together, and they now stood there on the grass-plot
                    surveying the glittering wide expanse of ocean before them. They spoke not a
                    word for some minutes,—then, all at once, Kremlin turned round and caught both
                    El-Râmi's  hands in his own and pressed them
                    fervently—there were tears in his eyes.
                "What can I say to you?" he murmured in a voice broken by strong emotion—"How can
                    I thank you? You have been as a god to me;—I live again,—I breathe again,—this
                    morning the world seems new to my eyes,—as new as though I had never seen it
                    before. I have left a whole cycle of years, with all their suffering and
                    bitterness, behind me, and I am ready now to commence life afresh."
                "That is well!" said El-Râmi gently, cordially returning the pressure of his
                    hands. "That is as it should be. To see your strength and vitality thus renewed,
                    is more than enough reward for me."
                "And do I really look younger?—am I actually changed in appearance?"
                    asked Kremlin eagerly.
                El-Râmi smiled. "Well, you saw poor Karl's amazement"—he replied. "He was afraid
                    of you, I think—and also of me. Yes, you are changed, though not miraculously
                    so. Your hair is as gray as ever,—the same furrows of thought are on your
                    face;—all that has occurred is the simple renewal of  the tissues, and revivifying of the blood,—and this
                    gives you the look of vigour and heartiness you have this morning."
                "But will it last?—will it last?" queried Kremlin anxiously.
                "If you follow my instructions, of course it will—" returned El-Râmi—"I will see
                    to that. I have left with you a certain quantity of the vital fluid,—all you
                    have to do is to take ten drops every third night, or inject it into your veins
                    if you prefer that method;—then,—as I told you,—you cannot die, except by
                    violence."
                "And no violence comes here"—said Kremlin with a smile, glancing round at the
                    barren yet picturesque scene—"I am as lonely as an unmated eagle on a rock,—and
                    the greater my solitude the happier I am. The world is very beautiful—that I
                    grant,—but the beings that inhabit it spoil it for me, albeit I am one of them.
                    And so I cannot die, except by violence? Almost I touch immortality! Marvellous
                    El-Râmi! You should be a king of nations!"
                "Too low a destiny!" replied El-Râmi—"I had rather be a ruler of planets."
                
                "Ah, there is your stumbling-block!" said Kremlin, with sudden seriousness,—"You
                    soar too high—you are never contented."
                "Content is impossible to the Soul," returned El-Râmi,—"Nothing is too high or
                    too low for its investigation. And whatever can be done,
                        should be done, in order that the whole gamut of life may be
                    properly understood by those who are forced to live it."
                "And do not you understand it?"
                "In part—yes. But not wholly. It is not sufficient to have traced the ripple of a
                    brain-wave through the air and followed its action and result with
                    exactitude,—nor is it entirely satisfactory to have all the secrets of physical
                    and mental magnetism, and attraction between bodies and minds, made clear and
                    easy without knowing the reason of these things. It is like the
                    light-vibrations on your Disc,—they come—and go; but one needs to know why and
                    whence they come and go. I know much—but I would fain know more."
                "But is not the pursuit of knowledge infinite?"
                
                "It may be—if infinity exists. Infinity is possible—and I believe in
                    it,—all the same I must prove it."
                "You will need a thousand life-times to fulfil such works as you attempt!"
                    exclaimed Kremlin.
                "And I will live them all;"—responded El-Râmi composedly—"I have sworn to let
                    nothing baffle me, and nothing shall!"
                Dr. Kremlin looked at him in vague awe,—the dark haughty handsome face spoke more
                    resolvedly than words.
                "Pardon me, El-Râmi"—he said with a little diffidence—"It seems a very personal
                    question to put, and possibly you may resent it, still I have often thought of
                    asking it. You are a very handsome and very fascinating man—you would be a fool
                    if you were not perfectly aware of your own attractiveness,—well, now tell
                    me—have you never loved anybody?—any woman?"
                The sleepy brilliancy of El-Râmi's fine eyes lightened with sudden laughter.
                "Loved a woman?—I?" he exclaimed—"The Fates forbid! What should I do
                    with the gazelles and kittens and toys of life, such  as women are? Of all animals on earth, they have the
                    least attraction for me. I would rather stroke a bird's wings than a woman's
                    hair, and the fragrance of a rose pressed against my lips is sweeter and more
                    sincere than any woman's kisses. As the females of the race, women are useful in
                    their way, but not interesting at any time—at least, not to me."
                "Do you not believe in love then?" asked Kremlin.
                "No. Do you?"
                "Yes,"—and Kremlin's voice was very tender and impressive—"I believe it is the
                    only thing of God in an almost godless world."
                El-Râmi shrugged his shoulders.
                "You talk like a poet. I, who am not poetical, cannot so idealize the physical
                    attraction between male and female, which is nothing but a law of nature, and is
                    shared by us in common with the beasts of the field."
                "I think your wisdom is in error there"—said Kremlin slowly—"Physical attraction
                    there is, no doubt—but there is something 
                    else—something more subtle and delicate, which escapes the analysis of both
                    philosopher and scientist. Moreover it is an imperative spiritual sense, as well
                    as a material craving,—the soul can no more be satisfied without love than the
                    body."
                "That is your opinion—" and El-Râmi smiled again,—"But you see a contradiction of
                    it in me. I am satisfied to be without love,—and certainly I never
                    look upon the ordinary woman of the day, without the disagreeable consciousness
                    that I am beholding the living essence of sensualism and folly."
                "You are very bitter," said Kremlin wonderingly—"Of course no "ordinary" woman
                    could impress you,—but there are remarkable women,—women of power and genius and
                    lofty ambition."
                "Les femmes incomprises—oh yes, I know!" laughed El-Râmi—"Troublesome creatures
                    all, both to themselves and others. Why do you talk on these subjects, my dear
                    Kremlin?—Is it the effect of your rejuvenated condition? I am sure there are
                    many more interesting matters worthy of discussion. I shall never love—not in
                    this planet; in some  other state of existence
                    I may experience the "divine" emotion. But the meannesses, vanities,
                    contemptible jealousies, and low spites of women such as inhabit this earth fill
                    me with disgust and repulsion,—besides, women are treacherous,—and I loathe
                    treachery."
                At that moment Karl appeared at the dining-room window as a sign that breakfast
                    was served, and they turned to go indoors.
                "All the same, El-Râmi—" persisted Kremlin, laying one hand on his friend's
                    arm—"Do not count on being able to escape the fate to which all humanity must
                    succumb—"
                "Death?" interposed El-Râmi lightly—"I have almost conquered that!"
                "Aye, but you cannot conquer Love!" said Kremlin impressively—"Love is stronger
                    than Death."
                El-Râmi made no answer,—and they went in to breakfast. They did full justice to
                    the meal, much to Karl's satisfaction, though he could not help stealing covert
                    glances at his master's changed countenance, which had become so much fresher
                    and younger since  the previous day. How such
                    a change had been effected he could not imagine, but on the whole he was
                    disposed to be content with the evident improvement.
                "Even if he is the devil himself—" he considered, his thoughts reverting to
                    El-Râmi—"I am bound to say that the devil is a kind-hearted fellow. There's no
                    doubt about that. I suppose I am an abandoned sinner only fit for the
                    burning—but if God insists on making us old and sick and miserable, and the
                    devil is able to make us young and strong and jolly, why let us be friends with
                    the devil, say I! Oh my poor mother!"
                With such curious emotions as these in his mind, it was rather difficult to
                    maintain a composed face, and wait upon the two gentlemen with that grave
                    deportment which it is the duty of every well-trained attendant to
                    assume,—however, he managed fairly well, and got accustomed at last to hand his
                    master a cup of coffee without staring at him till his eyes almost projected out
                    of his head.
                El-Râmi took his departure soon after breakfast, with a few recommendations to
                    his  friend not to work too hard on the
                    problems suggested by the Disc.
                "Ah, but I have now found a new clue;" said Kremlin triumphantly—"I found it in
                    sleep. I shall work it out in the course of a few weeks, I dare say—and I will
                    let you know if the result is successful. You see, thanks to you, my friend, I
                    have time now,—there is no need to toil with feverish haste and anxiety—death
                    that seemed so near, is thrust back in the distance—"
                "Even so!" said El-Râmi with a strange smile—"In the far, far distance,—baffled
                    and kept at bay. Oddly enough, there are some who say there is no death—"
                "But there is—there must be!—" exclaimed Kremlin quickly.
                El-Râmi raised his hand with a slight commanding gesture.
                "It is not a certainty—" he said—"inasmuch as there is NO certainty. And there is
                    no "Must-Be,"—there is only the Soul's "Shall-Be"!"
                And with these somewhat enigmatical words, he bade his friend farewell, and went
                    his way.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XII.
                IT was yet early in the afternoon when he arrived back
                    in London. He went straight home to his own house, letting himself in as usual
                    with his latch-key. In the hall he paused, listening. He half expected to hear
                    Féraz playing one of his delicious dreamy improvisations,—but there was not a
                    sound anywhere, and the deep silence touched him with an odd sense of
                    disappointment and vague foreboding. His study door stood slightly ajar,—he
                    pushed it wider open very noiselessly and looked in. His young brother was
                    there, seated in a chair near the window, reading. El-Râmi gazed at him
                    dubiously, with a slowly dawning sense that there was some alteration in his
                    appearance which he could not all at once comprehend.  Presently he realized that Féraz had evidently
                    yielded to some overwhelming suggestion of personal vanity, which had induced
                    him to put on more brilliant attire. He had changed his plain white linen garb
                    for one of richer material, composed in the same Eastern fashion,—he wore a
                    finely-chased gold belt, from which a gold-sheathed dagger depended,—and a few
                    gold ornaments gleamed here and there among the drawn silken folds of his upper
                    vest. He looked handsome enough for a new Agathon as he sat there apparently
                    absorbed in study,—the big volume he perused resting partly on his knee,—but
                    El-Râmi's brow contracted with sudden anger as he observed him from the
                    half-open doorway where he stood, himself unseen,—and his dark face grew very
                    pale. He threw the door back on its hinges with a clattering sound and entered
                    the room.
                "Féraz!"
                Féraz looked up, lifting his eyelids indifferently and smiling coldly.
                "What, El-Râmi! Back so early? I did not expect you till nightfall."
                "Did you not?" said his brother, advancing 
                    slowly—"Pray how was that? You know I generally return after a night's absence
                    early in the next day. Where is your usual word of welcome? What ails you? You
                    seem in a very odd humour!"
                "Do I?"—and Féraz stretched himself a little,—rose, yawning, and laid down the
                    volume he held on the table—"I am not aware of it myself, I assure you. How did
                    you find your old madman? And did you tell him you were nearly as mad as
                    he?"
                El-Râmi's eyes flashed indignant amazement and wrath.
                "Féraz!—What do you mean?"
                With a fierce impulsive movement Féraz turned and fully faced him,—all his forced
                    and feigned calmness gone to the winds,—a glowing picture of youth and beauty
                    and rage commingled.
                "What do I mean?" he cried—"I mean this! That I am tired of being your slave-your
                    "subject" for conjurer's tricks of mesmerism,—that from henceforth I resist your
                    power,—that I will not serve you—will not obey you—will not yield—no!—not an
                    inch of my liberty—to your influence,—that I am  a free man, as you are, and that I will have the full rights of both my
                    freedom and manhood. You shall play no more with me; I refuse to be your dupe as
                    I have been. This is what I mean!—and as I will have no deception or subterfuge
                    between us,—for I scorn a lie,—hear the truth from me at once;—I know your
                    secret—I have seen Her!"
                El-Râmi stood erect,—immovable;—he was very pale; his breath came and went
                    quickly—once his hand clenched, but he said nothing.
                "I have seen Her!" cried Féraz again, flinging up his arms with an ecstatic wild
                    gesture—"A creature fairer than any vision!—and you—you have the heart to bind
                    her fast in darkness and in nothingness,—you it is who have shut her sight to
                    the world,—you have made for her, through your horrible skill, a living death in
                    which she knows nothing, feels nothing, sees nothing, loves nothing! I tell you
                    it is a cursed deed you are doing,—a deed worse than murder—I would not have
                    believed it of you! I thought your experiments were all for good,—I never would
                    have deemed you capable of cruelty  to a
                    helpless woman! But I will release her from your spells,—she is too beautiful to
                    be made her own living monument,—Zaroba is right—she needs life—joy—love!—she
                    shall have them all;—through me!"
                He paused, out of breath with the heat and violence of his own emotions;—El-Râmi
                    stood, still immovably regarding him.
                "You may be as angered as you please"—went on Féraz with sullen passion—"I care
                    nothing now. It was Zaroba who bade me go up yonder and see her where she slept;
                    ... it was Zaroba—"
                "'The woman tempted me and I did eat—"' quoted El-Râmi coldly,—"Of course it was
                    Zaroba. No other than a woman could thus break a sworn word. Naturally it was
                    Zaroba,—the paid and kept slave of my service, who owes to me her very
                    existence,—who persuaded my brother to dishonour."
                "Dishonour!" and Féraz laid his hand with a quick, almost savage gesture on the
                    hilt of the dagger at his belt. El-Râmi's dark eyes blazed upon him
                    scornfully.
                "So soon a braggart of the knife?" he  said.
                    "What theatrical show is this? You—you—the poet, the dreamer, the musician—the
                    gentle lad whose life was one of peaceful and innocent reverie—are you so soon
                    changed to the mere swaggering puppy of manhood who pranks himself out in gaudy
                    clothing, and thinks by vulgar threatening to overawe his betters? If so, 'tis a
                    pity—but I shall not waste time in deploring it. Hear me, Féraz—I said
                    "dishonour,"—swallow the word as best you may, it is the only one that fits the
                    act of prying into secrets not your own. But I am not angered,—the mischief
                    wrought is not beyond remedy, and if it were there would be still less use in
                    bewailing it. What is done cannot be undone. Now tell me,—you say you have seen
                    Her. Whom have you seen?"
                Féraz regarded him amazedly.
                "Whom have I seen?" he echoed—"Whom should I see, if not the girl you keep locked
                    in those upper rooms,—a beautiful maiden, sleeping her life away, in cruel
                    darkness and ignorance of all things true and fair!"
                "An enchanted princess, to your fancy—"  said
                    El-Râmi derisively. "Well, if you thought so, and if you believed yourself to be
                    a new sort of Prince Charming, why, if she were only sleeping, did you not wake
                    her?"
                "Wake her?" exclaimed Féraz excitedly,—"Oh, I would have given my life to see
                    those fringed lids uplift and show the wonders of the eyes beneath! I called her
                    by every endearing name—I took her hands and warmed them in my own—I would have
                    kissed her lips—"
                "You dared not!" cried El-Râmi, fired beyond his own control, and making a fierce
                    bound towards him—"You dared not pollute her by your touch!"
                Féraz recoiled,—a sudden chill ran through his blood. His brother was transformed
                    with the passion that surged through him,—his eyes flashed—his lips quivered—his
                    very form seemed to tower up and tremble and dilate with rage.
                "El-Râmi!" he stammered nervously, feeling all his newly-born defiance and
                    bravado oozing away under the terrible magnetism of this man, whose fury was  nearly as electric as that of a sudden
                    thunderstorm,—"El-Râmi, I did no harm,—Zaroba was there beside me—"
                "Zaroba!" echoed El-Râmi furiously—"Zaroba would stand by and see an angel
                    violated, and think it the greatest happiness that could befall her sanctity! To
                    be of common clay, with household joys and kitchen griefs, is Zaroba's idea of
                    noble living. Oh rash unhappy Féraz! you say you know my secret—you do not know
                    it—you cannot guess it! Foolish, ignorant boy!—did you think yourself a new
                    Christ with power to raise the Dead?"
                "The dead?" muttered Féraz, with white lips—"The dead? She—the girl I saw—lives
                    and breathes..."
                "By my will alone!" said El-Râmi—"By my force—by my knowledge—by my
                    constant watchful care,—by my control over the subtle threads that connect
                    Spirit with Matter. Otherwise, according to all the laws of ordinary nature,
                    that girl is dead—she died in the Syrian desert six years ago!"
            
            
                CHAPTER XIII.
                AT these words, pronounced slowly and with emphatic
                    distinctness, Féraz staggered back dizzily and sank into a chair,—drops of
                    perspiration bedewed his forehead, and a sick faint feeling overcame him. He
                    said nothing,—he could find no words in which to express his mingled horror and
                    amazement. El-Râmi watched him keenly,—and presently Féraz, looking up, caught
                    the calm, full and fiery regard of his brother's eyes. With a smothered cry, he
                    raised his hands as though to shield himself from a blow.
                "I will not have it;"—he muttered faintly—"You shall not force my thoughts,—I
                    will believe nothing against my own will. You shall no longer delude my eyes and
                    ears—I have read—I know,—I know how such trickery is done!"
                
                El-Râmi uttered an impatient exclamation, and paced once or twice up and down the
                    room.
                "See here, Féraz;"—he said, suddenly stopping before the chair in which his
                    brother sat,-"I swear to you that I am not exercising one iota of my influence
                    upon you. When I do, I will tell you, that you may be prepared to resist me if
                    you choose. I am using no power of any kind upon you—be satisfied of that. But,
                    as you have forced your way into the difficult labyrinth of my life's work, it
                    is as well that you should have an explanation of what seems to you full of
                    mysterious evil and black magic. You accuse me of wickedness,—you tell me I am
                    guilty of a deed worse than murder. Now this is mere rant and nonsense,—you
                    speak in such utter ignorance of the facts, that I forgive you, as one is bound
                    to forgive all faults committed through sheer want of instruction. I do not
                    think I am a wicked man"—he paused, with an earnest, almost pathetic expression
                    on his face—"at least I strive not to be. I am ambitious and sceptical—and I am
                    not altogether convinced of there  being any
                    real intention of ultimate good in the arrangements of this world as they at
                    present exist,—but I work without any malicious intention; and without undue
                    boasting I believe I am as honest and conscientious as the best of my kind. But
                    that is neither here nor there,—as I said before, you have broken into a secret
                    not intended for your knowledge—and that you may not misunderstand me yet more
                    thoroughly than you seem to do, I will tell you what I never wished to bother
                    your brains with. For you have been very happy till now, Féraz—happy in the
                    beautiful simplicity of the life you led—the life of a poet and dreamer,—the
                    happiest life in the world!"
                He broke off, with a short sigh of mingled vexation and regret—then he seated
                    himself immediately opposite his brother and went on—
                "You were too young to understand the loss it was to us both when our parents
                    died,—or to know the immense reputation our father Nadir Zarânos had won
                    throughout the East for his marvellous skill in natural science and medicine. He
                    died in the prime  of his life,—our mother
                    followed him within a month,—and you were left to my charge,—you a child then,
                    and I almost a man. Our father's small but rare library came into my possession,
                    together with his own manuscripts treating of the scientific and spiritual
                    organization of Nature in all its branches,—and these opened such extraordinary
                    vistas of possibility to me as to what might be done if such and such theories
                    could be practically carried out and acted upon, that I became fired with the
                    ardour of discovery. The more I studied, the more convinced and eager I became
                    in the pursuit of such knowledge as is generally deemed supernatural, and beyond
                    the reach of all human inquiry. One or two delicate experiments in chemistry of
                    a rare and subtle nature were entirely successful,—and by-and-bye I began to
                    look about for a subject on whom I could practise the power I had attained.
                    There was no one whom I could personally watch and surround with my hourly
                    influence except yourself,—therefore I made my first great trial upon
                        you."
                Féraz moved uneasily in his chair,—his  face
                    wore a doubtful, half-sullen expression, but he listened to El-Râmi's every word
                    with vivid and almost painful interest.
                "At that time you were a mere boy—" pursued El-Râmi—"but strong and vigorous, and
                    full of the mischievous pranks and sports customary to healthy boyhood. I began
                    by slow degrees to educate you—not with the aid of schools or tutors—but simply
                    by my Will. You had a singularly unretentive brain,—you were never fond of
                    music—you would never read,—you had no taste for study. Your delight was to
                    ride—to swim like a fish,—to handle a gun—to race, to leap,—to play practical
                    jokes on other boys of your own age and fight them if they resented it;—all very
                    amusing performances no doubt, but totally devoid of intelligence. Judging you
                    dispassionately, I found that you were a very charming gamesome
                    animal,—physically perfect—with a Mind somewhere if one could only discover it,
                    and a Soul or Spirit behind the Mind—if one could only discover that also. I set
                    myself the task of finding out both these hidden portions of your
                    composition—and of not only finding them, but 
                    moulding and influencing them according to my desire and plan."
                A faint tremor shook the younger man's frame—but he said nothing.
                "You are attending to me closely, I hope?" said El-Râmi pointedly—"because you
                    must distinctly understand that this conversation is the first and last we shall
                    have on the matter. After to-day, the subject must drop between us forever, and
                    I shall refuse to answer any more questions. You hear?"
                Féraz bent his head.
                "I hear—" he answered with an effort—"And what I hear seems strange and
                    terrible!"
                "Strange and terrible?" echoed El-Râmi. "How so? What is there strange or
                    terrible in the pursuit of Wisdom? Yet—perhaps you are right, and the blank
                    ignorance of a young child is best,—for there is something
                    appalling in the infinitude of knowledge—an infinitude which must remain
                    infinite, if it be true that there is a God who is forever thinking, and whose
                    thoughts become realities."
                He paused, with a rapt look,—then resumed in the same even tone,—
                
                "When I had made up my mind to experimentalize upon you, I lost no time in
                    commencing my work. One of my chief desires was to avoid the least risk of
                    endangering your health—your physical condition was admirable, and I resolved to
                    keep it so. In this I succeeded. I made life a joy to you—the mere act of
                    breathing a pleasure—you grew up before my eyes like the vigorous sapling of an
                    oak that rejoices in the mere expansion of its leaves to the fresh air. The
                    other and more subtle task was harder,—it needed all my patience—all my
                    skill,-but I was at last rewarded. Through my concentrated influence, which
                    surrounded you as with an atmosphere in which you moved, and slept, and woke
                    again, and which forced every fibre of your brain to respond to mine, the animal
                    faculties which were strongest in you, became subdued and tamed,—and the mental
                    slowly asserted themselves. I resolved you should be a poet and musician—you
                    became both;—you developed an ardent love of study, and every few months that
                    passed gave richer promise of your ripening intelligence. Moreover, you were
                    happy,—  happy in everything—happiest perhaps
                    in your music, which became your leading passion. Having thus, unconsciously to
                    yourself, fostered your mind by the silent workings of my own, and trained it to
                    grow up like a flower to the light, I thought I might make my next attempt,
                    which was to probe for that subtle essence we call the Soul—the large wings that
                    are hidden in the moth's chrysalis;—and influence that too;—but there—there by
                    some inexplicable opposition of forces, I was baffled."
                Féraz raised himself half out of his chair, his lips parted in breathless
                    eagerness—his eyes dilated and sparkling.
                "Baffled?" he repeated hurriedly—"How do you mean?—in what way?"
                "Oh, in various ways—" replied El-Râmi, looking at him with a somewhat melancholy
                    expression—"Ways that I myself am not able to comprehend. I found I could
                    influence your Inner Self to obey me,—but only to a very limited extent, and in
                    mere trifles,—for example, as you yourself know, I could compel you to come to
                    me from a certain distance in response to my thought,  —but in higher things you escaped me. You became
                    subject to long trances,—this I was prepared for, as it was partially my
                    work,—and during these times of physical unconsciousness, it was evident that
                    your Soul enjoyed a life and liberty superior to anything these earth-regions
                    can offer. But you could never remember all you saw in these absences,—indeed,
                    the only suggestions you seem to have brought away from that other state of
                    existence are the strange melodies you play sometimes, and that idea you have
                    about your native Star."
                A curious expression flitted across Féraz's face as he heard—and his lips parted
                    in a slight smile, but he said nothing.
                "Therefore,"—pursued his brother meditatively—"as I could get no clear exposition
                    of other worlds from you, as I had hoped to do, I knew I had failed to command
                    you in a spiritual sense. But my dominance over your Mind continued; it
                    continues still,—nay, my good Féraz!"—this, as Féraz seemed about to utter some
                    impetuous word—"Pray that you may never be able to shake off my force
                    entirely,—for if you do, you will lose what 
                    the people of a grander and poetic day called Genius—and what the miserable
                    Dry-as-Dusts of our modern era call Madness—the only gift of the gods that has
                    ever served to enlighten and purify the world. But your genius,
                    Féraz, belongs to me;—I gave it to you, and I can take it back
                    again if I so choose;—and leave you as you originally were—a handsome animal
                    with no more true conception of art or beauty than my Lord Melthorpe, or his
                    spendthrift young cousin Vaughan."
                Féraz had listened thus far in silence,—but now he sprang out of his chair with a
                    reckless gesture.
                "I cannot bear it!" he said—"I cannot bear it! El-Râmi, I cannot—I will not!"
                "Cannot bear what?" inquired his brother with a touch of satire in his tone—"Pray
                    be calm!—there is no necessity for such melodramatic excitement. Cannot bear
                    what?"
                "I will not owe everything to you!" went on Féraz, passionately—"How can I endure
                    to know that my very thoughts are not my own, but emanate from you?—that my
                    music has been instilled into me by you?—that you  possess me by your power, body and brain,—great
                    Heaven! it is awful—intolerable—impossible!"
                El-Râmi rose and laid one hand gently on his shoulder—he recoiled
                    shudderingly—and the elder man sighed heavily.
                "You tremble at my touch,—" he said sadly—"the touch of a hand that has never
                    wilfully wrought you harm, but has always striven to make life beautiful to you?
                    Well!—be it so!—you have only to say the word, Féraz, and you shall owe me
                    nothing. I will undo all I have done,—and you shall reassume the existence for
                    which Nature originally made you—an idle voluptuous wasting of time in
                    sensualism and folly. And even that form of life you must owe to
                    Someone,—even that you must account for—to God!"
                The young man's head drooped,—a faint sense of shame stirred in him, but he was
                    still resentful and sullen.
                "What have I done to you," went on El-Râmi, "that you should turn from me thus,
                    all because you have seen a dead woman's face for an hour? I have made your
                    thoughts  harmonious—I have given you pleasure
                    such as the world's ways cannot give—your mind has been as a clear mirror in
                    which only the fairest visions of life were reflected. You would alter
                    this?—then do so, if you decide thereon,—but weigh the matter well and long,
                    before you shake off my touch, my tenderness, my care."
                His voice faltered a little—but he quickly controlled his emotion, and
                    continued—
                "I must ask you to sit down again and hear me out patiently to the end of my
                    story. At present I have only told you what concerns yourself—and how the
                    failure of my experiment upon the spiritual part of your nature, obliged me to
                    seek for another subject on whom to continue my investigations. As far as you
                    are personally concerned, no failure is apparent—for your spirit is allowed
                    frequent intervals of supernatural freedom, in which you have experiences that
                    give you peculiar pleasure, though you are unable to impart them to me with
                    positive lucidity. You visit a Star—so you say—with which you really seem to
                    have some home connection—but you never get beyond this, so that it would  appear that any higher insight is denied you.
                    Now what I needed to obtain, was not only a higher insight, but the highest
                    knowledge that could possibly be procured through a mingled combination of
                    material and spiritual essences, and it was many a long and weary day before I
                    found what I sought. At last my hour came—as it comes to all who have the
                    patience and fortitude to wait for it."
                He paused a moment—then went on more quickly—
                "You remember of course that occasion of which we chanced upon a party of Arab
                    wanderers who were journeying across the Syrian desert?—all poor and ailing, and
                    almost destitute of food or water?"
                "I remember it perfectly!" and Féraz, seating himself opposite his brother again,
                    listened with renewed interest and attention.
                "They had two dying persons with them," continued El-Râmi—"An elderly woman—a
                    widow, known as Zaroba,—the other an orphan girl of about twelve years of age
                    named Lilith. Both were perishing of fever and famine. I came to the rescue. I
                    saved Zaroba,—and she, with the passionate 
                        im-
                        impulsiveness
                    
                     pulsiveness of her race, threw herself in
                    gratitude at my feet, and swore by all her most sacred beliefs that she would be
                    my slave from henceforth as long as she lived. All her people were dead, she
                    told me—she was alone in the world—she prayed me to let her be my faithful
                    servant. And truly, her fidelity has never failed—till now. But of that
                    hereafter. The child Lilith, more fragile of frame and weakened to the last
                    extremity of exhaustion—in spite of my unremitting care—died. Do you thoroughly
                    understand me—she died."
                "She died!" repeated Féraz slowly—"Well—what then?"
                "I was supporting her in my arms"—said El-Râmi, the ardour of his description
                    growing upon him, and his black eyes dilating and burning like great jewels
                    under the darkness of his brows—"when she drew her last breath and sank back—a
                    corpse. But before her flesh had time to stiffen,—before the warmth had gone out
                    of her blood,—an idea, wild and daring, flashed across my mind. "If this child
                    has a Soul," I said to myself—"I will stay it in its flight from hence! It  shall become the new Ariel of my wish and
                    will—and not till it has performed my bidding to the utmost extent will I, like
                    another Prospero, give it its true liberty. And I will preserve the body, its
                    mortal shell, by artificial means, that through its medium I may receive the
                    messages of the Spirit in mortal language such as I am able to understand." No
                    sooner had I conceived my bold project than I proceeded to carry it into
                    execution. I injected into the still warm veins of the dead girl a certain fluid
                    whose properties I alone know the working of—and then I sought and readily
                    obtained permission from the Arabs to bury her in the desert, while they went on
                    their way. They were in haste to continue their journey, and were grateful to me
                    for taking this office off their hands. That very day—the day the girl died—I
                    sent you from me, as you know, bidding you make all possible speed,
                    on an errand which I easily invented, to the Brethren of the Cross in the Island
                    of Cyprus,—you went obediently enough,—surprised perhaps, but suspecting
                    nothing. That same evening when the heats abated and the moon rose, the caravan 
                        re-
                        resumed
                    
                     sumed its pilgrimage, leaving Lilith's dead
                    body with me, and also the woman Zaroba, who volunteered to remain and serve me
                    in my tent, an offer which I accepted, seeing that it was her own desire, and
                    that she would be useful to me. She, poor silly soul, took me then for a sort of
                    god, because she was unable to understand the miracle of her own recovery from
                    imminent death, and I felt certain I could rely upon her fidelity. Part of my
                    plan I told her,—she heard with mingled fear and reverence,—the magic of the
                    East was in her blood, however, and she had a superstitious belief that a truly
                    "wise man" could do anything. So, for several days we stayed encamped in the
                    desert—I passing all my hours beside the dead Lilith,—dead, but to a certain
                    extent living through artificial means. As soon as I received proof positive
                    that my experiment was likely to be successful, I procured means to continue my
                    journey on to Alexandria, and thence to England. To all enquirers I said the
                    girl was a patient of mine who was suffering from epileptic trances, and the
                    presence of Zaroba, who filled her post 
                    admirably as nurse and attendant, was sufficient to stop the mouths of would-be
                    scandal-mongers. I chose my residence in London, because it is the largest city
                    in the world, and the one most suited to pursue a course of study in, without
                    one's motives becoming generally known. One can be more alone in London than in
                    a desert if one chooses. Now, you know all. You have seen the dead Lilith,—the
                    human chrysalis of the moth,—but there is a living Lilith too—the Soul of
                    Lilith, which is partly free and partly captive, but in both conditions is
                    always the servant of my Will!"
                Féraz looked at him in mingled awe and fear.
                "El-Râmi,"—he said tremulously—"What you tell me is wonderful—terrible—almost
                    beyond belief,—but, I know something of your power and I must believe you.
                    Only—surely you are in error when you say that Lilith is dead? How can she be
                    dead, if you have given her life?"
                "Can you call that life which sleeps perpetually and will not wake?" demanded
                    El-Râmi.
                
                "Would you have her wake?" asked Féraz, his heart beating quickly.
                El-Râmi bent his burning gaze upon him.
                "Not so,—for if she wakes, in the usual sense of waking—she dies a second death
                    from which there can be no recall. There is the terror of the thing. Zaroba's
                    foolish teaching, and your misguided yielding to her temptation, might have
                    resulted in the fatal end to my life's best and grandest work. But—I forgive
                    you;—you did not know,—and she—she did not wake."
                "She did not wake," echoed Féraz softly. "No—but—she smiled!"
                El-Râmi still kept his eyes fixed upon him,—there was an odd sense of irritation
                    in his usually calm and coldly balanced organization—a feeling he strove in vain
                    to subdue. She smiled!—the exquisite Lilith—the life-in-death Lilith smiled,
                    because Féraz had called her by some endearing name! Surely it could not be!—and
                    smothering his annoyance, he turned towards the writing-table and feigned to
                    arrange some books and papers there.
                "El-Râmi—" murmured Féraz again, but 
                    timidly—"If she was a child when she died as you say—how is it she has grown to
                    womanhood?"
                "By artificial vitality,"—said El-Râmi—"As a flower is forced under a
                    hot-house,—and with no more trouble, and less consciousness of effort than a
                    rose under a glass dome."
                "Then she lives,—" declared Féraz impetuously. "She lives,—artificial or natural,
                    she has vitality. Through your power she exists, and if you chose,
                    oh, if you chose, El-Râmi, you could wake her to the fullest life—to perfect
                    consciousness,—to joy—to love!—Oh, she is in a blessed trance—you cannot call
                    her dead!"
                El-Râmi turned upon him abruptly.
                "Be silent!" he said sternly—"I read your thoughts,—control them, if you are
                    wise! You echo Zaroba's prating—Zaroba's teaching. Lilith is dead, I tell
                    you,—dead to you,—and, in the sense you mean—dead to me."
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIV.
                AFTER this, a long silence fell between them. Féraz
                    sat moodily in his chair, conscious of a certain faint sense of shame. He was
                    sorry that he had wilfully trespassed upon his brother's great secret,—and yet
                    there was an angry pride in him,—a vague resentment at having been kept so long
                    in ignorance of this wonderful story of Lilith,—which made him reluctant to
                    acknowledge himself in the wrong. Moreover, his mind was possessed and haunted
                    by Lilith's face,—the radiant face that looked like that of an angel
                    sleeping,—and perplexedly thinking over all he had heard, he wondered if he
                    would ever again have the opportunity of beholding what had seemed to him the
                    incarnation of ideal loveliness. Surely yes!—Zaroba would be his  friend,—Zaroba would let him gaze his fill on that
                    exquisite form—would let him touch that little, ethereally delicate hand, as
                    soft as velvet and as white as snow! Absorbed in these reflections, he scarcely
                    noticed that El-Râmi had moved away from him to the writing-table, and that he
                    now sat there in his ebony chair, turning over the leaves of the curious Arabic
                    volume which Féraz had had such trouble in deciphering on the previous day. The
                    silence in the room continued; outside there was the perpetual sullen roar of
                    raging restless London,—now and again the sharp chirruping of contentious
                    sparrows, arguing over a crumb of food as parliamentary agitators chatter over a
                    crumb of difference, stirred the quiet air. Féraz stretched himself and
                    yawned,—he was getting sleepy, and as he realized this fact, he nervously
                    attributed it to his brother's influence, and sprang up abruptly, rubbing his
                    eyes and pushing his thick hair from his brows. At his hasty movement, El-Râmi
                    turned slowly towards him with a grave yet kindly smile.
                "Well, Féraz"—he said—"Do you still  think me
                    "wicked" now you know all? Speak frankly—do not be afraid."
                Féraz paused, irresolute.
                "I do not know what to think—" he answered hesitatingly,—"Your experiment is of
                    course wonderful,—but—as I said before—to me, it seems terrible."
                "Life is terrible—" said El-Râmi—"Death is terrible,—Love is terrible,—God is
                    terrible. All Nature's pulses beat to the note of Terror,—terror of the Unknown
                    that May Be,—terror of the Known that Is!"
                His deep voice rang with impressive solemnity through the room,—his eyes were
                    full of that strange lurid gleam which gave them the appearance of having a
                    flame behind them.
                "Come here, Féraz," he continued—"Why do you stand at so cautious a distance from
                    me? With that brave show-dagger at your belt, are you a coward? Silly lad!—I
                    swear to you my influence shall not touch you unless I warn you of it
                    beforehand. Come!"
                Féraz obeyed, but slowly and with an uncertain step. His brother looked at him
                         attentively as he came,—then, with a
                    gesture indicating the volume before him, he said—"You found this book on my
                    table yesterday and tried to read it,—is it not so?"
                 "I did."
                "Well, and have you learnt anything from it?" pursued El-Râmi with a strange
                    smile.
                "Yes. I learnt how the senses may be deceived by trickery—" retorted Féraz with
                    some heat and quickness—"and how a clever magnetizer—like yourself—may fool the
                    eye and delude the ear with sights and sounds that have no existence."
                "Precisely. Listen to this passage;"—and El-Râmi read aloud—"'The King when he
                    had any affair, assembled the Priests without the City Memphis, and the People
                    met together in the streets of the said City. Then they (the Priests) made their
                    entrance one after another in order, the drum beating before them to bring the
                    people together; and every-one made some miraculous discovery of his Magick and
                    Wisdom. One had, to their thinking who looked on him, his face
                    surrounded with a light like that of the Sun, so that none could look earnestly
                    upon  him. Another seemed clad with a Robe
                    beset with precious stones of divers colours, green, red, or yellow, or wrought
                    with gold. Another came mounted on a Lion compassed with Serpents like Girdles.
                    Another came in covered with a canopy or pavilion of Light. Another appeared
                    surrounded with Fire turning about him, so as that nobody durst come near him.
                    Another was seen with dreadful birds perching about his head and shaking their
                    wings like black eagles and vultures. In fine, everyone did what was taught
                        him;—yet all was but Apparition and Illusion without any
                        reality, insomuch that when they came up to the King they spake thus
                    to him:—You imagined that it was so-and-so,—but the truth is that it was
                        such or such a thing."* The A
                    B C of magnetism is contained in the last words—" continued El-Râmi lifting his
                    eyes from the book,—"The merest tyro in the science * This remarkable passage on the
                        admitted effects of hypnotism as practised by the priests of ancient Egypt,
                        will be found in an old history of the building of the Pyramids
                        entitled—"The Egyptian Account of the Pyramids"—Written in the Arabic by
                        Murtadi the son of Gaphiphus—date about 1400.
                     knows that; and also realizes that the
                    Imagination is the centre of both physical and bodily health or disease. And did
                    you learn nothing more?"
                Féraz made a half-angry gesture in the negative.
                "What a pity!"—and his brother surveyed him with good-humoured compassion—"To
                    know how a "miracle" is done is one thing—but to do it is quite another matter.
                    Now let me recall to your mind what I previously told you—that from this day
                    henceforth, I forbid you to make any allusion to the subject of my work. I
                    forbid you to mention the name of Lilith,—and I forbid you to approach or to
                    enter the room where her body lies. You understand me?—I forbid you!"
                Féraz's eyes flashed angry opposition, and he drew himself up with a haughty
                    self-assertiveness.
                "You forbid me!" he echoed proudly—"What right have you to forbid me anything?
                    And how if I refuse to obey?"
                El-Râmi rose and confronted him, one hand resting on the big Arabic volume.
                
                "You will not refuse—" he said—"because I will take no refusal. You will obey,
                    because I exact your obedience. Moreover, you will swear by the Most Holy Name
                    of God, that you will never, either to me, or to any other living soul, speak a
                    syllable concerning my life's greatest experiment,—you will swear that the name
                    of Lilith shall never pass your lips—"
                But here Féraz interrupted him.
                "El-Râmi, I will not swear!" he cried desperately—"The name of
                    Lilith is sweet to me!—why should I not utter it,—why should I not sing of
                    it—why should I not even remember it in my prayers?"
                A terrible look darkened El-Râmi's countenance; his brows contracted darkly, and
                    his lips drew together in a close resolute line.
                "There are a thousand reasons why—" he said in low fierce accents,—"One is, that
                    the soul of Lilith and the body of Lilith are mine, and that you
                    have no share in their possession. She does not need your songs—still less has
                    she need of your prayers. Rash fool!—you shall forget the name of  Lilith—and you shall swear, as I command
                    you. Resist my will if you can,—now!—I warn you in time!"
                He seemed to grow in height as he spoke,—his eyes blazed ominously, and Féraz,
                    meeting that lightning-like glance, knew how hopeless it would be for him to
                    attempt to oppose such an intense force as was contained in this man's
                    mysterious organization. He tried his best,—but in vain,—with every second he
                    felt his strength oozing out of him—his power of resistance growing less and
                    less.
                "Swear!" said El-Râmi imperatively—"Swear in God's Name to keep my secret—swear
                    by Christ's Death!—swear on this!"
                And he held out a small golden crucifix.
                Mechanically, but still devoutly, Féraz instantly dropped on one knee, and kissed
                    the holy emblem.
                "I swear!" he said—but as he spoke, the rising tears were in his throat, and he
                    murmured—"Forget the name of Lilith!—never!"
                "In God's Name!" said El-Râmi.
                "In God's Name!"
                
                "By Christ's Death!"
                Féraz trembled. In the particular form of religion professed by himself and his
                    brother, this was the most solemn and binding vow that could be taken. And his
                    voice was faint and unsteady as he repeated it—
                "By Christ's Death!"
                El-Râmi put aside the crucifix.
                "That is well;—" he said, in mild accents which contrasted agreeably with his
                    previous angry tone—"Such oaths are chronicled in heaven, remember,—and whoever
                    breaks his sworn word is accursed of the gods. But you,—you will keep your vow,
                    Féraz,—and ... you will also forget the name of Lilith,—if I choose!"
                Féraz stood mute and motionless,—he would have said something, but somehow words
                    failed him to express what was in his mind. He was angry, he said to himself,—he
                    had sworn a foolish oath against his will, and he had every right to be
                    angry—very angry, but with whom? Surely not with his brother—his friend,—his
                    protector for so many years? As he thought of this, shame and penitence and old
                    affection grew stronger  and welled up in his
                    heart, and he moved slowly towards El-Râmi, with hands outstretched.
                "Forgive me;"—he said humbly. "I have offended you—I am sorry. I will show my
                    repentance in whatever way you please,—but do not, El-Râmi—do not ask me, do not
                    force me to forget the name of Lilith,—it is like a note in music, and it cannot
                    do you harm that I should think of it sometimes. For the rest I will obey you
                    faithfully,—and for what is past, I ask your pardon."
                El-Râmi took his hands and pressed them affectionately in his own.
                "No sooner asked than granted—" he said—"You are young, Féraz,—and I am not so
                    harsh as you perhaps imagine. The impulsiveness of youth should always be
                    quickly pardoned—seeing how gracious a thing youth is, and how short a time it
                    lasts. Keep your poetic dreams and fancies—take the sweetness of thought without
                    its bitterness,—and if you are content to have it so, let me still help to guide
                    your fate. If not, why, nothing is easier than to part company,  part as good friends and brethren always,—you on your
                    chosen road and I on mine,—who knows but that after all you might not be happier
                    so?"
                Féraz lifted his dark eyes, heavy with unshed tears.
                "Would you send me from you?" he asked falteringly.
                "Not I! I would not send you,—but you might wish to go."
                "Never!" said Féraz resolutely—"I feel that I must stay with you—till the
                    end."
                He uttered the last words with a sigh, and El-Râmi looked at him curiously.
                "Till the end?"—he repeated—"What end?"
                "Oh, the end of life or death or anything;" replied Féraz with forced
                    lightness—"There must surely be an end somewhere, as there was a beginning."
                "That is rather a doubtful problem!" said El-Râmi—"The great question is, was
                    there ever a Beginning? and will there ever be an End?"
                Féraz gave a languid gesture.
                "You inquire too far,"—he said wearily—  "I
                    always think you inquire too far. I cannot follow you—I am tired. Do you want
                    anything?—can I do anything? or may I go to my room? I want to be alone for a
                    little while, just to consider quietly what my life is, and what I can make of
                    it."
                "A truly wise and philosophical subject of meditation!" observed El-Râmi, and he
                    smiled kindly and held out his hand. Féraz laid his own slender fingers somewhat
                    listlessly in that firm warm palm;—then—with a sudden start, looked eagerly
                    around him. The air seemed to have grown denser,—there was a delicious scent of
                    roses in the room, and hush! ... What entrancing voices were those that sang in
                    the distance? He listened absorbed;—the harmonies were very sweet and
                    perfect—almost he thought he could distinguish words. Loosening his hand from
                    his brother's clasp, the melody seemed to grow fainter and fainter,—recognising
                    this, he roused himself with a quick movement, his eyes flashing with a sudden
                    gleam of defiance.
                "More magic music!" he said—"I hear the sound of singing, and you
                        know that I  hear it! I
                    understand!—it is imagined music—your work, El-Râmi,—your skill. It
                    is wonderful, beautiful,—and you are the most marvellous man on earth!—you
                    should have been a priest of old Egypt! Yes—I am tired—I will rest;—I will
                    accept the dreams you offer me for what they are worth,—but I must remember that
                    there are realities as well as dreams,—and I shall not forget the name
                    of—Lilith!"
                He smiled audaciously, looking as graceful as a pictured Adonis in the careless
                    yet proud attitude he had unconsciously assumed,—then with a playful yet
                    affectionate salutation he moved to the doorway.
                "Call me if you want me," he said.
                "I shall not want you;"—replied his brother, regarding him steadily.
                The door opened and closed again,—Féraz was gone.
                Shutting up the great volume in front of him, El-Râmi rested his arms upon it,
                    and stared into vacancy with darkly-knitted brows.
                "What premonition of evil is there in the air?" he muttered—"What restless
                    emotion  is at work within me? Are the Fates
                    turning against me?—and am I after all nothing but the merest composition of
                    vulgar matter—a weak human wretch capable of being swayed by changeful passions?
                    What is it? What am I that I should vex my spirit thus—all because Lilith smiled
                    at the sound of a voice that was not mine!"
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XV.
                JUST then there came a light tap at his door. He
                    opened it,—and Zaroba stood before him. No repentance for her fault of
                    disobedience and betrayal of trust, clouded that withered old face of hers,—her
                    deep-set dark eyes glittered with triumph, and her whole aspect was one of
                    commanding, and almost imperious dignity. In fact, she made such an ostentatious
                    show of her own self-importance in her look and manner that El-Râmi stared at
                    her for a moment in haughty amazement at what he considered her effrontery in
                    thus boldly facing him after her direct violation of his commands. He eyed her
                    up and down—she returned him glance for glance unquailingly.
                "Let me come in—" she said in her strong  harsh
                    voice—"I make no doubt but that the poor lad Féraz has told you his story—now,
                    as God liveth, you must hear mine."
                El-Râmi turned upon his heel with a contemptuous movement, and went back to his
                    own chair by the writing-table. Zaroba, paying no heed to the wrath conveyed by
                    this mute action, stalked in also, and shutting the door after her, came and
                    stood close beside him.
                "Write down what you think of me—" she said, pointing with her yellow forefinger
                    at the pens and paper—"Write the worst. I have betrayed my trust. That is true.
                    I have disobeyed your commands after keeping them for six long years. True
                    again. What else?"
                El-Râmi fixed his eyes upon her, a world of indignation and reproach in their
                    brilliant depths, and snatching up a pencil he wrote on a slip of paper
                    rapidly—
                "Nothing else—nothing more than treachery! You are unworthy of your sacred task
                    you are false to your sworn fidelity."
                Zaroba read the lines as quickly as he wrote them, but when she came to the last
                         words she made a swift gesture of denial
                    and drew herself up haughtily.
                "No—not false!" she said passionately—"Not false to you, El-Râmi, I
                    swear! I would slay myself rather than do you wrong. You saved my life, though
                    my life was not worth saving, and for that gentle deed I would pour out every
                    drop of my blood to requite you. No, no! Zaroba is not false—she is true!"
                She tossed up her arms wildly,—then suddenly folding them tight across her chest,
                    she dropped her voice to a gentler and more appealing tone.
                "Hear me, El-Râmi!—Hear me, wise man and Master of the magic of the East!—I have
                    done well for you;—well! I have disobeyed you for your own sake,—I have betrayed
                    my trust that you may discover how and where you may find your best reward. I
                    have sinned with the resolved intent to make you happy,—as God liveth, I speak
                    truth from my heart and soul!"
                El-Râmi turned towards her, his face expressing curiosity in spite of himself. He
                    was very pale, and outwardly he was calm 
                    enough—but his nerves were on the rack of suspense—he wondered what sudden
                    frenzied idea had possessed this woman that she should comport herself as though
                    she held some strange secret of which the very utterance might move heaven and
                    earth to wonderment. Controlling his feelings with an effort, he wrote
                    again—
                "There exists no reason for disloyalty. Your excuses avail nothing—let me hear no
                    more of them. Tell me of Lilith—what news?"
                "News!" repeated Zaroba scornfully—"What news should there be? She breathes and
                    sleeps as she has breathed and slept always—she has not stirred. There is no
                    harm done by my bidding Féraz look on her,—no change is wrought except in
                        you, El-Râmi!—except in you!"
                Half springing from his chair he confronted her—then recollecting her deafness,
                    he bit his lips angrily and sank back again with an assumed air of
                    indifference.
                "You have heard Féraz—" pursued Zaroba, with that indescribable triumph of hers
                    lighting up her strong old face—"You must now 
                    hear me. I thank the gods that my ears are closed to the sound of human voices,
                    and that neither reproach nor curse can move me to dismay. And I am ignorant of
                        your magic, El-Râmi,—the magic that chills the blood and sends
                    the spirit flitting through the land of dreams,—the only magic I
                    know is the magic of the heart—of the passions,—a natural witchcraft that
                    conquers the world!"
                She waved her arms to and fro—then crossing them on her bosom, she made a
                    profound half-mocking salutation.
                "Wise El-Râmi Zarânos!" she said. "Proud ruler of the arts and sciences that
                    govern Nature,—have you ever, with all your learning, taken the measure of your
                    own passions, and slain them so utterly that they shall never rise up again?
                    They sleep at times, like the serpents of the desert, coiled up in many a secret
                    place,—but at the touch of some unwary heel, some casual falling pebble, they
                    unwind their lengths-they raise their glittering heads, and sting! I, Zaroba,
                    have felt them here"—and she pressed her hands more closely on her breast—"I
                    have felt their poison in my  blood—sweet
                    poison, sweeter than life!—their stings have given me all the joy my days have
                    ever known. But it is not of myself that I should speak—it is of you—of you,
                    whose life is lonely, and for whom the coming years hold forth no prospect of
                    delight. When I lay dying in the desert and you restored me to strength again, I
                    swore to serve you with fidelity. As God liveth, El-Râmi, I have kept my
                    vow,—and in return for the life you gave me I bid you take what is yours to
                    claim—the love of Lilith!"
                El-Râmi rose out of his chair, white to the lips, and his hand shook. If he could
                    have concentrated his inward forces at that moment, he would have struck Zaroba
                    dumb by one effort of his will, and so put an end to her undesired
                    eloquence,—but something, he knew not what, disturbed the centre of his
                    self-control, and his thoughts were in a whirl. He despised himself for the
                    unusual emotion which seized him—inwardly he was furious with the garrulous old
                    woman,—but outwardly he could only make her an angry imperative sign to be
                    silent.
                
                "Nay, I will not cease from speaking—" said Zaroba imperturbably—"for all has to
                    be said now, or never. The love of Lilith! imagine it, El-Râmi!—the clinging of
                    her young white arms—the kisses of her sweet red mouth,—the open glances of her
                    innocent eyes—all this is yours, if you but say the word. Listen! For six and
                    more long years I have watched her,—and I have watched you. She has
                    slept the sleep of death-in-life, for you have willed it so,—and in that sleep,
                    she has imperceptibly passed from childhood to womanhood. You—cold as a man of
                    bronze or marble,—have made of her nothing but a "subject" for your science,—and
                    never a breath of love or longing on your part, or even admiration for her
                    beauty, has stirred the virgin-trance in which she lies. And I have marvelled at
                    it—I have thought—and I have prayed;—the gods have answered me, and now I
                    know!"
                She clapped her hands ecstatically, and then went on.
                "The child Lilith died,—but you, El-Râmi, you caused her to live again. And  she lives still—yes, though it may suit your
                    fancy to declare her dead. She is a woman—you are a man;—you dare not keep her
                    longer in that living death—you dare not doom her to perpetual darkness!—the
                    gods would curse you for such cruelty, and who may abide their curse? I, Zaroba,
                    have sworn it—Lilith shall know the joys of love!—and you, El-Râmi Zarânos,
                    shall be her lover!—and for this holy end I have employed the talisman which
                    alone sets fire to the sleeping passions..." and she craned her neck forward and
                    almost hissed the word in his ear—"Jealousy!"'
                El-Râmi smiled—a cold derisive smile, which implied the most utter contempt for
                    the whole of Zaroba's wild harangue. She, however, went on undismayed, and with
                    increasing excitement—
                "Jealousy!" she cried—"The little asp is in your soul already, proud El-Râmi
                    Zarânos, and why? Because another's eyes have looked on Lilith! This was my
                    work! It was I who led Féraz into her chamber,—it was I who bade him kneel
                    beside her as she slept,—it was I who let him touch her hand,  —and though I could not hear his voice I know he
                    called upon her to awaken. In vain!—he might as well have called the dead—I knew
                    she would not stir for him—her very breath belongs to you. But I—I let him gaze
                    upon her beauty and worship it,—all his young soul was in his eyes—he looked and
                    looked again and loved what he beheld! And mark me yet further,
                    El-Râmi,—I saw her smile when Féraz took her hand,—so, though she did not move,
                    she felt; she felt a touch that was not yours,—not yours,
                    El-Râmi!—as God liveth, she is not quite so much your own as once she was!"
                As she said this and laughed in that triumphant way, El-Râmi advanced one step
                    towards her with a fierce movement as though he would have thrust her from the
                    room,—checking himself, however, he seized the pencil again and wrote—
                "I have listened to you with more patience than you deserve. You are an ignorant
                    woman and foolish—your fancies have no foundation whatever in fact. Your
                    disobedience might have ruined my life's work,—as it is, I dare say some
                    mischief has been  done. Return to your
                    duties, and take heed how you trespass against my command in future. If you dare
                    to speak to me on this subject again I will have you shipped back to your own
                    land and left there, as friendless and as unprovided for as you were when I
                    saved you from death by famine. Go—and let me hear no more foolishness."
                Zaroba read, and her face darkened and grew weary—but the pride and obstinacy of
                    her own convictions remained written on every line of her features. She bowed
                    her head resignedly, however, and said in slow even tones—
                "El-Râmi Zarânos is wise,—El-Râmi Zarânos is master. But let him remember the
                    words of Zaroba. Zaroba is also skilled in the ways and the arts of the
                    East,—and the voice of Fate speaks sometimes to the lowest as well as to the
                    highest. There are the laws of Life and the laws of Death—but there are also the
                    laws of Love. Without the laws of Love, the Universe would cease to be,—it is
                    for El-Râmi Zarânos to prove himself stronger than the Universe,—if he can!"
                
                She made the usual obsequious "salaam" common to Eastern races, and then with a
                    swift, silent movement left the room, closing the door noiselessly behind her.
                    El-Râmi stood where she had left him, idly tearing up the scraps of paper on
                    which he had written his part of the conversation,—he was hardly conscious of
                    thought, so great were his emotions of surprise and self-contempt.
                "'O what a rogue and peasant-slave am I!"' he muttered, quoting his favourite
                    "Hamlet"—"Why did I not paralyze her tongue before she spoke? Where had fled my
                    force,—what became of my skill? Surely I could have struck her down before me
                    with the speed of a lightning-flash—only-she is a woman—and old. Strange how
                    these feminine animals always harp on the subject of love, as though it were the
                    Be-all and End-all of everything. The love of Lilith! Oh fool! The love of a
                    corpse kept breathing by artificial means! And what of the Soul of Lilith? Can
                    It love? Can It hate? Can It even feel? Surely not. It is an ethereal
                    transparency,—a delicate film which takes upon itself the reflex of all existing
                    things  without experiencing personal emotion.
                    Such is the Soul, as I believe in it—an immortal Essence, in itself formless,
                    yet capable of taking all forms,—ignorant of the joys or pains of feeling, yet
                    reflecting all shades of sensation as a crystal reflects all colours in the
                    prism. This, and no more."
                He paced up and down the room—and a deep involuntary sigh escaped him.
                "No—" he murmured, as though answering some inward query—"No, I will not go to
                    her now—not till the appointed time. I resolved on an absence of forty-eight
                    hours, and forty-eight hours it shall be. Then I will go,—and she will tell me
                    all—I shall know the full extent of the mischief done. And so Féraz "looked and
                    looked again, and loved what he beheld!" Love! The very word seems
                    like a desecrating blot on the virgin soul of Lilith!"
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVI.
                FéRAZ meanwhile was fast asleep in his own room. He
                    had sought to be alone for the purpose of thinking quietly and connectedly over
                    all he had heard,—but no sooner had he obtained the desired solitude than a
                    sudden and heavy drowsiness overcame him, such as he was unable to resist, and
                    throwing himself on his bed, he dropped into a profound slumber, which deepened
                    as the minutes crept on. The afternoon wore slowly away,—sunset came and
                    passed,—the coming shadows lengthened, and just as the first faint star peeped
                    out in the darkening skies he awoke, startled to find it so late. He sprang from
                    his couch, bewildered and vexed with himself,—it was time for supper, he
                    thought, and El-Râmi must be waiting. He hastened to  the study, and there he found his brother conversing
                    with a gentleman,—no other than Lord Melthorpe, who was talking in a loud
                    cheerful voice, which contrasted oddly with El-Râmi's slow musical accents, that
                    ever had a note of sadness in them. When Féraz made his hurried entrance, his
                    eyes humid with sleep, yet dewily brilliant,—his thick dark hair tangled in
                    rough curls above his brows, Lord Melthorpe stared at him in honestly
                    undisguised admiration, and then glanced at El-Râmi inquiringly.
                "My brother, Féraz Zarânos—" said El-Râmi, readily performing the ceremony of
                    introduction—"Féraz, this is Lord Melthorpe,—you have heard me speak of
                    him."
                Féraz bowed with his usual perfect grace, and Lord Melthorpe shook hands with
                    him.
                "Upon my word!", he said good-humouredly, "this young gentleman reminds one of
                    the "Arabian Nights," El-Râmi! He looks like one of those amazing fellows who
                    always had remarkable adventures; Prince Ahmed, or the son of a king, or
                    something—don't you know?"
                El-Râmi smiled gravely.
                
                "The Eastern dress is responsible for that idea in your mind, no doubt—" he
                    replied—"Féraz wears it in the house, because he moves more easily and is more
                    comfortable in it than in the regulation British attire, which really is the
                    most hideous mode of garb in the world. Englishmen are among the finest types of
                    the human race, but their dress does them scant justice."
                "You are right—we're all on the same tailor's pattern—and a frightful pattern it
                    is!" and his lordship put up his eyeglass to survey Féraz once more, the while
                    he thought—"Devilish handsome fellow!—would make quite a sensation in the
                    room—new sort of craze for my lady." Aloud he said—"Pray bring your brother with
                    you on Tuesday evening—my wife will be charmed."
                "Féraz never goes into society—" replied El-Râmi—"But of course, if you
                    insist—"
                "Oh, I never insist—" declared Lord Melthorpe, laughing—"You are the
                    man for insisting, not I. But I shall take it as a favour if he will accompany
                    you."
                "You hear, Féraz—" and El-Râmi looked at his brother inquiringly—"Lord Melthorpe
                         invites you to a great reception next
                    Tuesday evening. Would you like to go?"
                Féraz glanced from one to the other half smilingly, half doubtfully.
                "Yes, I should like it," he said at last.
                "Then we shall expect you,—" and Lord Melthorpe rose to take his leave,—"It's a
                    sort of diplomatic and official affair—fellows will look in either before or
                    after the Foreign Office crush, which is on the same evening, and orders and
                    decorations will be in full force, I believe. Oh, by the way, Lady Melthorpe
                    begged me to ask you most particularly to wear Oriental dress."
                "I shall obey her ladyship;"—and El-Râmi smiled a little satirically—the
                    character of the lady in question was one that always vaguely amused him.
                "And your brother will do the same, I hope?"
                "Assuredly!" and El-Râmi shook hands with his visitor, bidding Féraz escort him
                    to the door. When he had gone, Féraz sprang into the study again with all the
                    eager impetuosity of a boy.
                "What is it like—a reception in England?"  he
                    asked—"And why does Lord Melthorpe ask me?"
                "I cannot imagine!" returned his brother dryly—"Why do you want to go?"
                "I should like to see life;"—said Féraz.
                "See life!" echoed El-Râmi somewhat disdainfully—"What do you mean? Don't you
                    "see life" as it is?"
                "No!" answered Féraz quickly—"I see men and women—but I don't know how they live,
                    and I don't know what they do."
                "They live in a perpetual effort to outreach and injure one another"—said
                    El-Râmi, "and all their forces are concentrated on bringing themselves into
                    notice. That is how they live,—that is what they do. It is not a dignified or
                    noble way of living, but it is all they care about. You will see illustrations
                    of this at Lord Melthorpe's reception. You will find the woman with the most
                    diamonds giving herself peacock-like airs over the woman who has fewest,—you
                    will see the snob-millionaire treated with greater consideration by everyone
                    than the born gentleman who happens to have little of this world's wealth. You
                    will find that no one  thinks of putting
                    himself out to give personal pleasure to another,—you will hear the same
                    commonplace observations from every mouth,—you will discover a lack of wit, a
                    dearth of kindness, a scarcity of cheerfulness, and a most desperate want of
                    tact in every member of the whole fashionable assemblage. And so you shall "see
                    life"—if you think you can discern it there. Sufficient for the day is the evil
                    thereof!—meanwhile let us have supper,—time flies, and I have work to do
                    to-night that must be done."
                Féraz busied himself nimbly about his usual duties—the frugal meal was soon
                    prepared and soon dispensed with, and at its close, the brothers sat in silence,
                    El-Râmi watching Féraz with a curious intentness, because he felt for the first
                    time in his life that he was not quite master of the young man's thoughts. Did
                    he still remember the name of Lilith? El-Râmi had willed that every trace of it
                    should vanish from his memory during that long afternoon sleep in which the lad
                    had indulged himself unresistingly,—but the question was now—Had that force of
                    will gained the victory? He, El-Râmi,  could
                    not tell—not yet—but he turned the problem over and over in his mind with sombre
                    irritation and restlessness. Presently Féraz broke the silence. Drawing from his
                    vest-pocket a small manuscript book, and raising his eyes, he said—
                "Do you mind hearing something I wrote last night? I don't quite know how it came
                    to me—I think I must have been dreaming—"
                "Read on;"—said El-Râmi—"If it be poesy, then its origin cannot be explained.
                    Were you able to explain it, it would become prose."
                "I dare say the lines are not very good,"—went on Féraz diffidently—"yet they are
                    the true expression of a thought that is in me. And whether I owe it to you, or
                    to my own temperament, I have visions now and then—visions not only of love, but
                    of fame—strange glories that I almost realize, yet cannot grasp. And there is a
                    sadness and futility in it all that grieves me ... everything is so vague and
                    swift and fleeting. Yet if love, as you say, be a mere chimera,—surely there is
                    such a thing as Fame?"
                
                "There is—" and El-Râmi's eyes flashed, then darkened again—"There is the
                    applause of this world, which may mean the derision of the next. Read on!"
                Féraz obeyed. "I call it for the present "The Star of Destiny"'—he said; and then
                    his mellifluous voice, rich and well modulated, gave flowing musical enunciation
                    to the following lines: 
                        
                            The soft low plash of waves upon the shore,
                            Mariners' voices singing out at sea,
                            The sighing of the wind that evermore
                            Chants to my spirit mystic melody,—
                            These are the mingling sounds I vaguely hear
                            As o'er the darkening misty main I gaze,
                            Where one fair planet, warmly bright and clear
                            Pours from its heart a rain of silver rays.
                        
                        
                            O patient Star of Love! in yon pale sky
                            What absolute serenity is thine!
                            Beneath thy stedfast, half-reproachful eye
                            Large Ocean chafes,—and white with bitter brine,
                            Heaves restlessly, and ripples from the light
                            To darker shadows,—ev'n as noble thought
                            Recoils from human passion, to a night
                            Of splendid gloom by its own mystery wrought.
                        
                    
                "What made you think of the sea?" interrupted El-Râmi.
                Féraz looked up dreamily.
                
                "I don't know,"—he said.
                "Well!—go on!"
                Féraz continued,— 
                        
                            O searching Star, I bring my grief to thee,—
                            Regard it, Thou, as pitying angels may
                            Regard a tortured saint,—and, down to me
                            Send one bright glance, one heart-assuring ray
                            From that high throne where thou in sheeny state
                            Dost hang, thought-pensive, 'twixt the heaven and
                                earth;
                            Thou, sure, dost know the secret of my Fate,
                            For thou did'st shine upon my hour of birth.
                        
                        
                            O Star, from whom the clouds asunder roll,
                            Tell this poor spirit pent in dying flesh,
                            This fighting, working, praying, prisoned soul.
                            Why it is trapped and strangled in the mesh
                            Of foolish Life and Time? Its wild young voice
                            Calls for release, unanswered and unstilled,
                            It sought not out this world,—it had no choice
                            Of other worlds where glory is fulfilled.
                        
                        
                            How hard to live at all, if living be
                            The thing it seems to us!—the few brief years
                            Made up of toil and sorrow, where we see
                            No joy without companionship of tears,—
                            What is the artist's fame?—the golden chords
                            Of rapt musician? or the poet's themes?
                            All incomplete!—the nailed down coffin boards
                            Are mocking sequels to the grandest dreams.
                        
                    
                "That is not your creed,"—said El-Râmi with a searching look.
                Féraz sighed. "No—it is not my actual creed—but it is my frequent thought."
                
                "A thought unworthy of you,"—said his brother—"There is nothing left "incomplete"
                    in the whole Universe—and there is no sequel possible to Creation."
                "Perhaps not,—but again perhaps there may be a sequel beyond all imagination or
                    comprehension. And surely you must admit that some things are left distressingly
                    incomplete. Shelley's "Fragments" for instance, Keats's "Hyperion"—Schubert's
                    "Unfinished" Symphony—"
                "Incomplete here—yes—;" agreed El-Râmi—"But—finished elsewhere, as
                    surely as day is day, and night is night. There is nothing lost,—no, not so much
                    as the lightest flicker of a thought in a man's brain,—nothing wasted or
                    forgotten,—not even so much as an idle word. We forget—but the
                    forces of Nature are non-oblivious. All is chronicled and registered—all is
                    scientifically set down in plain figures that no mistake may be made in the
                    final reckoning."
                "You really think that?—you really believe that?" asked Féraz, his eyes dilating
                    eagerly.
                "I do, most positively;"—said El-Râmi—"It is a Fact which Nature most potently
                         sets forth, and insists upon. But is
                    there no more of your verse?"
                "Yes—" and Féraz read on— 
                        
                            O, we are sorrowful, my Soul and I:
                            We war together fondly—yet we pray
                            For separate roads,—the Body fain would die
                            And sleep i' the ground, low-hidden from the
                                day—
                            The Soul erect, its large wings cramped for room,
                            Doth pantingly and passionately rebel,
                            Against this strange, uncomprehended doom
                            Called Life, where nothing is, or shall be well.
                        
                    
                "Good!"—murmured El-Râmi softly—"Good—and true!"
                
                    
                        Hear me, my Star!—star of my natal hour,
                        Thou calm unmoved one amid all clouds!
                        Give me my birth-right,—the imperial sway
                        Of Thought supreme above the common crowds,—
                        O let me feel thy swift compelling beam
                        Drawing me upwards to a goal divine;
                        Fulfil thy promise, O thou glittering Dream,
                        And let one crown of victory be mine;
                    
                    
                        Let me behold this world recede and pass
                        Like shifting mist upon a stormy coast
                        Or vision in a necromancer's glass;—
                        For I, 'mid perishable earth can boast
                        Of proven Immortality,—can reach
                        Glories ungrasped by minds of lower tone;—
                        Thus, in a silence vaster than all speech,
                        I follow thee, my Star of Love, alone!
                    
                
                He ceased. El-Râmi, who had listened attentively, resting his head on one hand,
                         now lifted his eyes and looked at his
                    young brother with an expression of mingled curiosity and compassion.
                "The verses are good;"—he said at last—"good and perfectly rhythmical, but surely
                    they have a touch of arrogance?— 
                        "I 'mid perishable earth can boast
                        Of proven Immortality."
                     What do you mean by "proven" Immortality? Where are your proofs?"
                "I have them in my inner consciousness;" replied Féraz slowly—"But to put them
                    into the limited language spoken by mortals is impossible. There are existing
                    emotions—existing facts, which can never be rendered into common speech. God is
                    a Fact—but He cannot be explained or described."
                El-Râmi was silent,—a slight frown contracted his dark even brows.
                "You are beginning to think too much"—he observed, rising from his chair as he
                    spoke—"Do not analyse yourself, Féraz, ... self-analysis is the temper of the
                    age, but it engenders distrust and sorrow. Your poem is excellent, but it
                    breathes of sadness,—I prefer your "star" songs which are so  full of joy. To be wise is to be happy,—to be happy
                    is to be wise—"
                A loud rat-tat at the street-door interrupted him. Féraz sprang up to answer the
                    imperative summons, and returned with a telegram. El-Râmi opened and read it
                    with astonished eyes, his face growing suddenly pale.
                "He will be here to-morrow night!" he ejaculated in a whisper—"To-morrow night!
                    He, the saint—the king—here to-morrow night! Why should he come?—What would he
                    have with me?"
                His expression was one of dazed bewilderment, and Féraz looked at him
                    inquiringly.
                "Any bad news?" he asked—"Who is it that is coming?"
                El-Râmi recollected himself, and folding up the telegram, thrust it in his
                    breast-pocket.
                "A poor monk who is travelling hither on a secret mission solicits my hospitality
                    for the night"—he replied hurriedly—"That is all. He will be here
                    to-morrow."
                Féraz stood silent, an incredulous smile in his fine eyes.
                
                "Why should you stoop to deceive me, El-Râmi my brother?" he said gently at
                    last—"Surely it is not one of your ways to perfection? Why try to disguise the
                    truth from me?—I am not of a treacherous nature. If I guess rightly, this "poor
                    monk" is the Supreme Head of the Brethren of the Cross, from whose mystic band
                    you were dismissed for a breach of discipline. What harm is there in my knowing
                    of this?"
                El-Râmi's hand clenched, and his eyes had that dark and terrible look in them
                    that Féraz had learned to fear, but his voice was very calm.
                "Who told you?" he asked.
                "One of the monks at Cyprus long ago, when I went on your errand"—replied Féraz;
                    "He spoke of your wisdom, your power, your brilliant faculties, in genuine
                    regret that all for some slight matter in which you would not bend your pride,
                    you had lost touch with their various centres of action in all parts of the
                    globe. He said no more than this,—and no more than this I know."
                "You know quite enough,"—said El-Râmi quietly—"If I have lost touch
                    with their  modes of work, I have gained
                    insight beyond their reach. And,—I am sorry I did not at once say the truth to
                    you—it is their chief leader who comes here to-morrow. No
                    doubt,"—and he smiled with a sense of triumph—"no doubt he seeks for fresh
                    knowledge, such as I alone can give him."
                "I thought," said Féraz in a low half-awed tone—"that he was one of those who are
                    wise with the wisdom of the angels?"
                "If there are angels!" said El-Râmi with a touch of scorn—"He is
                    wise in faith alone—he believes and he imagines,—and there is no question as to
                    the strange power he has obtained through the simplest means,—but I—I have no
                    faith!—I seek to prove—I work to know,—and my power is
                    as great as his, though it is won in a different way."
                Féraz said nothing, but sat down to the piano, allowing his hands to wander over
                    the keys in a dreamy fashion that sounded like the far-off echo of a rippling
                    mountain stream. El-Râmi waited a moment, listening,—then glanced at his
                    watch—it was growing late.
                "Good-night, Féraz;"—he said in gentle 
                    accents—"I shall want nothing more this evening. I am going to my work."
                "Good-night,"—answered Féraz with equal gentleness, as he went on playing. His
                    brother opened and closed the door softly;—he was gone.
                As soon as he found himself alone, Féraz pressed the pedal of his instrument so
                    that the music pealed through the room in rich salvos of sound—chord after chord
                    rolled grandly forth, and sweet ringing notes came throbbing from under his
                    agile finger-tips, the while he said aloud, with a mingling of triumph and
                    tenderness—
                "Forget! I shall never forget! Does one forget the flowers, the birds, the
                    moonlight, the sound of a sweet song? Is the world so fair, that I should blot
                    from my mind the fairest thing in it? Not so! My memory may fail me in a
                    thousand things—but let me be tortured, harassed, perplexed with dreams,
                    persuaded by fantasies, I shall never forget the name of—"
                He stopped abruptly—a look of pain and terror and effort flashed into his
                    eyes,—his hands fell on the keys of the piano with a  discordant jangle,—he stared about him, wondering and
                    afraid.
                "The name—the name!" he muttered hoarsely—"A flower's name—an angel's name—the
                    sweetest name I ever heard! How is this?—Am I mad that my lips refuse to utter
                    it? The name—the name of ... My God! my God! I have forgotten
                    it!"
                And springing from his chair he stood for one instant in mute wrath, incredulity
                    and bewilderment,—then throwing himself down again, he buried his face in his
                    hands, his whole frame trembling with mingled terror and awe at the mystic power
                    of El-Râmi's indomitable Will, which had, he knew, forced him to forget what
                    most he desired to remember.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVII.
                WITHIN the chamber of Lilith all was very still.
                    Zaroba sat there, crouched down in what seemed to be her favourite and
                    accustomed corner, busy with the intricate threadwork which she wove with so
                    much celerity;—the lamp burned brightly,—there were odours of frankincense and
                    roses in the air,—and not so much as the sound of a suppressed sigh or soft
                    breath stirred the deep and almost sacred quiet of the room. The tranced Lilith
                    herself, pale but beautiful, lay calm and still as ever among the glistening
                    satin cushions of her costly couch, and just above her, the purple draperies
                    that covered the walls and ceiling were drawn aside to admit of the opening of a
                    previously-concealed window, through which one or two  stars could be seen dimly sparkling in the skies. A
                    white moth, attracted by the light, had flown in by way of this aperture, and
                    was now fluttering heedlessly and aimlessly round the lamp,—but by-and-bye it
                    took a lower and less hazardous course, and finally settled on a shining corner
                    of the cushion that supported Lilith's head. There the fragile insect
                    rested,—now expanding its velvety white wings, now folding them close and
                    extending its delicate feelers to touch and test the glittering fabric on which
                    it found itself at ease,—but never moving from the spot it had evidently chosen
                    for its night's repose. Suddenly, and without sound, El-Râmi entered. He
                    advanced close up to the couch, and looked upon the sleeping girl with an eager,
                    almost passionate intentness. His heart beat quickly;—a singular excitement
                    possessed him, and for once he was unable to analyze his own sensations. Closer
                    and closer he bent over Lilith's exquisite form,—doubtfully and with a certain
                    scorn of himself, he took up a shining tress of her glorious hair and looked at
                    it curiously as though it were something new, strange or  unnatural. The little moth, disturbed, flew off the
                    pillow and fluttered about his head in wild alarm, and El-Râmi watched its
                    reckless flight as it made off towards the fatally-attractive lamp again, with
                    meditative eyes, still mechanically stroking that soft lock of Lilith's hair
                    which he held between his fingers.
                "Into the light!" he murmured—"Into the very heart of the light!—into the very
                    core of the Fire! That is the end of all ambition—to take wings and plunge
                    so—into the glowing, burning molten Creative Centre—and die for our
                    foolhardiness? Is that all?—or is there more behind? It is a question,—who may
                    answer it?"
                He sighed heavily, and leaned more closely over the couch, till the soft scarcely
                    perceptible breath from Lilith's lips touched his cheek warmly like a caress.
                    Observantly, as one might study the parts of a bird or a flower, he noted those
                    lips, how delicately curved, how coral-red they were,—and what a soft rose-tint,
                    like the flush of a pink sunrise on white flowers, was the hue which spread
                    itself waveringly over her cheeks,—till there,—there where the long eyelashes
                    curled 
                        up-
                        upwards
                    
                     wards, there were fine shadows,—shadows which
                    suggested light,—such light as must be burning in those sweetly-closed eyes.
                    Then there was the pure, smooth brow, over which little vine-like tendrils of
                    hair caught and clung amorously,—and then—that wondrous wealth of the hair
                    itself which like twin showers of gold, shed light on either side. It was all
                    beautiful,—a wonderful gem of Nature's handiwork,—a masterpiece of form and
                    colour which, but for him, El-Râmi, would long ere this have mouldered away to
                    unsightly ash and bone, in a lonely grave dug hurriedly among the sands of the
                    Syrian desert. He was almost, if not quite, the author of that warm if unnatural
                    vitality that flowed through those azure veins and branching arteries,—he, like
                    the Christ of Galilee, had raised the dead to life,—aye, if he chose, he could
                    say as the Master said to the daughter of Jairus, "Maiden, arise!" and she would
                    obey him—would rise and walk, and smile and speak, and look upon the world,—if
                    he chose! The arrogance of Will burned in his brain;—the pride of power, the
                    majesty of conscious strength made his  pulses
                    beat high with triumph beyond that of any king or emperor,—and he gazed down
                    upon the tranced fair form, himself entranced, and all unconscious that Zaroba
                    had come out of her corner, and that she now stood beside him, watching his face
                    with passionate and inquisitive eagerness. Just as he reluctantly lifted himself
                    up from his leaning position he saw her staring at him, and a frown darkened his
                    brows. He made his usual imperative sign to her to leave the room,—a sign she
                    was accustomed to understand and to obey—but this time she remained motionless,
                    fixing her eyes steadily upon him.
                "The conqueror shall be conquered, El-Râmi Zarânos—" she said slowly, pointing to
                    the sleeping Lilith—"The victorious master over the forces unutterable, shall
                    yet be overthrown! The work has begun,—the small seed has been sown—the great
                    harvest shall be reaped. For in the history of Heaven itself, certain proud
                    angels rose up and fought for the possession of supreme majesty and power—and
                    they fell,—down-beaten to the darkness,—unforgiven; and  are they not in darkness still? Even so must the
                    haughty spirit fall that contends against God and the Universal Law."
                She spoke impressively, and with a certain dignity of manner that gave an added
                    force to her words,—but El-Râmi's impassive countenance showed no sign of having
                    either heard or understood her. He merely repeated his gesture of dismissal, and
                    this time Zaroba obeyed it. Wrapping her flowing robe closely about her, she
                    withdrew, but with evident reluctance, letting the velvet portière fall only by
                    slow degrees behind her, and to the last keeping her dark deep-set eyes fixed on
                    El-Râmi's face. As soon as she had disappeared, he sprang to where the
                    dividing-curtain hid a massive door between the one room and the
                    antechamber,—this door he shut and locked,—then he returned to the couch, and
                    proceeded according to his usual method, to will the wandering spirit of his
                    "subject" into speech.
                "Lilith! Lilith!"
                As before, he had to wait ere any reply was vouchsafed to him. Impatiently he
                    glanced at the clock, and counted slowly a hundred beats.
                
                "Lilith!"
                She turned round towards him, smiled, and murmured something—her lips moved, but
                    whatever they uttered did not reach his ear.
                "Lilith! Where are you?"
                This time, her voice, though soft, was perfectly distinct.
                "Here. Close to you, with your hand on mine."
                El-Râmi was puzzled. True, he held her left hand in his own, but she had never
                    described any actual sensation of human touch before.
                "Then,—can you see me?" he asked somewhat anxiously.
                The answer came sadly.
                "No. Bright air surrounds me, and the colours of the air—nothing more."
                "You are alone, Lilith?"
                Oh, what a sigh came heaving from her breast!
                "I am always alone!"
                Half remorseful, he heard her. She had complained of solitude before,—and it was
                    a thought he did not wish her to dwell upon. He made haste to speak again.
                
                "Tell me,"—he said—"Where have you been Lilith, and what have you seen?"
                There was silence for a minute or two, and she moved restlessly.
                "You bade me seek out Hell for you"—she murmured at last—"I have searched but I
                    cannot find it."
                Another pause, and she went on.
                "You spoke of a strange thing," she said—"A place of punishment, of torture, of
                    darkness, of horror and despair,—there is no such dreary blot on all God's fair
                    Creation. In all the golden spaces of the furthest stars I find no punishment,
                    no pain, no darkness. I can discover nothing save beauty, light, and—Love!"
                The last word was uttered softly, and sounded like a note of music, sweet but
                    distant.
                El-Râmi listened, bewildered, and in a manner disappointed.
                "O Lilith, take heed what you say!" he exclaimed with some passion—"No pain?—no
                    punishment? no darkness? Then this world is Hell and you know naught of it!"
                As he said this, she moved uneasily  among her
                    pillows,—then, to his amazement, she suddenly sat up of her own accord, and went
                    on speaking, enunciating her words with singular clearness and emphasis, always
                    keeping her eyes closed and allowing her left hand to remain in his.
                "I am bound to tell you what I know;"—she said—"But I am unable to tell you what
                    is not true. In God's design I find no evil—no punishment, no death. If there
                    are such things, they must be in your world alone,—they must be Man's work and
                    Man's imaginng."
                "Man's work—Man's imagining?" repeated El-Râmi—"And what is Man?"
                "God's angel," replied Lilith quickly—"With God's own attribute of Free-Will. He,
                    like his Maker, doth create,—he also doth destroy,—what he elects to do, God
                    will not prevent. Therefore if Man makes Evil, Evil must exist till Man himself
                    destroys it."
                This was a deep and strange saying, and El-Râmi pondered over it without
                    speaking.
                "In the spaces where I roam," went on  Lilith
                    softly—"there is no evil. Those who are the Makers of Life in yonder fair
                    regions, seek only what is pure. Why should pain exist, or sin be known? I do
                    not understand."
                "No"—said El-Râmi bitterly—"You do not understand, because you are yourself too
                    happy,—happiness sees no fault in anything. Oh, you have wandered too far from
                    earth and you forget! The tie that binds you to this planet is over-fragile,—you
                    have lost touch with pain. I would that I could make you feel my thoughts!—for,
                    Lilith, God is cruel, not kind, ... upon God, and God alone, rests the weight of
                    woe that burdens the universe, and for the eternal sorrow of things there is
                    neither reason nor remedy."
                Lilith sank back again in a recumbent posture, a smile upon her lips.
                "O poor blind eyes!" she murmured—"Sad eyes that are so tired—too tired to bear
                    the light!"
                Her voice was so exquisitely pathetic that he was startled by its very
                    gentleness,—his heart gave one fierce bound against his side, and then seemed
                    almost to stand still.
                
                "You pity me?" he asked tremulously.
                She sighed. "I pity you"—she answered—"I pity myself."
                Almost breathlessly he asked "Why?"
                "Because I cannot see you—because you cannot see me. If I could see you—if you
                    could see me as I am, you would know all—you would understand all."
                "I do see you, Lilith" he said—"I hold your hand."
                "No—not my real hand"—she said—"Only its shadow."
                Instinctively he looked at the delicate fingers that lay in his palm—so
                    rosy-tipped and warm. Only the "shadow" of a hand! Then where was its
                    substance?
                "It will pass away"—went on Lilith-"like all shadows—but I shall
                    remain—not here, not here,—but elsewhere. When will you let me go?"
                "Where do you wish to go?" he asked.
                "To my friends," she answered swiftly and with eagerness—"They call me often—I
                    hear their voices singing "Lilith! Lilith!" and sometimes I see them beckoning
                    me—but I cannot reach them. It is cruel, for 
                    they love me and you do not,—why will you keep me here unloved so long?"
                He trembled and hesitated, fixing his dark eyes on the fair face, which, in spite
                    of its beauty, was to him but as the image of a Sphinx that forever refused to
                    give up its riddle.
                "Is love your craving, Lilith?" he asked slowly—"And what is your thought—or
                    dream—of love?"
                "Love is no dream;"—she responded—"Love is reality—Love is Life. I am not fully
                    living yet—I hover in the Realms Between, where spirits wait in silence and
                    alone."
                He sighed. "Then you are sad, Lilith?"
                "No. I am never sad. There is light within my solitude, and the glory of God's
                    beauty everywhere."
                El-Râmi gazed down upon her, an expression very like despair shadowing his own
                    features.
                "Too far, too far she wends her flight;"—he muttered to himself wearily. "How can
                    I argue on these vague and sublimated utterances! I cannot understand her
                    joy—she  cannot understand my pain. Evidently
                    Heaven's language is incomprehensible to mortal ears. And yet;—Lilith!" he
                    called again almost imperiously. "You talk of God as if you knew Him. But I—I
                    know Him not—I have not proved Him,—tell me of His Shape, His Seeming,—if indeed
                    you have the power."
                She was silent. He studied her tranquil face intently,—the smile upon it was in
                    very truth divine.
                "No answer!" he said with some derision. "Of course,—what answer should there be!
                    What Shape or Seeming should there be to a mere huge blind Force that creates
                    without reason, and destroys without necessity!"
                As he thus soliloquized, Lilith stirred, and flung her white arms upward as
                    though in ecstasy, letting them fall slowly afterwards in a folded position
                    behind her head.
                "To the Seven declared tones of Music, add seventy million more,"—she said—"and
                    let them ring their sweetest cadence, they shall make but a feeble echo of the
                    music of God's voice. To all the shades of radiant  colour, to all the lines of noblest form, add the
                    splendour of eternal youth, eternal goodness, eternal joy, eternal power, and
                    yet we shall not render into speech or song the beauty of our God! From His
                    glance flows Light—from His presence rushes Harmony,—as He moves through Space
                    great worlds are born; and at His bidding planets grow within the air like
                    flowers. Oh to see Him passing 'mid the stars!—"
                She broke off suddenly and drew a long deep breath, as of sheer delight,—but the
                    shadow on El-Râmi's features darkened wearily.
                "You teach me nothing, Lilith"—he said sadly and somewhat sternly—"You speak of
                    what you see—or what you think you see—but you cannot convince me of its
                    truth."
                Her face grew paler,—the smile vanished from her lips, and all her delicate
                    beauty seemed to freeze into a cold and grave rigidity.
                "Love begets faith;"—she said—"Where we do not love, we doubt. Doubt breeds Evil,
                    and Evil knows not God."
                "Platitudes, upon my life!—mere 
                        plati-
                        platitudes
                    
                     tudes!" exclaimed El-Râmi bitterly—"If this
                    half-released spirit can do no more than prate of the same old laws and duties
                    our preachers teach us, then indeed my service is vain. But she shall not baffle
                    me thus;"—and bending over Lilith's figure, he unwound her arms from the
                    indolent position in which they were folded, took her hands roughly in his own,
                    and sitting on the edge of her couch, fixed his burning eyes upon her as though
                    he sought to pierce her to the heart's core with their ardent, almost cruel
                    lustre.
                "Lilith!" he commanded—"Speak plainly, that I may fully understand your words.
                    You say there is no hell?"
                The answer came steadily.
                "None."
                "Then must evil go unpunished?"
                "Evil wreaks punishment upon itself. Evil destroys itself. That is the Law."
                "And the Prophets!" muttered El-Râmi scornfully—"Well! Go on, strange sprite!
                    Why—for such things are known—why does goodness suffer for being good?"
                "That never is. That is impossible."
                
                "Impossible?" queried El-Râmi incredulously.
                "Impossible,"—repeated the soft voice firmly. "Goodness seems to
                    suffer, but it does not. Evil seems to prosper, but it does
                    not."
                "And God exists?"
                "God exists."
                "And what of Heaven?"
                "Which heaven?" asked Lilith—"There are a million million heavens."
                El-Râmi stopped—thinking,—then finally said—
                "God's Heaven."
                "You would say God's World;"—returned Lilith tranquilly—"Nay, you will not let me
                    reach that centre. I see it; I feel it afar off—but your will binds me—you will
                    not let me go."
                "If I were to let you go what would you do?" asked El-Râmi—"Would you return to
                    me?"
                "Never! Those who enter the Perfect Glory, return no more to an imperfect
                    light."
                El-Râmi paused—he was arranging other 
                    questions to ask, when her next words startled him—
                "Someone called me by my name,"—she said—"Tenderly and softly, as though it were
                    a name beloved. I heard the voice—I could not answer—but I heard it—and I know
                    that someone loves me. The sense of love is sweet, and makes your dreary world
                    seem fair!"
                El-Râmi's heart began to beat violently—the voice of Féraz had reached her in her
                    trance then after all! And she remembered it!—more than this—it had carried a
                    vague emotion of love to that vagrant and ethereal essence which he called her
                    "soul" but which he had his doubts of all the while. For he was unable to
                    convince himself positively of any such thing as "Soul;"—all emotions, even of
                    the most divinely transcendent nature, he was disposed to set down to the action
                    of brain merely. But he was scientist enough to know that the brain must gather
                    its ideas from something,—something either external or
                    internal,—even such a vague thing as an Idea cannot spring out of blank Chaos.
                    And this was what especially puzzled him in his  experiment with the girl Lilith—for, ever since he had placed her in the
                    "life-in-death" condition she was, he had been careful to avoid impressing any
                    of his own thoughts or ideas upon her. And, as a matter of fact, all she said
                    about God, or about a present or a future state, was precisely the reverse of
                    what he himself argued;—the question therefore remained—From Where and How did
                    she get her knowledge? She had been a mere pretty, ignorant, half-barbaric Arab
                    child, when she died (according to natural law), and, during the
                    six years she had lived (by scientific law) in her strange trance,
                    her brain had been absolutely unconscious of all external impressions, while of
                    internal she could have none, beyond the memories of her childhood. Yet,—she had
                    grown beautiful beyond the beauty of mortals, and she spoke of things beyond all
                    mortal comprehension. The riddle of her physical and mental development seemed
                    unanswerable,—it was the wonder, the puzzle, the difficulty, the delight of all
                    El-Râmi's hours. But now there was mischief done. She spoke of love,—not divine
                    impersonal love, as was her  wont,—but love
                    that touched her own existence with a vaguely pleasing emotion. A voice had
                    reached her that never should have been allowed to penetrate her spiritual
                    solitude, and realizing this, a sullen anger smouldered in El-Râmi's mind. He
                    strove to consider Zaroba's fault and Féraz's folly with all the leniency,
                    forbearance and forgiveness possible, and yet the strange restlessness within
                    him gave him no peace. What should be done? What could be answered to those
                    wistful words—"The sense of love is sweet, and makes your dreary world seem
                    fair"?
                He pondered on the matter, vaguely uneasy and dissatisfied. He, and he alone, was
                    the master of Lilith,—he commanded and she obeyed,—but would it be always thus?
                    The doubt turned his blood cold,—suppose she escaped him now, after all his
                    studies and calculations! He resolved he would ask her no more questions that
                    night, and very gently he released the little slender hands he held.
                "Go, Lilith!" he said softly—"This world, as you say, is dreary—I will not keep
                    you longer in its gloom—go hence and rest."
                
                "Rest?" sighed Lilith inquiringly—"Where?"
                He bent above her, and touched her loose gold locks almost caressingly.
                "Where you choose!"
                "Nay, that I may not!" murmured Lilith sadly. "I have no choice—I must obey the
                    Master's will."
                El-Râmi's heart beat high with triumph at these words.
                "My will!" he said, more to himself than to her—"The force of
                    it!—the marvel of it!-my will!"
                Lilith heard,—a strange glory seemed to shine round her, like a halo round a
                    pictured saint, and the voice that came from her lips rang out with singularly
                    sweet clearness.
                "Your will!" she echoed—"Your will—and also—God's will!"
                He started, amazed and irresolute. The words were not what he expected, and he
                    would have questioned their meaning, but that he saw on the girl's lovely
                    features a certain pale composed look which he recognised as the look that meant
                    silence.
                "Lilith!" he whispered.
                
                No answer. He stood looking down upon her, his face seeming sterner and darker
                    than usual by reason of the intense, passionate anxiety in his burning eyes.
                "God's will!" he echoed with some disdain—"God's will would have annihilated her
                    very existence long ago out in the desert;—what should God do with her now that
                    I have not done?"
                His arrogance seemed to him perfectly justifiable; and yet he very well knew
                    that, strictly speaking, there was no such thing as "annihilation" possible to
                    any atom in the universe. Moreover, he did not choose to analyze the mystical
                    reasons as to why he had been permitted by Fate or Chance to obtain
                    such mastery over one human soul,—he preferred to attribute it all to his own
                    discoveries in science,—his own patient and untiring skill,—his own studious
                    comprehension of the forces of Nature,—and he was nearly, if not quite oblivious
                    of the fact, that there is a Something behind natural forces, which
                    knows and sees, controls and commands, and against which, if he places himself
                    in opposition, Man is but the puniest, most wretched  straw that was ever tossed or split by a whirlwind.
                    As a rule, men of science work not for God so much as against Him, wherefore
                    their most brilliant researches stop short of the goal. Great intellects are
                    seldom devout,—for brilliant culture begets pride—and pride is incompatible with
                    faith or worship. Perfect science, combined with perfect selflessness, would
                    give us what we need,—a purified and reasoning Religion. But El-Râmi's chief
                    characteristic was pride,—and he saw no mischief in it. Strong in his
                    knowledge,—defiant of evil in the consciousness he possessed of his own
                    extraordinary physical and mental endowments, he saw no reason why he should bow
                    down in humiliated abasement before forces, either natural or spiritual, which
                    he deemed himself able to control. And his brow cleared, as he once more bent
                    over his tranced "subject" and with all the methodical precaution of a
                    physician, felt her pulse, took note of her temperature and judged that for the
                    present she needed no more of that strange Elixir which kept her veins aglow
                    with such inexplicably beauteous vitality. Then—his 
                        ex-
                        examination
                    
                     amination done—he left the room; and as he
                    drew the velvet portière behind him, the little white moth that had flown in for
                    a night's shelter, fluttered down from the golden lamp like a falling leaf, and
                    dropped on the couch of Lilith, shrivelled and dead.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XVIII.
                THE next day was very wet and stormy. From morning to night the rain
                    fell in torrents, and a cold wind blew. El-Râmi stayed indoors, reading,
                    writing, and answering a few of his more urgent correspondents, a great number
                    of whom were total strangers to him, and who nevertheless wrote to him out of
                    the sheer curiosity excited in them by the perusal of a certain book to which
                    his name was appended as author. This book was a very original literary
                    production,—the critics were angry with it, because it was so unlike anything
                    else that ever was written. According to the theories set forth in its pages,
                    Man the poor and finite, was proved to be a creature of superhuman and almost
                    god-like attributes,—a "flattering unction" 
                    indeed, which when laid to the souls of commonplace egoists, had the effect of
                    making them consider El-Râmi Zarânos a very wonderful person, and themselves
                    more wonderful still. Only the truly great mind is humble enough to appreciate
                    greatness, and of great minds there is a great scarcity. Most of El-Râmi's
                    correspondents were of that lower order of intelligence which blandly accepts
                    every fresh truth discovered as specially intended for themselves, and not at
                    all for the world, as though indeed they were some particular and removed class
                    of superior beings who alone were capable of understanding true wisdom. "Your
                    work has appealed to me"—wrote one, "as it will not appeal to all,
                    because I am able to enter into the divine spirit of things as the vulgar
                        herd cannot do!" This, as if the "vulgar herd" were not also part of
                    the "divine spirit of things"!
                "I have delighted in your book"—wrote another, "because I am a poet, and the
                    world, with its low aims and lower desires I abhor and despise!"
                The absurdity of a man presuming to call 
                    himself a poet, and in the same breath declaring he "despises" the world,—the
                    world which supports his life and provides him with all his needs,—never seems
                    to occur to the minds of these poor boasters of a petty vanity. El-Râmi looked
                    weary enough as he glanced quickly through a heap of such ill-judged and
                    egotistical epistles, and threw them aside to be forever left unanswered. To him
                    there was something truly horrible and discouraging in the contemplation of the
                    hopeless, helpless, absolute stupidity of the majority of mankind. The teachings
                    of Mother Nature being always straight and plain, it is remarkable what devious
                    turnings and dark winding ways we prefer to stumble into rather than take the
                    fair and open course. For example Nature says to us—"My children, Truth is
                    simple,—and I am bound by all my forces to assist its manifestation. A Lie is
                    difficult—I can have none of it—it needs other lies to keep it going,—its ways
                    are full of complexity and puzzle,—why then, O foolish ones, will you choose the
                    Lie and avoid the Truth? For, work as you may, the Truth must out, and  not all the uproar of opposing multitudes can
                    still its thunderous tongue." Thus Nature;—but we heed her not,—we go on lying
                    stedfastly, in a strange delusion that thereby may deceive Eternal Justice. But
                    Eternal Justice never is deceived,—never is obscured even, save for a moment, as
                    a passing cloud obscures the sun.
                        
                        '
                    
                "How easy after all to avoid mischief of any kind," mused El-Râmi now, as he put
                    by his papers and drew two or three old reference volumes towards him—"How easy
                    to live happily, free from care, free from sickness, free from every external or
                    internal wretchedness, if we could but practise the one rule—Self-abnegation. It
                    is all there,—and the ethereal Lilith may be right in her assurance as to the
                    non-existence of Evil unless we ourselves create it. At least one half the
                    trouble in the world might be avoided if we chose. Debt, for example,—that
                    carking trouble always arises from living beyond one's means,—therefore
                        why live beyond one's means? What for? Show? Vulgar
                    ostentation? Luxury? Idleness? All these are things against which Heaven  raises its eternal ban. Then take physical
                    pain and sickness,—here Self is to blame again,—self-indulgence in the pleasures
                    of the table,—sensual craving,—the marriage of weakly or ill-conditioned
                    persons,—all simple causes from which spring incalculable evils. Avoid the
                    causes and we escape the evils. The arrangements of Nature are all so clear and
                    explicit, and yet we are forever going out of our way to find or invent
                    difficulties. The farmer grumbles and writes letters to the newspapers if his
                    turnip-fields are invaded by what he deems a "destructive pest" in the way of
                    moth or caterpillar, and utterly ignores the fact that these insects always
                    appear for some wise reason or other, which he, absorbed in his own immediate
                    petty interests, fails to appreciate. His turnips are eaten,—that is all he
                    thinks or cares about,—but if he knew that those same turnips contain a
                    particular microbe poisonous to human life, a germ of typhoid, cholera or the
                    like, drawn up from the soil and ready to fructify in the blood of cattle or of
                    men, and that these insects of which he complains are the scavengers sent by  Nature to utterly destroy the Plague in
                    embryo, he might pause in his grumbling to wonder at so much precaution taken by
                    the elements for the preservation of his unworthy and ignorant being. Perplexing
                    and at times maddening is this our curse of Ignorance,—but that the "sins of the
                    fathers are visited on the children" is a true saying is evident—for the faults
                    of generations are still bred in our blood and bone."
                He turned over the first volume before him listlessly,—his mind was not set upon
                    study, and his attention wandered. He was thinking of Féraz, with whom he had
                    scarcely exchanged a word all day. He had lacked nothing in the way of service,
                    for swift and courteous obedience to his brother's wishes had characterized
                    Féraz in every simple action, but there was a constraint between the two that
                    had not previously existed. Féraz bore himself with a stately yet sad
                    hauteur,—he had the air of a proud prince in chains who, being captive,
                    performed his prison-work with exactitude and resignation as a matter of
                    discipline and duty. It was curious that El-Râmi, who had steeled 
                        him-
                        himself
                    
                     self as he imagined against every tender
                    sentiment, should now feel the want of the impetuous confidence and grace of
                    manner with which his young brother had formerly treated him.
                "Everything changes—" he mused gloomily, "Everything must change, of
                    course; and nothing is so fluctuating as the humour of a boy who is not yet a
                    man, but is on the verge of manhood. And with Féraz my power has reached its
                    limit,—I know exactly what I can do, and what I can not do with
                    him,—it is a case of "Thus far and no further." Well,—he must choose his own way
                    of life,—only let him not presume to set himself in my way, or
                    interfere in my work! Ye gods!—there is nothing I would not
                    do—"
                He paused, ashamed; the blood flushed his face darkly and his hand clenched
                    itself involuntarily. Conscious of the thought that had arisen within him, he
                    felt a moment's shuddering horror of himself. He knew that in the very depths of
                    his nature there was enough untamed savagery to make him capable of crushing his
                    young brother's life  out of him, should he
                    dare to obstruct his path or oppose him in his labours. Realizing this, a cold
                    dew broke out on his forehead and he trembled.
                "O Soul of Lilith that cannot understand Evil!" he exclaimed—"Whence came this
                    evil thought in me? Does the evil in myself engender it?—and does the same
                    bitter gall that stirred the blood of Cain lurk in the depths of my being, till
                    Opportunity strikes the wicked hour? Retro me,
                        Sathanas! After all, there was something in the old beliefs—the
                    pious horror of a devil,—for a devil there is that walks the world, and his name
                    is Man!"
                He rose and paced the room impatiently,—what a long day it seemed, and with what
                    dreary persistence the rain washed against the windows! He looked out into the
                    street,—there was not a passenger to be seen,—a wet dingy grayness pervaded the
                    atmosphere and made everything ugly and cheerless. He went back to his books,
                    and presently began to turn over the pages of the quaint Arabic volume into
                    which Féraz had unwisely dipped, gathering therefrom a crumb  of knowledge, which, like all scrappy information,
                    had only led him to discontent.
                "All these old experiments of the Egyptian priests were simple enough—" he
                    murmured as he read,—"They had one substratum of science,—the art of bringing
                    the countless atoms that fill the air into temporary shape. The trick is so easy
                    and natural, that I fancy there must have been a certain condition of the
                    atmosphere in earlier ages which of itself shaped the atoms,—hence
                    the ideas of nymphs, dryads, fauns and watersprites; these temporary shapes
                    which dazzled for some fleeting moments the astonished human eye and so gave
                    rise to all the legends. To shape the atoms as a sculptor shapes clay, is but a
                    phase of chemistry,—a pretty experiment—yet what a miracle it would always seem
                    to the uninstructed multitude!"
                He unlocked a drawer in his desk, and took from it a box full of red powder, and
                    two small flasks, one containing minute globules of a glittering green colour
                    like tiny emeralds,—the other full of a pale amber liquid. He smiled as he
                    looked at these ingredients,—and then he gave a glance out  through the window at the dark and rainy
                    afternoon.
                "To pass the time, why not?" he queried half aloud. "One needs a little diversion
                    sometimes even in science."
                Whereupon he placed some of the red powder in a small bronze vessel and set fire
                    to it. A thick smoke arose at once and filled the room with cloud that emitted a
                    pungent perfume, and in which his own figure was scarcely discernible. He cast
                    five or six of the little green globules into this smoke; they dissolved in
                    their course and melted within it,—and finally he threw aloft a few drops of the
                    amber liquid. The effect was extraordinary, and would have seemed incredible to
                    any onlooker, for through the cloud a roseate Shape made itself slowly
                    visible,—a Shape that was surrounded with streaks of light and rainbow flame as
                    with a garland. Vague at first, but soon growing more distinct, it gathered
                    itself into seeming substance, and floated nearly to the ground,—then rising
                    again, balanced itself lightly like a blown feather sideways upon the dense mist
                    that filled the air. In form this "
                        cor-
                        corruscation
                    
                     ruscation of atoms" as El-Râmi called it,
                    resembled a maiden in the bloom of youth,—her flowing hair, her sparkling eyes,
                    her smiling lips, were all plainly discernible;—but, that she was a mere
                    phantasm and creature of the cloud was soon made plain, for scarcely had she
                    declared herself in all her rounded laughing loveliness, than she melted away
                    and passed into nothingness like a dream. The cloud of smoke grew thinner and
                    thinner, till it vanished also so completely that there was no more left of it
                    than a pale blue ring such as might have been puffed from a stray cigar.
                    El-Râmi, leaning lazily back in his chair, had watched the whole development and
                    finish of his "experiment" with indolent interest and amusement.
                "How admirably the lines of beauty are always kept in these effects,"—he said to
                    himself when it was over,—"and what a fortune I could make with that one example
                    of the concentration of atoms if I chose to pass as a Miracle-maker. Moses was
                    an adept at this kind of thing; so also was a certain Egyptian priest named
                    Borsa of  Memphis, who just for that same
                    graceful piece of chemistry was judged by the people as divine,—made king,—and
                    loaded with wealth and honour;—excellent and most cunning Borsa! But we—we do
                    not judge anyone "divine" in these days of ours, not even God,—for He is
                    supposed to be simply the lump of leaven working through the loaf of
                    matter,—though it will always remain a question as to why there is any leaven or
                    any loaf at all existing."
                He fell into a train of meditation, which caused him presently to take up his pen
                    and write busily many pages of close manuscript. Féraz came in at the usual hour
                    with supper,—and then only he ceased working, and shared the meal with his young
                    brother, talking cheerfully, though saying little but commonplaces, and
                    skilfully steering off any allusion to subjects which might tend to increase
                    Féraz's evident melancholy. Once he asked him rather abruptly why he had not
                    played any music that day.
                "I do not know"—answered the young man coldly—"I seem to have forgotten
                    music—with other things."
                
                He spoke meaningly;—El-Râmi laughed; relieved and light at heart. Those "other
                    things" meant the name of Lilith, which his will had succeeded in erasing from
                    his brother's memory. His eyes sparkled, and his voice gathered new richness and
                    warmth of feeling as he said kindly—
                "I think not, Féraz,—I think you cannot have forgotten music. Surely it is no
                    extraneous thing, but part of you,—a lovely portion of your life which you would
                    be loth to miss. Here is your little neglected friend,"—and, rising, he took out
                    of its case an exquisitely shaped mandolin inlaid with pearl—"The dear old
                    lute,—for lute it is, though modernized,—the same shaped instrument on which the
                    rose and fuchsia-crowned youths of old Pompeii played the accompaniment to their
                    love-songs; the same, the very same on which the long-haired, dusky-skinned
                    maids of Thebes and Memphis thrummed their strange uncouth ditties to their
                    black-browed warrior kings. I like it better than the violin—its form is far
                    more pleasing—we can see Apollo with a lute, but it is difficult to fancy the
                    Sun-god fitting his graceful arm to the 
                    contorted positions of a fiddle. Play something, Féraz"—and he smiled winningly
                    as he gave the mandolin into his brother's hands—"Here,"—and he detached the
                        plectrum from its place under the
                    strings—"With this little piece of oval tortoiseshell, you can set the nerves of
                    music quivering,—those silver wires will answer to your touch like the fibres of
                    the human heart struck by the tremolo of
                    passion."
                He paused,—his eyes were full of an ardent light, and Féraz looked at him
                    wonderingly. What a voice he had!—how eloquently he spoke!—how noble and
                    thoughtful were his features!—and what an air of almost pathetic dignity was
                    given to his face by that curiously snow-white hair of his, which so
                    incongruously suggested age in youth! Poor Féraz!—his heart swelled within him;
                    love and secret admiration for his brother contended with a sense of outraged
                    pride in himself,—and yet—he felt his sullen amour-propre, his instinct of rebellion, and his distrustful
                    reserve all oozing away under the spell of El-Râmi's persuasive tongue and
                    fascinating manner,—and to  escape from his
                    own feelings, he bent over the mandolin and tried its chords with a trembling
                    hand and downcast eyes.
                "You speak of passion," he said in a low voice—"but you have never known it."
                "Oh, have I not!" and El-Râmi laughed lightly as he resumed his seat—"Nay, if I
                    had not I should be more than man. The lightning has flashed across my path,
                    Féraz, I assure you, only it has not killed me; and I have been ready to shed my
                    blood drop by drop, for so slight and imperfect a production of Nature as—a
                    woman! A thing of white flesh and soft curves, and long hair and large eyes, and
                    a laugh like the tinkle of a fountain in our Eastern courts,—a thing with less
                    mind than a kitten, and less fidelity than a hound. Of course there are clever
                    women and faithful women,—but then we men seldom choose these; we are fools, and
                    we pay for our folly. And I also have been a fool in my time,—why should you
                    imagine I have not? It is flattering to me, but why?"
                Féraz looked at him again, and in spite of himself smiled, though
                    reluctantly.
                
                "You always seem to treat all earthly emotions with scorn—" he replied evasively,
                    "And once you told me there was no such thing in the world as love."
                "Nor is there—" said El-Râmi quickly—"Not ideal love—not everlasting love. Love
                    in its highest, purest sense, belongs to other planets—in this its golden wings
                    are clipped, and it becomes nothing more than a common and vulgar physical
                    attraction."
                Féraz thrummed his mandolin softly.
                "I saw two lovers the other day—" he said—"They seemed divinely happy."
                "Where did you see them?"
                "Not here. In the land I know best—my Star."
                El-Râmi looked at him curiously, but forbore to speak.
                "They were beautiful—" went on Féraz. "They were resting together on a bank of
                    flowers, in a little nook of that lovely forest where there are thousands of
                    song-birds sweeter than nightingales. Music filled the air,—a rosy glory filled
                    the sky,—their arms were twined around each other,—their lips met, and then—oh,
                    then their joy smote me  with fear,
                    because,—because I was alone—and they were—together!"
                His voice trembled. El-Râmi's smile had in it something of compassion.
                "Love in your Star is a dream, Féraz—" he said gently—"But love here—here in this
                    phase of things we call Reality,—means,—do you know what it means?"
                Féraz shook his head,
                "It means Money. It means lands, and houses and a big balance at the bank. Lovers
                    do not subsist here on flowers and music,—they have rather more vulgar and
                    substantial appetites. Love here is the disillusion of Love—there, in the region
                    you speak of, it may perchance be perfect—"
                A sudden rush of rain battering at the windows, accompanied by a gust of wind,
                    interrupted him.
                "What a storm!" exclaimed Féraz, looking up—"And you are expecting—"
                A measured rat-tat-tat at the door came at that moment, and El-Râmi sprang to his
                    feet. Féraz rose also, and set aside his mandolin. Another gust of wind whistled
                    by, bringing with it a sweeping torrent of hail.
                
                "Quick!" said El-Râmi, in a somewhat agitated voice—"It is—you know who it is.
                    Give him reverent greeting, Féraz—and show him at once in here."
                Féraz withdrew,—and when he had disappeared, El-Râmi looked about him vaguely
                    with the bewildered air of a man who would fain escape from some difficult
                    position, could he but discover an egress,—a slight shudder ran through his
                    frame, and he heaved a deep sigh.
                "Why has he come to me!" he muttered, "Why—after all these years of absolute
                    silence and indifference to my work, does he seek me now?"
            
            
                
                CHAPTER XIX.
                STANDING in an attitude more of resignation than expectancy, he waited,
                    listening. He heard the street-door open and shut again,—then came a brief
                    pause, followed by the sound of a firm step in the outer hall,—and Féraz
                    reappeared, ushering in with grave respect a man of stately height and majestic
                    demeanour, cloaked in a heavy travelling ulster, the hood of which was pulled
                    cowl-like over his head and almost concealed his features.
                "Greeting to El-Râmi Zarânos—" said a rich mellow voice—"And so this is the
                    weather provided by an English month of May! Well, it might be worse,—certes,
                    also, it might be better. I should have disburdened myself of these "lendings"
                    in the  hall, but that I knew not whether you
                    were quite alone—" and, as he spoke, he threw off his cloak, which dripped with
                    rain, and handed it to Féraz, disclosing himself in the dress of a Carthusian
                    monk, all save the disfiguring tonsure. "I was not certain," he continued
                    cheerfully—"whether you might be ready or willing to receive me."
                "I am always ready for such a visitor—" said El-Râmi, advancing hesitatingly, and
                    with a curious diffidence in his manner—"And more than willing. Your presence
                    honours this poor house and brings with it a certain benediction."
                "Gracefully said, El-Râmi!" exclaimed the monk with a keen flash of his deep-set
                    blue eyes—"Where did you learn to make pretty speeches? I remember you of old
                    time as brusque of tongue and obstinate of humour,—and even now humility sits
                    ill upon you,—'tis not your favourite practised household virtue."
                El-Râmi flushed, but made no reply. He seemed all at once to have become even to
                    himself the merest foolish nobody before this his remarkable-looking visitor
                    with the brow  and eyes of an inspired
                    evangelist, and the splendid lines of thought, aspiration and endeavour marking
                    the already noble countenance with an expression seldom seen on features of
                    mortal mould. Féraz now came forward to proffer wine and sundry other
                    refreshments, all of which were courteously refused.
                "This lad has grown, El-Râmi—" said the stranger, surveying Féraz with much
                    interest and kindliness,—"since he stayed with us in Cyprus and studied our
                    views of poesy and song. A promising youth he seems,—and still your slave?"
                El-Râmi gave a gesture of deprecation.
                "You mistake—" he replied curtly—"He is my brother and my friend,—as such he
                    cannot be my slave. He is as free as air."
                "Or as an eagle that ever flies back to its eyrie in the rocks out of sheer
                    habit—" observed the monk with a smile—"In this case you are the eyrie, and the
                    eagle is never absent long! Well—what now, pretty lad?" this, as Féraz, moved by
                    a sudden instinct which he could not explain to himself, dropped reverently on
                    one knee.
                
                "Your blessing—" he murmured timidly. "I have heard it said that your touch
                    brings peace,—and I—I am not at peace."
                The monk looked at him benignly.
                "We live in a world of storm, my boy—" he said gently—"where there is no peace
                    but the peace of the inner spirit. That, with your youth and joyous nature, you
                    should surely possess,—and if you have it not, may God grant it you! 'Tis the
                    best blessing I can devise."
                And he signed the Cross on the young man's forehead with a gentle lingering
                    touch,—a touch under which Féraz trembled and sighed for pleasure, conscious of
                    the delicious restfulness and ease that seemed suddenly to pervade his
                    being.
                "What a child he is still, this brother of yours!" then said the monk, turning
                    abruptly towards El-Râmi—"He craves a blessing,—while you have progressed beyond
                    all such need!"
                El-Râmi raised his dark eyes,—eyes full of a burning pain and pride,—but made no
                    answer. The monk looked at him steadily—and heaved a quick sigh.
                
                "Vigilate et orate ut non intretis in
                        tentationem!" he murmured,—"Truly, to forgive is easy—but to
                    forget is difficult. I have much to say to you, El-Râmi,—for this is the last
                    time I shall meet you "before I go hence and be no more seen."'
                Féraz uttered an involuntary exclamation.
                "You do not mean," he said almost breathlessly—"that you are going to die?"
                "Assuredly not!" replied the monk with a smile—"I am going to live. Some people
                    call it dying—but we know better,—we know we cannot die."
                "We are not sure—" began El-Râmi.
                "Speak for yourself, my friend!" said the monk cheerily—"I am
                    sure,—and so are those who labour with me. I am not made of perishable
                    composition any more than the dust is perishable. Every grain of dust contains a
                    germ of life—I am co-equal with the dust, and I contain my germ also, of life
                    that is capable of infinite reproduction."
                El-Râmi looked at him dubiously yet wonderingly. He seemed the very embodiment of
                    physical strength and vitality, yet  he only
                    compared himself to a grain of dust. And the very dust held the seeds of
                    life!—true!—then, after all, was there anything in the universe, however small
                    and slight, that could die utterly? And was Lilith right when she
                    said there was no death? Wearily and impatiently El-Râmi pondered
                    the question,—and he almost started with nervous irritation when the slight
                    noise of the door shutting, told him that Féraz had retired, leaving him and his
                    mysterious visitant alone together.
                Some minutes passed in silence. The monk sat quietly in El-Râmi's own chair, and
                    El-Râmi himself stood close by, waiting, as it seemed, for something; with an
                    air of mingled defiance and appeal. Outside, the rain and wind continued their
                    gusty altercation;—inside, the lamp burned brightly, shedding warmth and lustre
                    on the student-like simplicity of the room. It was the monk himself who at last
                    broke the spell of the absolute stillness.
                "You wonder," he said slowly—"at the reason of my coming here,—to you, who are a
                    recreant from the mystic tie of our 
                        brother-
                        brotherhood
                    
                     hood,—to you, who have employed the most
                    sacred and venerable secrets of our Order, to wrest from Life and Nature the
                    material for your own self-interested labours. You think I come for
                    information—you think I wish to hear from your own lips the results of your
                    scientific scheme of supernatural ambition,—alas, El-Râmi Zarânos!—how little
                    you know me! Prayer has taught me more science than Science will ever
                    grasp,—there is nothing in all the catalogue of your labours that I do not
                    understand, and you can give me no new message from lands beyond the sun. I have
                    come to you out of simple pity,—to warn you and if possible to save."
                El-Râmi's dark eyes opened wide in astonishment.
                "To warn me?" he echoed—"To save? From what?—Such a mission to me is
                    incomprehensible."
                "Incomprehensible to your stubborn spirit,—yes, no doubt it is—" said the monk,
                    with a touch of stern reproach in his accents,—"For you will not see that the
                    Veil of the Eternal, though it may lift itself for you a little  from other men's lives, hangs dark across your own,
                    and is impervious to your gaze. You will not grasp the fact that though it may
                    be given to you to read other men's passions, you cannot read your own. You have
                    begun at the wrong end of the mystery, El-Râmi,—you should have mastered
                    yourself first before seeking to master others. And now there is danger ahead of
                    you—be wise in time,—accept the truth before it is too late."
                El-Râmi listened, impatient and incredulous.
                "Accept what truth?" he asked somewhat bitterly—"Am I not searching for truth
                    everywhere? and seeking to prove it? Give me any sort of truth to hold, and I
                    will grasp it as a drowning sailor grasps the rope of rescue!"
                The monk's eyes rested on him in mingled compassion and sorrow.
                "After all these years—" he said—"are you still asking Pilate's question?"
                "Yes—I am still asking Pilate's question!" retorted El-Râmi with sudden
                    passion—"See you—I know who you are,—great and wise, a master of the arts and
                    sciences, and with all your stores of learning, still a servant of  Christ, which to me, is the wildest, maddest
                    incongruity. I grant you that Christ was the holiest man that ever lived on
                    earth,—and if I swear a thing in His name, I swear an oath that shall not be
                    broken. But in His Divinity, I cannot, I may not, I dare not believe!—except in
                    so far that there is divinity in all of us. One man, born of woman, destined to
                    regenerate the world!—the idea is stupendous,—but impossible to reason!"
                He paced the room impatiently.
                "If I could believe it—I say "if,"'—he continued, "I should still think it a
                    clumsy scheme. For every human creature living should be a reformer and
                    regenerator of his race."
                "Like yourself?" queried the monk calmly. "What have you done, for
                    example?"
                El-Râmi stopped in his walk to and fro.
                "What have I done?" he repeated—"Why—nothing! You deem me proud and
                    ambitious,—but I am humble enough to know how little I know. And as to
                    proofs,—well, it is the same story—I have proved nothing."
                
                "So! Then are your labours wasted?"
                "Nothing is wasted,—according to your theories even. Your
                    theories—many of them—are beautiful and soul-satisfying, and this one of there
                    being no waste in the economy of the universe is, I believe, true. But I cannot
                    accept all you teach. I broke my connection with you because I could not bend my
                    spirit to the level of the patience you enjoined. It was not rebellion,—no! for
                    I loved and honoured you—and I still revere you more than any man alive, but I
                    cannot bow my neck to the yoke you consider so necessary. To begin all work by
                    first admitting one's weakness!—no!—Power is gained by never-resting ambition,
                    not by a merely laborious humility."
                "Opinions differ on that point"—said the monk quietly—"I never sought to check
                    your ambition—I simply said—Take God with you. Do not leave Him out. He IS.
                    Therefore His existence must be included in everything, even in the scientific
                    examination of a drop of dew. Without Him you grope in the dark—you lack the key
                    to the mystery. As an example of this, you are yourself  battering against a shut door, and fighting with a
                    Force too strong for you."
                "I must have proofs of God!" said El-Râmi very deliberately—"Nature proves her
                    existence; let God prove His!"
                "And does He not prove it?" inquired the monk with mingled passion and
                    solemnity—"Have you to go further than the commonest flower to find Him?"
                El-Râmi shrugged his shoulders with an air of light disdain.
                "Nature is Nature,"—he said—"God—
                        an
                        and
                     there be a God—is God. If God works through Nature He arranges things
                    very curiously on a system of mutual destruction. You talk of flowers,—they
                    contain both poisonous and healing properties,—and the poor human race has to
                    study and toil for years before finding out which is which. Is that just of
                    Nature—or God? Children never know at all,—and the poor little wretches die
                    often through eating poison-berries of whose deadly nature they were not aware.
                    That is what I complain of—we are not aware of evil, and we are not made aware.
                         We have to find it out for ourselves. And
                    I maintain that it is wanton cruelty on the part of the Divine Element to punish
                    us for ignorance which we cannot help. And so the plan of mutual destructiveness
                    goes on, with the most admirable persistency; the eater is in turn eaten, and as
                    far as I can make out, this seems to be the one Everlasting Law. Surely it is an
                    odd and inconsequential arrangement? As for the business of creation, that is
                    easy, if once we grant the existence of certain component parts of space. Look
                    at this, for example"—and he took from a corner a thin steel rod about the size
                    of an ordinary walking cane—"If I use this magnet, and these few crystals"—and
                    he opened a box on the table, containing some sparkling powder like diamond
                    dust, a pinch of which he threw up into the air—"and play with them thus, you
                    see what happens!"
                And with a dexterous steady motion, he waved the steel rod rapidly round and
                    round in the apparently empty space where he had tossed aloft the pinch of
                    powder, and  gradually there grew into shape
                    out of the seeming nothingness, a round large brilliant globe of prismatic
                    tints, like an enormously magnified soap-bubble, which followed the movement of
                    the steel magnet rapidly and accurately. The monk lifted himself a little in his
                    chair and watched the operation with interest and curiosity—till presently
                    El-Râmi dropped the steel rod from sheer fatigue of arm. But the globe went on
                    revolving steadily by itself for a time, and El-Râmi pointed to it with a
                    smile—
                "If I had the skill to send that bubble-sphere out into space, solidify it, and
                    keep it perpetually rolling," he said lightly, "it would in time exhale its own
                    atmosphere and produce life, and I should be a very passable imitation of the
                    Creator."
                At that moment, the globe broke and vanished like a melting snowflake, leaving no
                    trace of its existence but a little white dust which fell in a round circle on
                    the carpet. After this display, El-Râmi waited for his guest to speak, but the
                    monk said nothing.
                
                "You see," continued El-Râmi—"it requires a great deal to satisfy me
                    with proofs. I must have tangible Fact, not vague Imagining."
                The monk raised his eyes,—what searching calm eyes they were!—and fixed them full
                    on the speaker.
                "Your Sphere was a Fact,"—he said quietly—"Visible to the eye, it glittered and
                    whirled—but it was not tangible, and it had no life in it. It is a fair example
                    of other Facts,—so-called. And you could not have created so much as that
                    perishable bubble, had not God placed the materials in your hands. It is odd you
                    seem to forget that. No one can work without the materials for working,—the
                    question remains, from Whence came those materials?"
                El-Râmi smiled with a touch of scorn.
                "Rightly are you called Supreme Master!" he said—"for your faith is
                    marvellous—your ideas of life both here and hereafter, beautiful. I wish I could
                    accept them. But I cannot. Your way does not seem to me clear or reasonable,—and
                    I have thought it out in  every direction.
                    Take the doctrine of original sin for example—what is original sin, and why
                    should it exist?"
                "It does not exist—" said the monk quickly—"except in so far that we
                    have created it. It is we, therefore, who must destroy it."
                El-Râmi paused, thinking. This was the same lesson Lilith had taught.
                "If we created it—" he said at last, "and there is a God who is omnipotent, why
                    were we allowed to create it?"
                The monk turned round in his chair with ever so slight a gesture of
                    impatience.
                "How often have I told you, El-Râmi Zarânos," he said,—"of the gift and
                    responsibility bestowed on every human unit—Free-Will. You, who seek for proofs
                    of the Divine, should realize that this is the only proof we have in ourselves,
                    of our close relation to "the image of God." God's Laws exist,—and it is our
                    first business in life to know and understand these—afterwards, our fate is in
                    our own hands,—if we transgress law, or if we fulfil law, we know, or ought to
                         know, the results. If we choose to make
                    evil, it exists till we destroy it—good we cannot make, because it
                    is the very breath of the Universe, but we can choose to breathe in
                    it and with it. I have so often gone over this ground with you,
                    that it seems mere waste of words to go over it again,—and if you cannot, will
                    not see that you are creating your own destiny and shaping it to your own will,
                    apart from anything that human or divine experience can teach you, then you are
                    blind indeed. But time wears on apace,—and I must speak of other things;—one
                    message I have for you that will doubtless cause you pain." He waited a
                    moment-then went on slowly and sadly—"Yes,—the pain will be bitter and the
                    suffering long,—but the fiat has gone forth, and ere long, you will be called
                    upon to render up the Soul of Lilith."
                El-Râmi started violently,—flushed a deep red, and then grew deadly pale.
                "You speak in enigmas—" he said huskily and with an effort—"What do you know—how
                    have you heard—"
                
                He broke off,—his voice failed him, and the monk looked at him
                    compassionately.
                "Judge not the power of God, El-Râmi Zarânos!" he said solemnly—"for it seems you
                    cannot even measure the power of man. What!—did you think your secret experiment
                    safely hid from all knowledge save your own?—nay! you mistake. I have watched
                    your progress step by step—your proud march onward through such mysteries as
                    never mortal mind dared penetrate before,—but even these wonders have their
                    limits—and those limits are, for you, nearly reached. You must set your captive
                    free!"
                "Never!" exclaimed El-Râmi passionately. "Never, while I live! I defy the heavens
                    to rob me of her!—by every law in nature, she is mine!"
                "Peace!" said the monk sternly—"Nothing is yours,—except the fate you have made
                    for yourself. That is yours; and that must and will be fulfilled.
                    That, in its own appointed time, will deprive you of Lilith."
                El-Râmi's eyes flashed wrath and pain.
                
                "What have you to do with my fate?" he demanded—"How should you know what is in
                    store for me? You are judged to have a marvellous insight into spiritual things,
                    but it is not insight after all so much as imagination and instinct. These may
                    lead you wrong,—you have gained them, as you yourself admit, through nothing but
                    inward concentration and prayer—my discoveries are the result of
                    scientific exploration,—there is no science in prayer!"
                "Is there not?"—and the monk, rising from his chair, confronted El-Râmi with the
                    reproachful majesty of a king who faces some recreant vassal—"Then with all your
                    wisdom you are ignorant,—ignorant of the commonest laws of simple Sound. Do you
                    not yet know—have you not yet learned that Sound vibrates in a million million
                    tones through every nook and corner of the Universe? Not a whisper, not a cry
                    from human lips is lost—not even the trill of a bird or the rustle of a leaf.
                    All is heard,—all is kept,—all is reproduced at will forever and ever. What is
                    the use of your modern  toys, the phonograph
                    and the telephone, if they do not teach you the fundamental and external law by
                    which these adjuncts to civilization are governed? God—the great, patient loving
                    God—hears the huge sounding-board of space re-echo again and yet again with
                    rough curses on His Name,—with groans and wailings; shouts, tears and laughter
                    send shuddering discord through His Everlasting Vastness, but amid it all there
                    is a steady strain of music,—full, sweet and pure—the music of perpetual prayer.
                    No science in prayer! Such science there is, that by its power the very ether
                    parts asunder as by a lightning-stroke—the highest golden gateways are
                    unbarred,—and the connecting-link 'twixt God and Man, stretches itself through
                    Space, between and round all worlds, defying any force to break the current of
                    its messages."
                He spoke with fervour and passion,—El-Râmi listened silent and unconvinced.
                "I waste my words, I know—" continued the monk—"For you, Yourself suffices. What
                    your brain dares devise,—what your  hand dares
                    attempt, that you will do, unadvisedly, sure of your success without the help of
                    God or man. Nevertheless—you may not keep the Soul of Lilith."
                His voice was very solemn yet sweet; El-Râmi, lifting his head, looked full at
                    him, wonderingly, earnestly, and as one in doubt. Then his mind seemed to grasp
                    more completely his visitor's splendid presence,—the noble face, the soft
                    commanding eyes,—and instinctively he bent his proud head with a sudden
                    reverence.
                "Truly you are a god-like man—" he said slowly—"God-like in strength, and
                    pure-hearted as a child. I would trust you in many things, if not in all.
                    Therefore,—as by some strange means you have possessed yourself of my
                    secret,—come with me,—and I will show you the chiefest marvel of my science—the
                    life I claim—the spirit I dominate. Your warning I cannot accept, because you
                    warn me of what is impossible. Impossible—I say, impossible!—for the human
                    Lilith, God's Lilith, died—according to God's will; my
                    Lilith lives, according to  My will. Come and
                    see,—then perhaps you will understand how it is that I—I, and not God any
                    longer,—claim and possess the Soul I saved!"
                With these words, uttered in a thrilling tone of pride and passion, he opened the
                    study door and with a mute inviting gesture, led the way out. In silence and
                    with a pensive step, the monk slowly followed.
            
            END OF VOL. I.
            BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS. GUILDFORD. G., C. & Co.
        
        
    
