
     ----CITATION----
        Belloc, Bessie Rayner (1829-1925). In a Walled Garden. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 392 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (12-Jan-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7193
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    IN A WALLED GARDEN 
                
                BY BESSIE RAYNER BELLOC
                
                    LONDON 
                    WARD AND DOWNEY Limited
                        12 YORK BUILDINGS, ADELPHI, W.C.
                
                1895
                [All rights reserved]
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    A GHOSTLY PROCESSION vii
                    DOROTHEA CASAUBON AND GEORGE ELIOT 1
                    JOSEPH PRIESTLY IN DOMESTIC LIFE 25
                    IN ROME WITH MRS. JAMESON 64
                    MARY HOWITT 78
                    LADY GEORGIANA FULLERTON 100
                    AN OLD WORLD PRINCE 112
                    MONTAGUS AND PROCTERS 135
                    A CHAPTER OF WAR 179
                    DR. MANNING OF BAYSWATER 209
                    MRS. BOOTH 222
                    THE MODESTY OF NATURE 232
                    ON LIVING WELL TO THE FRONT 242
                    WHAT TO DO, THEN? 252
                    WHAT COMES AFTER 259
                    THE DAY AFTER TO?MORROW 265
                    A GROUP OF FRENCH FRIENDS— 
                        COMTE ADOLPHE DE CIRCOURT 270
                            MADEMOISELLE ADELAIDE DE MONTGOLFIER 285
                        
                    THE SHOEMAKER’S STORY 296
                    A WIDOW INDEED 302
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A GHOSTLY PROCESSION.
                THE sun is sinking behind the great screen of rose bushes and
                    laurustinus which divides the lawn from the vegetables in this small domain,
                    which has been a garden for two hundred years; nay, for a longer time, for if
                    the dwelling dates, as may be seen by a legible inscription, from the year of
                    the death of Queen Anne, the kitchen and dairy are probably the remains of an
                    Elizabethan cottage; while the pointed tower of the parish church, just piercing
                    above the swathing ivy of the northern wall, is centuries earlier. The
                    foundation stone was laid by St. Anselm.
                The twilight falls, the stars come out, the “Great Bear” begins its slow movement
                    upon the darkening sky, and I hear the steps of bygone generations passing up
                    the village street. They come in the costume which Chaucer wore when that old
                    church was new. They come in brown straight
                    gowns and light?coloured tunics; they come in armour, in peaked hats and in
                    peaked shoes, in gold chains and plentiful embroidery. Some of them are
                    horsemen, and others monks, and there is a fair proportion of hooded goodwives
                    and young maidens. We know that they thus came up the street to hear the news of
                    Agincourt, and again on the day of Bosworth Field, and when Flodden was being
                    fought to the bitter end. Do you hear the echo of the bugle thrown back from the
                    neighbouring down? It means a royal progress—a Henry or an Edward comes to lodge
                    in the monastery hard by. For at the head of the street, in its noble park, was
                    a great monastery, one directly attached to the See of Canterbury. Such
                    ecclesiastical strongholds existed at intervals of twenty miles all the way to
                    the Land’s End. Centuries older than London without the Walls, they were once
                    centres of vivid local life, though now the place thereof may be silent and far
                    from a high road. Such another, and indeed far more obliterated by the dust of
                    time, is Robertsbridge, whose Abbot was sent to find and rescue Cœur de Lion. In
                    this autumn season a garden full of crimson hollyhocks abuts upon the great grey gable of a farm, which can only
                    be reached by a narrow winding lane, and is itself the only remnant of that once
                    famous Abbey of the Rother.
                But here, where a stately house has incorporated the monastery, and where village
                    life has never ceased to murmur, all the ground is haunted. 
                        It
                        
                     has happened to me to be aware of the faint whispers of old
                    conversations in this garden; the talk of the masons who built successive
                    portions of the dwelling—from those who hoisted up the beam in the dairy when
                    Shakespeare was alive, to those who put in the parlour panels while Marlborough
                    was fighting in Flanders—and the gossip of the women who cooked their dinners in
                    the neighbouring cottages, by fires practically unextinguished from then till
                    now, for as each hearth crumbled by time another was built upon the same place.
                    The contour of the village makes it certain that the ancient cottages stood
                    where the modern ones do now, inheriting the traditions of twenty
                    generations.
                And I hear yet one other ghostly voice. It is that of a young girl who grew up in
                    the great house 150 years ago; her name was Barbara, and so far as I know, there exists of her no
                    portrait. In the year 1749 she made a very great marriage. She wedded the son of
                    a famous man who had been executed on Tower Hill three years before, and whose
                    estates had been confiscated to the Crown. Barbara, who survived what brothers
                    and sisters she may have had, remade her husband’s fortunes. The people who
                    lived in this old house were not her tenants; they were farming squires of mild
                    pretension. They had dwelt in Sussex from generation to generation, and when
                    those ghastly executions took place in London the news must have travelled very
                    rapidly down to a house like this. It must have thrilled with horror the family
                    at the great house, who were Catholics, and every detail must have circulated
                    through the village. Sitting in the garden, I have seen the girl come in with
                    her lover, James Bartholomew, a young man of five?and?twenty. She wears a
                    sacque; she is dressed like Clarissa Harlowe. He has a coat of coloured silk and
                    a three?cornered hat. When they are married, the bells of the parish church will
                    ring; and so also for the birth of their one boy, Antony James. Antony James and his august widow carried on the history of
                    this village for 110 years. Is it wonderful that Barbara and her descendants
                    should yet inhabit for me the scenes where they were born and died?
            
            
            
                DOROTHEA CASAUBON AND GEORGE ELIOT.
                
                    I.—DOROTHEA CASAUBON.
                    CHANCE brought into my hands three years ago Mr. Richard Hutton’s
                        fine volume on the “Leaders of Religious Thought in England”; and I turned
                        with natural interest to the essay on George Eliot, who was so intimately
                        known to me through a long series of years, and to the criticism on
                        “Middlemarch” and its heroine, Dorothea Casaubon. And I reflected that, so
                        far as I knew, nearly all the elaborate criticisms on George Eliot’s work
                        had been written by men. Women seem to have held aloof with a sort of fear
                        from any attempt to measure the achievements of that extraordinary mind; and
                        yet neither her ponderous weight of learning, nor the full flow of her
                        thought, nor the 
                            extra? ordinary
                            extraordinary
                         wealth of illustration with which she wrought out her meaning
                        should have hindered women from discussing the utterances of one who was in
                        her own person essentially womanly, and who bore down upon the younger
                        members of her own sex with what seemed for a time to be an almost
                        irresistible impact.
                    There are reasons which make “Middlemarch” especially interesting to me; for
                        it was there that I first saw the writer! It is a much truer book than “Adam
                        Bede”—truer, I mean, to the real conviction of the creating mind. “Adam
                        Bede” is a wonderful tour de force—a
                        painting from knowledge and observation of a group of people known, for the
                        most part, to George Eliot in her youth, and the finest of whom were
                        profoundly moved by convictions on which had ceased to have the slightest
                        hold. During the years when I saw her most intimately, I had with her
                        private conversations, and heard her speak with others in a weighty,
                        thoughtful manner which left not the slightest loophole for the idea that at
                        this period of her life, from 1850 onwards, she retained any faith in
                        Christianity. I think that her unbelief was historical, I had almost said mechanical, but it was of the most sincere
                        and absolute kind.
                    Yet these intellectual conclusions were in singular opposition to the general
                        cast of her character. Born myself in the very bosom of Puritan England, and
                        fed daily upon the strict letter of the Scripture from aged lips which I
                        regarded with profound reverence, I am in a position to declare that, from
                        first to last, George Eliot was the living incarnation of English Dissent.
                        She had “Chapel” written in every line of the thoughtful, somewhat severe,
                        face; not the flourishing Dissent of Spurgeon or Parker, or the florid
                        kindliness of Ward Beecher, or the culture of Stopford Brooke, but the
                        Dissent of Jonathan Edwards, of Philip Henry, of John Wesley as he was
                        ultimately forced to be. Her horror of a lie, her unflinching industry, and
                        sedulous use of all her talents, her extraordinary courage—even her dress,
                        which, spend as she might and ultimately did, could never be lifted into
                        fashion and retained a certain quaint solemnity of cut and gesture like an
                        eighteenth?century diction applied to clothes—everything about her, to me,
                            suggested Bunyan in his Bedford prison,
                        or Mary Bosanquet watched by Fletcher of Madeley as she bore the pelting of
                        the stones in the streets of Northampton. No one has ever before said this,
                        so far as I know; no one has ever attempted to describe her as I saw her in
                        her younger years, but I think I saw the truth. She has been compared
                        personally to Dante and Savonarola. I think that her real affinity may be
                        traced nearer home; that there was in her nothing Italian, nothing in any
                        sense foreign; in the Wars of the Roses her ancestors would have adhered to
                        any leader who promised best for the people; in those of the Commonwealth
                        the brewer of Huntingdon would have commanded them to a man. And precisely
                        in such an atmosphere, except for certain differences of speculative
                        opinion, did I first see George Eliot. Driving from Warwick through the
                        arching elms of that embowered nook of the Shires, with a very dear and
                        gifted companion (a descendant of Oliver Cromwell), we reached Coventry, and
                        Rose Bank, the house of Mr. Charles Bray. It lay on the outskirts of that
                        provincial town which has been rendered doubly famous by George Eliot’s life and letters, and is at least the
                        suggestion of the Middlemarch of her dream. There, being at the time myself
                        just one and twenty, I was taken to make the acquaintance of the very
                        learned scholar, Miss Evans. Not Abelard in all his glory, not the veritable
                        Isaac Casaubon of French Huguenot fame, not Spinosa in Holland or Porson in
                        England, seemed to my young imagination more astonishing than this woman,
                        herself not far removed from youth, who knew a bewildering number of learned
                        and modern languages, and wrote articles in a first?class quarterly.
                    I remember the scene vividly, though, unfortunately, after so long an
                        interval of time, I can remember none of the conversation. George Eliot had
                        a bad headache, and received us kindly and politely, but with an air of
                        resigned fatigue, Mr. Bray himself was a great talker; always full of ideas,
                        somewhat vigorously expressed. I do not remember that Miss Evans said any
                        noteworthy thing, but I looked at her reverently, and noticed her
                        extraordinary quantity of beautiful brown hair (always to the last a great
                        charm), and that we all went out and stood on a sort of little terrace at the end of the garden,
                        to see the sunset, and that the light fell full on her head and was
                        reflected from her kind blue eyes. And as night fell, my companion and I
                        were driven back to Warwick, and I did not see the learned scholar again
                        till the next year in London, the year 1851.
                    And so it came to pass that when “Middlemarch” was published, many years
                        after, the place seemed familiar to me, and Dorothea stood beneath elms with
                        the sunset falling upon her hair, and that she has always been to me most
                        real, though I cannot but think most unreasonable in her misuse of life. The
                            girl is real enough; it is her chances which she and her
                        biographer seem to me to have singularly missed, probably because the very
                        weight and worth of English Dissenters forty to fifty years ago secluded
                        them from all society but their own. From the aristocracy and from the
                        wealthy landed gentry they were absolutely cut off. They never
                        rode steeplechases by moonlight with their nightshirts buttoned over their
                        uniforms; they did not frequent a doubtful salon at Holland
                        House, or a much more doubtful one at Kensington Gore; to them a woman of indifferent reputation
                        was only that and nothing more, whatever her abilities or her place in the
                        world. The old scandals of the pre?Victorian Court, the occasional trials
                        before the Lords, the wine and the whisky of the political dinner, the
                        hunting pastor who strolled into his wife’s bedroom in pink, cracking his
                        whip as he bent to kiss his new?born child—all these things were as far from
                        the horizon of the Dissenters then as they are from ours now, and farther.
                        But it was not wholly gain; some things were missed which might well be
                        totted up on the other side. The wide political skyline, the knowledge of
                        foreign countries, of the embassies and the diplomatic services, the
                        unbroken links with the older Roman Catholic families—Howards, Talbots,
                        Petres, Arundels, Welds—and the stirrings of the new life among the Catholic
                        converts; add to these the traditions of the stage, the Kembles and the
                        Keans, Garrick’s widow only lately dead (she survived her husband for nearly
                        fifty years); add to these whatever life remained in the English Church, a
                        life soon to re?blossom like the rose; and it must, I think, be 
                            acknow? ledged
                            acknowledged
                         that the noble, pure?hearted English Dissenters saw but one side
                        of the national truth. As between them and the rest of the nation a gulf was
                        fixed which can only be measured from where we now stand, when the lines of
                        parties are so much effaced, when the Catholic Church is daily rising in
                        power, when the press and the railroad and the post are more and more
                        welding our peoples into one.
                    George Eliot, I think, places her story just before the passing of the Reform
                        Bill, a period which in Warwickshire brought out the sharpest contrasts
                        between the classes. Radical Birmingham was with difficulty kept from
                        rising, and when the one vote carried the Bill, a gentleman—my father—drove
                        at a gallop through the night in one of Lord Grey’s carriages and brought
                        the first news to the “Metropolis of the Midlands.” Ah! those were days when
                        the telegraph and the railroad were alike unknown. Great affairs of State
                        were swung off by signal from the huge arms of the great machine on the roof
                        of the Admiralty, and were repeated from the Telegraph Hill at Hampstead to
                        Harrow, and far across to the north or south, as the case might be. But for any other sort of news we
                        galloped through the night. The landed gentry were ensconced in their parks,
                        and the one family with which George Eliot’s father was locally connected
                        paid ninepence, as did all the rest of the world, for their letters—unless
                        they obtained franks, as was probable. Strange antique world, that I, though
                        not yet very old, can faintly remember. The coaches with four horses and a
                        horn which stopped at the Mitre Inn in Oxford; the post?chaises and their
                        relays which, perchance, as happened to one of ours, were wrecked against
                        carts at two o’clock in the morning, to the great danger of life and limb;
                        and for foreign parts the travelling carriage shipped at Dover, and thence
                        rumbling all over the Continent, exactly as if the inmates were Horace
                        Walpole or Lord Chesterfield doing the grand tour; such were our
                        conveyances. Moi qui vous parle, I have
                        spent eight days posting between Paris and Geneva, and three days from
                        Boulogne to the capital, halting at Montreux, at Abbeville, and at
                        Amiens.
                    Such being the outer world into which Dorothea Casaubon was born, George
                        Eliot formed the opinion that her moral chances were very poor indeed. And yet, strange to say, at
                        that very time, and in that very circle wherein is laid the beautiful drama
                        of Mr. Gilfil’s love?story, a girl was actually born who has proved to be
                        one of the principal, and certainly one of the most really efficient,
                        workers of modern times. It has always seemed to me a curious irony of
                        literary fate which made her create a Dorothea in Warwickshire, in Coventry,
                        in the very class, almost in the very family, in which Mr. Newdigate’s
                        energetic cousin was born!
                    Dorothea, then, starts with more than average intelligence; thirty years
                        later than Jane Austen’s heroine, delightful Elizabeth Bennet; and so far
                        touched with the modern spirit that she burns with desire to do good, which,
                        oddly enough, is inspired by the example of St. Theresa. Now, St. Theresa
                        was a cloistered nun (George Eliot, be it noted, had an early attraction to
                        Spain), and her work was not outwardly practical, but spiritual. Its
                        efficacy entirely depended upon the validity of certain alleged facts in
                        regard to prayer and a personal relation to an unseen Christ. The undeniable
                        continuity of St. Theresa’s work, which subsists to this day in full swing and efficacy, is one of
                        the proofs, patent to all, of the deep root of this kind of faith in human
                        nature; but as it was a faith which George Eliot wholly denied, and of which
                        there is no sign of her heroine having in any way partaken, it is singular
                        that so powerful and well?cultivated an intellect should have chosen the
                        Spanish nun, dead three hundred years ago, as a constraining example. I have
                        never been able to understand in what way St. Theresa impressed Dorothea
                        Casaubon, nor why she wanted to resemble the saint. The foundress of some
                        active order would have seemed more to the purpose.
                    Also, in regard to Dorothea’s marriage, her point of view is, to me,
                        inexplicable. To marry for money or position may be wrong, to marry for
                        pity, or for usefulness, or religion, may be foolish and dangerous; but to
                        marry that you may help a man to finish a big book, even were it the
                        all?embracing Code Napoléon, seems to me to be an inconceivable reason. So
                        far had I written, when, on reading the last sentence to a young friend, she
                        answered, quick as lightning: “Ah, well, then, I understand
                        it.” I bow submissive; I feel bound to give
                        the emendation—only remarking that it does not seem to me to partake of that
                        touch of nature which makes the whole world kin.
                    In truth, “Middlemarch” is to me as a landscape seen in the twilight;
                            au teint grisâtre. It is from first to
                        last the plaint of a lost ideal. I do not think it even a true rendering of
                        life as it was lived in England sixty years ago. It would be easy to account
                        for this by saying that the writer had lost “the wider hope.” I prefer not
                        to do it. Such an explanation is, indeed, so far obviously true as that in a
                        country town the most strenuous belief, the most unflagging work, is
                        religious. But the scepticism of “Middlemarch” also extends to things social
                        and human; although at the very time there were forces stirring in England
                        which were about to transform the era of the first gentleman in Europe into
                        that of the Queen and Prince Albert. Surely a notable change.
                    I understand the opening of the story to be about the year 1828, and Dorothea
                        to be about ten years older than George Eliot herself. I have touched on the
                        outward aspect of the England of my own
                        birth; let us see wherein lay the hopeful germs of the future. In 1828 Miss
                        Nightingale was a little student, and Mrs. Fry was a mature woman. Mrs.
                        Fanny Kemble was a bright girl of twenty; two years later she was acting in
                        Birmingham, and impressing her vivid personality on my father’s
                        household—sitting on the hearth, and playing with the youngest child. In the
                        upper sphere of all, the Duchess of Kent was doing her utmost to bring up
                        fitly that young daughter of nine years old, on whose character hung much of
                        the future of England and her colonies. In politics, Grey and Brougham were
                        fighting hard battles with the Tories, and the elder Mill and the young
                        D’Israeli, and another youth, named William Gladstone, were alive in the
                        world of letters, or preparing for the fray. Mr. Newman and Mr. Manning were
                        preparing as hard?working young clergymen. A friend of mine remembers to
                        this day how great a pleasure it was when young Mr. Manning came over to
                        Midhurst, carrying a black bag with his sermon. In Birmingham, two eminent
                        doctors—De Lys, the Frenchman, and Joseph Hodgson, Sir Robert Peel’s
                            friend— were the local Lydgates. The
                        air was trembling with scientific discovery; the railroad and the steamboat
                        were invented, though the former was not yet in use; the photographic plates
                        of the Lunar Society lay hidden in a cupboard, and there had lain for thirty
                        years; but the Penny Magazine, parent of the modern press, with
                        its extraordinary wood?cuts, which cost such a mint of money, was just about
                        to start (its first cut was, I believe, the Dresden Madonna). Harriet
                        Martineau had begun to write, and Mrs. Barbauld had left off. Mrs. Siddons
                        was lately dead, her statue was not yet in Westminster Abbey. Princess
                        Lieven was writing to Earl Grey; and Lady Morgan, in white satin, was
                        stirring up any metropolis wherein she might happen to be with Sir Charles.
                        Surely a bright, eager England of blue and green coats with gilt buttons; of
                        white muslin frocks and hair twisted over high combs; an England full of the
                        last speech and the last sermon; not so very long before “Tract 90.” And all
                        the innumerable ladies of the landed classes whom we, with our own eyes,
                        have during the last forty years seen travelling, painting, writing, and serving on committees,
                        were little girls at their mothers’ knees, like that little Princess who was
                        dutifully to grow up and do heavy work as private secretary to England for
                        fifty?eight years! And into this England was Dorothea Brooke born, with no
                        sort of need, it seems to me, to wish to imitate St. Theresa. We have one or
                        two saints of the world who would have suited her better as a model! Surely,
                        surely, no young woman born in the Shires, however “unked” she might feel at
                        times, had any cause to marry Mr. Casaubon’s big book or Will Ladislaw’s
                        unworthy personality. No, no, Dorothea! I am obliged to admit and believe
                        that you were a real person, but you will never persuade me that you might
                        not have done better in every sense of the word!
                
                
                    II.—GEORGE ELIOT.
                    My younger public, having read the foregoing pages, assure me that I have not
                        given a sufficient description of George Eliot herself. One of them even
                        says, “You have opened a door and shut it in our faces,” adding that, as I
                        had known her so well, I must have something more to say of the most remarkable woman of my generation. And indeed it
                        requires touch upon touch to render such a personality living to those who
                        never saw her, for her power was in some sense a veiled one. In the first
                        place, none of her portraits appear to me to be like her. The one in a
                        hooded bonnet, said to have been sketched in St. James’s Hall, is a
                        monstrous caricature and accidental impression of her face, which was
                        neither harsh nor masculine. The one which prefaces her life is too
                        sentimental. The early photograph, on sale at Spooner’s in the Strand, is
                        very like, but not favourable, and absolutely without any art in the
                        arrangement. It is, however, the only real indication left to us of the true
                        shape of the head, and of George Eliot’s smile and general bearing. In daily
                        life the brow, the blue eyes, and the upper part of the face had a great
                        charm. The lower half was disproportionately long. Abundant brown hair
                        framed a countenance which was certainly not in any sense unpleasing, noble
                        in its general outline, and very sweet and kind in expression. Her height
                        was good, her figure remarkably supple; at moments it had an almost
                            serpentine grace. Her characteristic
                        bearing suggested fatigue; perhaps, even as a girl, she would hardly have
                        been animated; but when she was amused her eyes filled with laughter. She
                        did not look young when I first saw her, and I have no recollection of her
                        ever looking much older.
                    The effect of her presence—it was peculiarly impressive. Her great weight of
                        intellect told in all circles. My father was much attached to her, and
                        whenever any special celebrity was invited to dinner, such as Thackeray,
                        Grote the historian, or old Mr. Warburton (one of the principal founders of
                        the London University), he was never content unless he had also secured his
                        young countrywoman, Marian Evans, for he himself was a Warwickshire man. On
                        these occasions, from 1851 to 1855, she used to wear black velvet, then
                        seldom adopted by unmarried ladies. I can see her descending the great
                        staircase of our house in Savile Row (afterwards the Stafford Club), on my
                        father’s arm, the only lady, except my mother, among the group of remarkable
                        men, politicians, and authors of the first literary rank. She would talk and
                        laugh softly, and look up into my father’s face 
                            respect? fully, while the light
                                of the bright hall?lamp shone on the waving masses of her hair, and
                                the black velvet fell in folds about her feet. But for the
                                deliberate casting away of her social chances when she left for
                                Germany with Mr. Lewes, she would undoubtedly have achieved a very
                                great position in the London world quite independently of her
                                novels. In those years not a soul suspected her of a tinge of
                                imaginative power. A real, deep thought and quiet wit were the
                                characteristics of her talk. Most interesting as it was, I should
                                hesitate to call it charming. There was always a want of brightness
                                in her conversation. Her nature smouldered deeply, and occasionally
                                glowed with interior fire; to the outward eye it never burst into a
                                quick flame.
                            respectfully
                        
                    The story of George Eliot’s life having been fully told in her own letters,
                        the chief question which I can be supposed in any way to answer is: “Why did
                        she act as she did in the principal relation of her life?” I do not know
                        that any sufficient explanation can be given of the reason of human
                        inconsistency. She was the very last woman in England of whom such a step
                            could have been prophesied. She
                        certainly was in all her bearing grave, sincere, and of a sort of provincial
                        reticence. In principle she was a strict monogamist, witness the testimony
                        of all her books; and in every relation of life she placed an immense value
                        upon the virtue of faithfulness. You could not be with her and not recognize
                        that her Yea was yea and that her Nay was nay. But she probably believed,
                        though she would hardly have allowed it in words, written or spoken, in a
                        sliding scale of action; by which I mean that she considered a man or a
                        woman justified, on rare occasions, in taking circumstances into account.
                        Mr. Lewes’s home having been broken up by causes of which I conclude that
                        she held him innocent, George Eliot must have thought that he was justified
                        in forming another tie. I do not think that she would have accepted a light
                        excuse, but it is quite evident that her moral judgment accepted what she
                        herself regarded as a grave one; and I can only say, as a Catholic, that I
                        do not expect people who are not Catholics to think and act as if they were
                        such. It is a distinguishing mark of the Roman Church that she speaks
                            with authority on this matter,
                        independent of what may be called local arguments. She does not leave the
                        conduct of life in the grave matter of marriage dependent upon the judgment
                        of interested parties, but it is surely unreasonable to expect that a woman
                        whose intellect had totally rejected Christianity in any form should have
                        held Mr. Lewes unable to contract what she undoubtedly regarded as a second
                        marriage. He was at the time very ill, threatened with softening of the
                        brain from overwork and worry, and she went with him to Germany and nursed
                        him into convalescence; being herself independent in means and of a worldly
                        position hitherto high and secure. Surely only those who hold the
                        sacramental view of marriage would have had a right to condemn her, and
                        their condemnation would fall nearer the source of the error—on the fatal
                        facility with which, years earlier, she had suffered her spiritual nature to
                        be swept bare. But it behoves us to speak with pain and hesitation of so
                        deep a problem as the responsibility of an individual soul before God. The
                        example was very unfortunate, and was one of many causes which have deeply shaken the old respect for the
                        marriage law in England; and she herself, strangely, lost no opportunity of
                        saying, by pen and speech: “Do not follow my path in life.” At the time of
                        her very sudden and untimely death, her mind was, I think, slowly reverting
                        to some measure of faith—at least, if we may judge by the indications of
                        “Daniel Deronda.” Happier and more normal circumstances, into which she had
                        entered, might have helped that great mind to have regained its freedom of
                        poise, her sense of loyalty being no longer engaged upon the side of
                        wrong.
                    And this brings me to the one mystery which I have ever felt quite unable to
                        solve. That George Eliot should have chosen her own path and created in her
                        own mind a moral code which covered her action—that I can understand. It
                        would be unjust to judge her by a Christian law which she repudiated. But
                        why, in the exercise of this amount of moral liberty, she should have
                        idealized and finally almost worshipped Mr. Lewes, is one of those problems
                        before which those who know the inner wheels of London life in the Fifties
                        may well stand confounded. On the
                        manuscripts now deposited in the British Museum she has left an imperishable
                        testimony to her conception of his worth. The dedications “to my dear and
                        ever dearer husband” rise in a pathetic crescendo of affection and esteem. I had myself at any time
                        but an external acquaintance with Mr. Lewes, never having seen him until the
                        return of George Eliot from Germany. I had been aware of her intention for
                        some weeks before she went away. She told me of it during a long walk round
                        Hyde Park. Needless to say, that I heard her with a sinking heart, and that
                        remonstrance was practically impossible. That conversation seems to me,
                        after a lapse of nearly forty years, to be printed on the very stones of
                        Park Lane. When, after many months, she returned to London, I sought her out
                        with anxious affection. I then saw Mr. Lewes for the first time. And during
                        the long years of their union I saw him occasionally in the drawing?rooms of
                        their various homes. My domestic circumstances withdrew me from George
                        Eliot’s sphere, but the inward tie was never broken. I was, I believe,
                        almost the last person to whom she wrote before her sudden death, after four
                            days’ illness; and I was, perhaps, the
                        first to whom the most unexpected event was communicated by letter, with a
                        request that I would break the intelligence to Madame Bodichon, our close
                        friend.
                    Since, then, my personal knowledge of Mr. Lewes was comparatively slight, I
                        refrain from any observations on him. The impression he made on his
                        contemporaries has been recorded by several among them. There is no real
                        difference in the portraits drawn by Mr. L’Espinasse and Mrs. Lynn Linton,
                        by Carlyle himself and by Mrs. Carlyle in her letters. The acute and
                        brilliant side of his mind is shown in his books, biographical and
                        philosophical. They are delightful reading if not very profound. His moral
                        ideas he has told in “Rose, Blanche, and Violet.” I would add that I believe
                        him to have been very kind and helpful in domestic life. But there will come
                        a time when no care for the living and no respectful reticence with regard
                        to the dead, will check the publication of contemporary diaries and private
                        letters. It is because I see plain signs of that time approaching, that I
                        wish to place on record the exact truth of my conception of George Eliot’s character. It must be borne in mind that to
                        her Mr. Lewes seemed true and reverent. She must have evolved some better
                        self than that perceived by the outer world.
                    I will say in conclusion that I know she loved much, not only the one to whom
                        she gave faithful years of devoted care, but his children, whom she educated
                        and made her own, the friends of her youth, the poor, the sick, and the
                        suffering. She apparently regarded the Christian controversy as relegated to
                        the region of dead intellectual lumber; yet it is true of her, as of all of
                        us, that to our own Master we must stand or fall. To Him I leave my dead
                        friend.
                
            
            
            
                JOSEPH PRIESTLEY IN DOMESTIC LIFE.
                NINETY years have passed since Dr. Joseph Priestley died at
                    Northumberland in Pennsylvania. He is buried there with his wife and youngest
                    son, Henry, and one by one a group of American descendants have been gathered to
                    his side in that simple graveyard. With his scientific achievements I am
                    incompetent to deal; but it seems to me that his reputation is not lessened by
                    the lapse of years. He had the divining intellect which suggested even more than
                    it achieved. He told to his contemporaries his successes, and even his mistakes,
                    with the eager simplicity of a child of genius. His statue, modelled from
                    Fuseli’s portrait, was placed in the Oxford Museum by a committee co?operating
                    with Prince Albert; his name figures on the great frieze surrounding the Palais
                    d’Industrie in the Champs Elysées; and Birmingham erected a statue to him in 1874, the centenary of the
                    discovery of oxygen.
                When this statue was inaugurated, my mother, who was born in Pennsylvania, was
                    probably the only person living in England who could personally recall Joseph
                    Priestley. She was seven years old when he died. He had taught her to read, and
                    her memory of him remained perfectly clear and vivid. The delicate features of
                    the old man, framed in thin locks of silvery hair, are recorded in the portrait
                    by Artaud before me as I write. This presentment, rather than any of those by
                    Flaxman, is what my mother affirmed to be the real grandfather she remembered.
                    It may not be without interest to try and recover some traits of the man as he
                    was, according to the last echo of oral tradition. Also to this end indirect
                    help is given by a record which he left of his private life, an old?fashioned
                    reticent autobiography, which, though several times reprinted, is hardly known
                    in general literature, because it is filled from cover to cover, not with
                    records of the scientific discoveries which were making him famous from one end
                    of Europe to the other, but with thoughts and 
                        interpreta? tions
                        interpretations
                     pertaining to the Scriptures and life eternal. It is impossible to
                    look upon the faded manuscript, in its century?old binding of white skin,
                    without a feeling of deep, pathetic reverence. Matthew, Paul, John—with them he
                    wrestled single?handed, if by any means he might wring out the truth of things
                    divine. He scarcely takes the trouble to note those experiments on electricity,
                    gas, and water which earned for him, even in his own lifetime, the recognition
                    of the civilized world. To this autobiography his eldest son appended a
                    supplementary chapter recording the last years and peaceful death?bed, at which
                    even the little grandchildren were present.
                Modern readers will perhaps regret the destruction by Dr. Priestley himself of
                    the great bulk of his correspondence; and in the first edition of the ‘Life’ Mr.
                    Priestley expresses a sentiment which falls on the ear like a tone from some
                    old?fashioned musical instrument forgotten of men:—
                “The work,” says he, “might have been made more interesting, as well as
                    entertaining, had I deemed myself at liberty to have published letters addressed to my father by persons of eminence
                    in this country (America) as well as in Europe. But those communications, which
                    were intended to be private, shall remain so, as I do not think I have a right
                    to amuse the public either against or without the inclinations of those who
                    confided their correspondence to his care.”
                Many letters have, however, been preserved from oblivion; some have been
                    privately printed in New York, others are in my possession, and now that full
                    ninety years have passed since the last letter was written and received, and
                    that few can even remember in his old age the reverent and scrupulous son, no
                    such obligation need restrain the pen, though the written personal record is at
                    best but meagre.
                It can, however, be supplemented from other sources. Priestley made a great
                    impression upon his contemporaries, as is witnessed by the extraordinary number
                    of portraits and medallions executed in his lifetime; nor did the political
                    caricaturists spare him. Moreover, the dignified household, marked by plain
                    living and high thinking, and at all times poor in worldly goods, became the
                    centre of a very whirlpool. The Birmingham
                    riots raged round Priestley and his friends, and were full of ferocious passion,
                    full also of incident, and of that strange blending of the sublime and the
                    commonplace in which lies the deepest pathos. We have many letters recounting
                    how people lost their property, their loose coin, their keys, and their clothes,
                    as well as precious papers. We are told how the young people of Priestley’s
                    congregation, Mary R. and Sarah S. and their brothers, were hurried away along
                    the country roads by their frightened parents, the mob roaring and racing a mile
                    or two behind; and one of the girls afterwards wrote the best account we have of
                    those four days. In the midst of the turmoil stood Priestley, calm and patient,
                    forbidding the young men of his congregation to strike a blow. In the letters of
                    his contemporaries, rather than in any documents furnished by himself, we must
                    seek for the man.
                He was born in Yorkshire, of an old Presbyterian stock; one branch of the family
                    acquired wealth and lived at Whiteways, but his own immediate ancestors were
                    farmers and clothiers, people of substance in the yeoman class. We can trace them accurately as far back as the middle
                    of the seventeenth century, when one Phœbe Priestley, after wrestling with fever
                    in her household, was herself stricken and “lay like a lamb before the Lord” on
                    her death?bed. Her husband wrote a long and touching account of all she said and
                    did, that her children might know what manner of mother they had lost. These
                    people were presumably of the same stock as the Priestleys of Soylands, who run
                    back into the Middle Ages.
                The children of the Priestley families were all named after Scriptural
                    characters. They were Josephs, Timothys, and Sarahs from one generation to
                    another. The Bible was stamped into them, and from it they drew all the
                    inspiration of their lives. That gifted Joseph, who was to make so singular an
                    impression on his time, and to be associated with Shelburne and Sandwich, with
                    Captain Cook, D’Alembert, and Diderot, and to receive honours from the Empress
                    Catherine of Russia, was born on March 13th (old style) in the year 1733, at
                    Fieldhead, a small stone house about six miles south?west of Leeds. It is now
                    taken down, but I visited it in my youth, and
                    made a rough sketch, which shows that it was rather smaller than the house of
                    Shakespeare’s birth at Stratford?on?Avon, but of much the same type, and
                    probably very ancient. The front door led into the house?place; a division had
                    been made to accommodate two families, but originally, one hundred and sixty
                    years ago, it would have been a solid and respectable homestead, and fifty years
                    later we find Priestley writing to his sister, Mrs. Crouch, at the address of
                    Fieldhead.
                He was the eldest of six, and when quite a little fellow was sent to his maternal
                    grandfather, a farmer at Shapton, near Wakefield, and remained there till his
                    mother’s death in 1740.
                “It is but little,” he says, “that I can recollect of my mother. I remember,
                    however, that she was careful to teach me the Assembly’s Catechism, and to give
                    me the best instruction the little time that I was at home. Once in particular,
                    when I was playing with a pin, she asked me where I got it; and on my telling
                    her that I found it at my uncle’s, who lived very near to my father’s, and where
                    I had been playing with my cousins, she made me carry it back again; no doubt to impress my mind, as it could
                    not fail to do, with the clear idea of the distinction of property, and of the
                    importance of attending to it. She died in the hard winter of 1739, not long
                    after being delivered of my youngest brother, and is said to have dreamed a
                    little before her death that she was in a delightful place which she
                    particularly described, and imagined to be heaven. The last words which she
                    spoke, as my aunt informed me, were: ‘Let me go to that fine place.’”
                Quaint little picture of the Puritan woman whose lesson to her son was to remain
                    indelible, and to be recalled by the old man after a long career of labour and
                    honourable success!
                The boy’s life now underwent a radical change. On his mother’s death he was taken
                    home, the next brother replacing him in the farmer’s household, and before long
                    a sister of his father’s, married to a wealthy man of the name of Keighley,
                    offered to adopt and consider him as her own child. This was when Priestley was
                    nine years old, and for twenty years Mrs. Keighley survived and kept her
                    promise. Her husband, “remarkable for piety and for public spirit,” died soon after the adoption of the child,
                    leaving the greater part of his fortune to the widow, and much of it at her
                    disposal after her death. From this time forward the boy had every advantage of
                    education so far as it could be obtained at a time when the Universities of
                    Oxford and Cambridge were strictly closed to Dissenters. He was well instructed
                    in the learned languages, of which he says he had acquired a pretty good
                    knowledge at the age of sixteen.
                His aunt naturally wished her adopted son to become a minister, and he entered
                    into her views; but becoming, as it was thought, consumptive, he took another
                    great intellectual start. The dead languages were laid aside, and with a view to
                    a mercantile situation the youth learned three modern languages—French, Italian,
                    and High Dutch, all without a master—and in the first and last, says he, “I
                    translated and wrote letters for an uncle of mine who was a merchant, and who
                    intended to put me into a counting?house at Lisbon. A house was actually engaged
                    to receive me there, and everything was nearly ready for my undertaking the
                        voyage.” But the patient’s health improved,
                    and the foreign project was laid aside.
                Priestley, therefore, resumed his theological studies, and in due time was
                    ordained minister; and being a man of great though unconscious ability, wholly
                    free from exaggeration of language, he has drawn a picture of the life led in
                    Yorkshire by Presbyterian divines which must impress the modern reader with
                    astonishment, and perhaps with admiration. No hermits of the desert, no monks of
                    La Trappe, dwelt more serenely in an atmosphere apart. It was the time of Louis
                    the Fifteenth in France and of George the Second in England, and the nephews and
                    nieces of Charlotte Princess Palatine were still living, and her letters, whose
                    name is legion, yet lay stored in the cabinets of her correspondents, full of
                    inexpressible details discussed in most expressive language. It was the time
                    when Jeanie Deans walked from Scotland to beg her sister’s life of Queen
                    Caroline, and met Madge Wildfire in the way. It was the time when the polite
                    world was composed of “men, women, and Herveys”; when Squire Pendarves was found
                    dead in his bed in Greek Street, Soho, leaving
                    his young widow to be courted by John Wesley and wedded by Dr. Delany; when
                    statesmen bribed, and young blades drank, and Sir Harbottle carried off Harriet
                    Byron, whose shrieks brought Sir Charles Grandison to the rescue, sword in hand.
                    It was the period when the Jacobite Rebellion flamed up and expired, when the
                    Young Pretender marched to Derby, and the heads of the decapitated lords were
                    exposed on Temple Bar; tragedies, agonies, highway robberies,—Dick Turpin, Jack
                    Sheppard, smugglers, the press gang;—Frederick Prince of Wales quarrelling in
                    Leicester Square, Queen Caroline on her death?bed telling her weeping little
                    George “que l’un n’empêche pas l’autre,” Horace Walpole making the grand tour,
                    Dean Swift dying in agonized misery. Merciful heavens! what an England, of which
                    we possess the daily diary! We can see Hogarth at his easel, and Sir Joshua
                    taking his first stiff portraits, and Garrick going on pilgrimage to Stratford,
                    and the young king courting Hannah Lightfoot and marrying his little bride from
                    Mecklenburg. Without too much verifying of dates, it is certain that all this was happening before Dr.
                    Priestley was thirty years of age, and that of none of it is there the faintest
                    mention in the account he has drawn up of his own childhood, youth, and young
                    manhood, though he was himself destined to be one of the principal illustrations
                    of the Georgian era. For anything which appears to the contrary, he and his
                    friends might have dwelt in some far serene planet, whose inhabitants were
                    wholly given up to study and to prayer. The tutors and students of Warrington
                    Academy bestowed their whole minds (and very good minds) on the classics, the
                    mathematics and metaphysics, and most of all on the theological discussions upon
                    freewill and necessity, on the exact attributes of the Logos, and the exact
                    results of the Atonement. Keenly alive to the immortal interests of man, the
                    actual world touched them not. Much must be allowed to the absence of
                    newspapers, to the want of easy communication. The men of the North who did not
                    live with their bottle lived with their book; but it does seem strange that
                    forty years later, when writing or revising his own story, Priestley, become in
                    a sense a man of the world, should not recall
                    of those exciting times a single letter; a single speech. Still stranger perhaps
                    is it to note that though during his last years Europe still lay bleeding, he
                    added no word on the great convulsion, nor upon the rise of Buonaparte; except
                    in occasional notices in his private letters, he scarcely makes reference to the
                    French Revolution.¹ It is impossible to
                    doubt that all its details became gradually known to him, but it is the literal
                    truth that his interests lay “otherwhere.” People now talk of true
                    inwardness—such inwardness as Priestley’s was really a “recollectedness” of the
                    most singular kind, and it largely accounts for the extraordinary personal
                    influence he possessed. He impressed those about him as a being from another
                    sphere; of this there are many traces. Yet his own life was really one of the
                    first to be swept into the vortex. When Harry Priestley rushed into the great
                    drawing?room at Barr to tell the Galtons that the Bastille was down, it meant
                    for the boy and his family flaming destruction and exile, and in his own case an
                    early ¹ He received
                        an invitation to stand as deputé for the Departement de l’Orne, which he
                        refused. death. It is Marianne
                    Galton, Mrs. Schimmelpennick, who tells the anecdote.
                Returning to the thread of Priestley’s life story, it was in 1752 that he went as
                    a pupil to the Academy at Daventry, where he remained for three years under a
                    successor of Dr. Doddridge. The new student felt “that peculiar satisfaction
                    with which young persons of generous minds usually go through a course of
                    liberal study in the society of others engaged in the same pursuits, and free
                    from the cares and anxieties which seldom fail to lay hold on them when they
                    come out into the world.”
                The endless discussions of these young persons need not be here analyzed, though
                    they are most curious and interesting. They are accessible in print. In three
                    years Priestley obtained a small appointment as minister at Needham Market, in
                    Suffolk, and seems to have been pleased to get it. His congregation numbered
                    about one hundred, and the salary did not even amount to the now classical forty
                    pounds a year. The young man lived very meagrely. His rich aunt, Mrs. Keighley,
                    had been displeased at his theological opinions, and she had taken a deformed niece into her charge, who ultimately
                    inherited all she had to bequeath. His aunt had always assured him that she
                    would leave him independent of his profession, but he was “satisfied that she
                    was no longer able to perform her promise,” and freely consented to the money
                    being left to his deformed cousin. His aunt finally bequeathed him a silver
                    tankard, and he remarks, “She has spared no expense in my education, and that
                    was doing more for me than giving me an estate.”
                In 1758 he left Needham, going to London by sea to save expense, and from thence
                    to Nantwich, in Cheshire, where he had an offer from a congregation, and where
                    he opened a school for about thirty boys, with a separate room for half a dozen
                    young ladies. Priestley at all times gave his best mind to the teaching of
                    girls, and shows by many incidental words that he held women in as high mental
                    and moral estimation as men; and he does this quite simply, and with no idea of
                    propounding a theory or combating a prejudice. The profits of the school now
                    enabled him to buy a few books, and also some philosophical instruments, which
                    he used merely to instruct and amuse his boys.
                    He tells us that he had no leisure to make any experiments till many years
                    later. A portrait of him at this period of his life shows a slender, intelligent
                    young minister in wig, gown, and bands. At Nantwich he learned to play the
                    flute, and makes the odd observation that he would “recommend the knowledge and
                    practice of music to all studious persons, and it will be better for them if,
                    like myself, they should have no very fine ear or exquisite taste, as by this
                    means they will be more easily pleased and be less apt to be offended when the
                    performances they hear are but indifferent.”
                In 1761 he moved to Warrington, where he succeeded the famous Dr. Aikin as “tutor
                    in the learned languages” at the Academy. “But as I told the persons who brought
                    me the invitation, I should have preferred the office of teaching the
                    mathematics and natural philosophy, for which I had at that time a great
                    predilection.” Here he remained six years, and in the second year became a
                    married man, his wife being sister to one of his pupils, William Wilkinson, and
                    daughter of a wealthy Welsh ironmaster. This is
                    how he writes about her many years later; there is no want of feeling in the
                    simplicity of the style: our great?grandparents did not wear their hearts upon
                    their sleeves:—
                “This proved a very suitable and happy connection, my wife being a woman of an
                    excellent understanding much improved by reading, of great fortitude and
                    strength of mind, and of a temper in the highest degree affectionate and
                    generous, feeling strongly for others and little for herself. Also excelling in
                    everything relating to household affairs, she entirely relieved me of all
                    concern of that kind, which allowed me to give all my time to the prosecution of
                    my studies.”
                It is a tradition in the family that Mrs. Priestley once sent her famous husband
                    to market with a large basket, and that he so acquitted himself that she never
                    sent him again! She was extremely intelligent and original, and her letters are
                    much brighter than the Doctor’s. Lord Shelburne found her one morning sitting on
                    the top of a pair of steps, clad in a great apron, and vigorously pasting on a
                    new well?paper. She received him with calm composure! There is a good portrait of her as an elderly lady in a
                    cap, curving her hand round her ear to assist her hearing. She must have herself
                    insisted upon being painted in this unusual attitude. She certainly looks like a
                    person of excellent understanding whose mind had been much improved by
                    reading.
                In 1767 Priestley received an invitation to take charge of the congregation of
                    Mill Hill Chapel at Leeds, and in September he moved thither, and remained six
                    years. In 1772 he made his first publication on the subject of air. It was a
                    small pamphlet on the method of impregnating water with fixed air. It was
                    immediately translated into French, and excited a great degree of attention to
                    the subject, and in the following year he published his first paper of
                    experiments “in a large article of the Philosophical Transactions,” and was
                    awarded the gold medal of the Royal Society. By the kindness of Mr. Charles
                    Aikin, I am enabled to give a letter written by Priestley to Miss Aikin
                    (afterwards Mrs. Barbauld), which refers to similar experiments. The letter has
                    no postmark, and is undated, but the reference to a second publication by Miss
                    Aikin, and the allusion to Calne, fixes the
                    date as the latter end of 1773.
                “DEAR MISS AIKIN,—You have made me perfectly easy and happy by your answer to my
                    letter, the occasion of which I shall no more think of. Your name was not to the
                    paper.
                “Though I have published so much, I really am not able to give you any advice
                    about your bargain with Mr. Johnson; and can only recommend my own practice,
                    which is to leave it to himself, and to wait the sale of the work, which I hope
                    will be such as to enable him to make you a handsome recompense.
                “I am sorry for Mr. Walker and the Academy, but, after the complaints he has so
                    very publickly made, it is much the most advisable for him to leave you; and
                    though it may not be an easy matter to supply his place so well with respect to
                    his ability, I hope you may be more happy upon the whole with another. I wish
                    you may get some person of reputation, because the Academy will otherwise
                    dwindle into a common school, and of that kind it will never be a first rate or
                    a good one.
                “You say your brother is over heads and ears in
                        chymistry; so am I. Tell him I have just hit upon a process by
                    which I convert pure water into an Alkaline liquor, the smell of
                    which is beyond comparison stronger than anything that has yet been made of the
                    kind. I can also give him a bit of spunge at which he could not bear to smell. I
                    also make spirit of salt much stronger than any that he has seen of
                    pure water. I first produce the Alkaline and acid airs or vapours, and with them
                    impregnate the water to saturation. The former I get immediately from Sal
                    Ammoniac, and the latter from common salt. At present I do little besides
                    attending to my experiments, in which I have been of late peculiarly successful;
                    yesterday I made some remarkable experiments on the mixture of ether with
                    different kinds of air.
                “Tell your father, however, that at intervals I (or rather Mrs. Priestley) am
                    transcribing the third volume of the Institutes, in order to be printed the next
                    winter, and that I hope he will soon see an essay of mine on the subject of
                    giving the Eucharist to children. Mr. Walker makes himself very merry with my
                        conceit, as he calls it, but I
                    am as little moved by the jokes of my friends as the malice of my enemies.
                “I expect much pleasure from your new publication, and Mr. Johnson informs me
                    that it is upon the road to Calne.
                “With my most respectful compliments, I need not say to whom I am
                “Dear Miss Aikin,
                “Yours sincerely,
                “J. PRIESTLEY.”
                In that year Miss Aikin published two volumes, one of verse and one of prose (the
                    first of which went immediately through four editions); and in that year
                    Priestley went to Calne, in, Wiltshire, near Lord Shelburne’s seat of Bowood. He
                    seems to have taken a house in the village for Mrs. Priestley and the children,
                    but to have been constantly occupied in the great House, where he says that his
                    office was “nominally that of librarian,” but that he had “little employment as
                    such.” In the second year he made with Lord Shelburne a considerable tour,
                    visiting Flanders, Holland, and Germany, as far as Strasburg, returning by
                    Paris, where a most interesting month was spent
                    in the brilliant, intellectual society of the Encyclopedists. With
                    characteristic attention to the one thing he thought important, Priestley makes
                    the only observation recorded upon the state of France; remarking, “’As I was
                    sufficiently apprised of the fact, I did not wonder, as I otherwise should have
                    done, to find all the philosophical persons to whom I was introduced in Paris
                    unbelievers in Christianity, and even professed Atheists. As I chose on all
                    occasions to appear as a Christian, I was told by some of them that I was the
                    only person they had ever met with, of whose understanding they had any opinion,
                    who professed to believe Christianity. This was also the case with a great part
                    of the company I saw at Lord Shelburne’s.”
                It is said that a manuscript exists in the Town Library of Aix, in Provence,
                    giving some particulars of Priestley in Paris, but I made a fruitless search for
                    it on the only occasion of remaining a day in that town.
                For some years, while at Leeds, he had managed to spend a month every year in
                    London, and his winters were now passed in the
                    metropolis at Lansdowne House. His noteworthy experiments in the beer vats of a
                    brewery at Leeds had made him known to the members of the Royal Society, he had
                    become intimately acquainted with Benjamin Franklin, and a proposition had even
                    been made that he should accompany Captain Cook in the voyage undertaken in
                    1772. He spent several years in Lord Shelburne’s house, and appears to have
                    moved from thence to Birmingham. But when he had been some years settled in that
                    town, Lord Shelburne “sent an especial messenger and common friend to engage me
                    again in his service,” but Dr. Priestley declined the offer.
                Into the experimental details of that fruitful period of five and twenty years
                    after his departure from Warrington it is needless to enter. It is open to all
                    who care to read about it. His letters and those of his scientific friends are
                    touched by an imaginative light of intellectual dawn. Franklin and Wedgwood,
                    James Watt and the elder Darwin, felt a breeze as from a mountain?top. Not for
                    them was Nature pessimistic in her conclusions. They did not anticipate that a perfected telescope would only
                    serve to bring us within range of the ravening tyrants of the Star! They were
                    haunted by no visions of a dying sun and a cooling earth. Most of them saw God
                    in clouds and heard Him in the wind; and even those who were touched by
                    intellectual atheism conceived of Nature as a boundless realm of progressive
                    wealth, conducive to the use and happiness of man.
                Priestley was made Doctor of Laws by the University of Edinburgh, and a member of
                    the Royal Society by the agency of Franklin. He tells us this in four lines, and
                    goes on to write six close pages on Scriptural matters as discussed by his
                    colleagues, the tutors and ministers of Warrington. During several years he and
                    his wife had to practise the most laborious economy in order to feed and educate
                    their four children. It would be curious to learn what were the necessaries and
                    what the luxuries of life in Yorkshire a hundred and twenty?five years ago. What
                    did meat cost, and was it eaten every day? What was the price of textile
                    fabrics, and what was paid in wages? All who know the details of a minister’s
                    house even in the first half of this century
                    can keenly realize how very hard it was to have everything sacked, torn, and
                    burnt in the Birmingham Riots.
                When these occurred Priestley had been settled eleven years in the town as
                    minister, and very happy years they had proved. His house, Fair Hill, was really
                    in the country, but was then within an easy walk of the central streets. Dotted
                    about were the wealthy abodes of prosperous merchants and manufacturers, and
                    here he found “good workmen” to make his instruments, and “the society of
                    persons eminent for their knowledge of chemistry.” Here he met the Lunar
                    Society, which dined together every month at the full of the moon, and numbered
                    James Watt, Matthew Boulton, Erasmus Darwin, and Mr. Galton among its members.
                    All this happy activity, this peaceful and refined centre of human life, was
                    swept away in four cruel days, and never reconstituted.
                In the first fortnight of July, 1791, a number of Birmingham gentlemen had
                    planned to dine together at an hotel, to commemorate the destruction of the
                    Bastille two years previously. At that time the coming horrors of the
                        Revolution were undreamt of. The French
                    royal family were at the Tuileries, and not a single head had as yet fallen
                    beneath the guillotine. The mild men who wished to dine together in the full
                    light of a blazing afternoon in July had no wish for anything but the highest
                    good of their kind, and Dr. Priestley, meeting Mr. Berrington, the well?known
                    Catholic priest, at tea on Wednesday the 6th, asked him and their host, Mr.
                    William Hutton, to join the banquet. But Mr. Berrington was more acute than the
                    Doctor, and replied, “No; we Catholics stand better with Government than you
                    Dissenters, and we will not make common cause with you.” On Monday the 11th the
                    dinner was advertised in a local newspaper, and—sinister portent—immediately
                    under that advertisement was “another, informing the public that the names of
                    the gentlemen who should dine at the hotel on Thursday would be published, price
                    one halfpenny. This seemed a signal for mischief, but mischief was unknown in
                    Birmingham, and no one regarded it.” So wrote Miss Catherine Hutton in a letter
                    dated the following week. She adds that her brother Thomas told her on Tuesday
                    the 12th that “a riot was expected on Thursday,
                    but so little was I interested by the intelligence that it left no impression on
                    my mind. The word ‘riot,’ since so dreadful, contained no other idea than that
                    of verbal abuse.”
                The dinner took place. A mob assembled and broke the windows, hissing and
                    groaning, but the Liberal gentlemen did not apparently think much of this, and
                    several of them went and took tea at a friend’s house in town. This was
                    literally noted as occurring at five o’clock, and it happens that their
                    conversation has been recorded in a private letter, since privately printed. Dr.
                    Priestley, however, was not with them at dinner or at tea. He had been persuaded
                    by a wary friend to stay away. The lively, bright girl, Miss Mary R., who wrote
                    the most vivid of all the accounts which have come down to us, went that
                    afternoon to Fair Hill, and found Mrs. Priestley preparing to walk into
                    Birmingham. To the rumours of window?breaking, told her by her young friend, she
                    replied with characteristic decision, “Nonsense, my dear,” or words to that
                    effect. The two set out together and walked back into the town, the distance of
                    a mile, where they found the gentlemen still at
                    tea. They were all friends, and mostly relatives by blood or marriage—the older
                    Birmingham families forming a sort of local mercantile aristocracy, full of
                    culture and public spirit. After the ladies had returned each to their homes,
                    Miss Mary R. went to look at a new conservatory which her father had just built
                    for his daughters. It was quite empty, but the gardener had prepared the mould,
                    and had purchased a number of plants which the young people meant to set early
                    the next morning.
                The flowers were never planted. The conservatory remains as “the baseless fabric
                    of a vision.” When the twilight darkened, the young ladies stood upon their
                    father’s lawn watching the double glow where the Old and New Meeting Houses were
                    in flames. Then Mr. Samuel Ryland, whose daughter was engaged to marry Joseph
                    Priestley the younger, got “a chaise” and hurried off to Fair Hill. He had been
                    warned by “a very Liberal Churchman, Mr. Vale,” who had heard mischief intended,
                    and begged him to “take Dr. Priestley away, as he was fearful his life was in
                    danger.” Mr. Ryland found the Doctor, who had
                    not been into Birmingham at all, “playing at backgammon with his wife, and when
                    informed his meeting house was on fire could scarcely believe it, and refused to
                    leave home.” Probably Mrs. Priestley also said she would not go, abandoning her
                    pleasant, orderly rooms, her hundred and one simple treasures, her china, her
                    linen, her books, the house where her children had grown up. However, “he and
                    Mrs. Priestley were persuaded to get into the carriage” and leave the house to
                    his servants and a few young men who had arrived meanwhile with the intelligence
                    of the riot. These young men, members of the congregation, had begged hard to be
                    allowed to defend Fair Hill. But Dr. Priestley absolutely forbade them to strike
                    a blow. He told them that a minister of the gospel must not risk bloodshed even
                    in lawful defence of his worldly goods, and he passed out of the house, leaving
                    behind him his library, his costly and beautiful philosophical instruments, his
                    treasured manuscripts, the notes of five and twenty years of scientific
                    labour.
                When the chaise with Dr. and Mrs. Priestley had relied away, the servants
                    extinguished every fire, the blinds were drawn
                    down, and in the darkened rooms began that vigil by Mr. Hill which his one
                    surviving son, Mr. Frederick Hill, has lately recounted in such moving terms.
                    For half an hour the young man watched and waited; then came the tramp of the
                    mob. The rest is matter of oft?repeated history. The ringleaders procured a
                    light from the nearest public?house and set fire to the laboratory and the
                    library. Of all the property in that dwelling an official inventory was
                    afterwards compiled, a copy of which was made for Mr. Timmins, the well?known
                    local historian and antiquary, a hundred years later. The original document is a
                    folio book of sixty?five pages, in which the most minute details are given, and
                    the value of each entry given by sworn valuers, surveyors for the building,
                    auctioneers for the furniture, and booksellers for the books. All these are very
                    curious and interesting as records of the interior of a substantial house one
                    hundred years ago, and valuable as a register of the prices of household
                    furniture. It has been partially reproduced in Dr. Carrington Bolton’s
                    interesting volume of Priestley’s scientific correspondence, privately printed in New York. In addition to the
                    splendid apparatus given to the Doctor partly by Lord Shelburne, partly by
                    Wedgwood and other friends, are noted a large silver medallion of Sir Isaac
                    Newton, and another in Wedgwood ware, two “five?guinea notes” in pocket books, a
                    Magellan timepiece, three black Wedgwood inkstands, a large mahogany lathe,
                    sixty pounds’ worth of lenses, and other optical instruments, including a large
                    camera obscura. Of “chemical substances” there were six or seven hundred, liquid
                    and solid, of which no account can be given, many of them the results of
                    expensive processes.
                About three years later a similar inventory was taken of the apparatus of the
                    French chemist, Lavoisier, guillotined in May, 1794.
                Fair Hill remained a mere shell, of which small pictures were made and published.
                    Of the actual burning a strange record exists. An artist of the name of Exted, a
                    “pupil of Hogarth,” made an elaborate painting in oils, sketched upon the spot.
                    “This picture represents the mob, with the banner inscribed ‘Church and King,’
                    in the very act of 
                        destroy? ing
                        destroying
                     Dr. Priestley’s house; chairs, globes, bottles, apparatus, a wig,
                    slippers, window?frames, books and pamphlets, a telescope, a bed?post, lying on
                    the ground or falling from a window. The more sober part of the rioters, both in
                    the house and in the garden, in the most various attitudes, the drunken one
                    stretched out at length. Several of the faces are portraits; among them the
                    town?crier with his public bell, a demon who attended on the occasion to incite
                    the mob.” This description is from a private letter. It is my impression that
                    the secret history of the Birmingham Riots has never been unearthed, and now
                    never will be known. Political passion has subsided; Churchmen and Dissenters
                    have changed their lines of thought; the New Meeting House has become a Roman
                    Catholic chapel, and Dr. Priestley’s congregation meets in a fine building
                    called the Church of the Messiah, and a son of Sarah S. became the
                    much?respected Mayor and most prominent citizen of the metropolis of the
                    Midlands.
                Of the destruction of many other houses, far wealthier than that of Priestley’s,
                    sad stories remain, notably the ruin of William Hutton’s two dwellings; while Dr. Priestley’s journey to
                    London, his sojourn at Hackney, and final emigration to America are matters of
                    history. But, on examining the documents, some unpublished, others printed in
                    old?fashioned magazines, from whence they have never emerged, I am deeply
                    impressed with the struggle it cost him to cross the Atlantic, and the changed
                    life to which he submitted. The younger men of the congregation, including his
                    own sons, believed in the possibility of a successful settlement across the
                    ocean. But, as happened in the case of Winthrop, a hundred and sixty years
                    earlier, the hand of death lay heavy on the exiles. The first to go was Henry
                    Priestley, a delicate young man brought up for a learned profession. He flung
                    himself into a farmer’s life, caught ague, then fever, from exposure in the
                    unwonted climate, and died in 1795. His valiant mother survived him just nine
                    months. The New House, now known as the Priestley House, and kept up by
                    Government, was partly planned by her, the notable housewife who for thirty?four
                    years had spared her husband every practical care. She did not live to inhabit it. Priestley’s habitual submission
                    carried him over a time of deep depression, which he pathetically tries in his
                    letters to conceal. Over them, though some of them have been printed from a
                    collection at Warrington, I draw a veil. Under the deep self?control and reserve
                    of his Presbyterian nurture was hidden a soul sensitively alive to affection,
                    and an intellect instinct with genius. Among men he had one dear friend, with
                    whom he continued to correspond. The following letter, hitherto unpublished,
                    ends with sad, suppressed yearning. It reached its destination, travelling from
                    the backwoods of Pennsylvania to the Strand, and lies before me now:—
                “Northumberland, April 2, 1802.
                “To the Rev. W. Lindsey,
                “Essex Street, London.
                “DEAR FRIEND,—I have at length, with great satisfaction, received a box of books
                    from Mr. Johnson, though by no means all that I wrote for long ago. In it I was
                    disappointed not to find either Mr. Belsham’s ‘Lectures,’ or his (brother’s)
                    fifth and sixth volumes. But my son, being at
                    Philadelphia when the box arrived, purchased those books for me. The history,
                    being more immediately interesting, I read first, and also the ‘Answer to Mr.
                    Marsh,’ and I admire them as much as, from your account of them, I expected to
                    do. I am, however, astonished at the freedom with which he writes. Nothing of
                    the kind would have passed unnoticed here during Mr. Adams’ administration. I
                    long to see another volume, which I imagine will bring the history down to the
                    general peace. I see references to his history in quarto. Is this materially
                    different from that in octavo?
                “I have made some progress in reading Mr. Belsham’s ‘Lectures,’ and admire their
                    clearness and comprehensiveness. That any work of this kind should be inviting
                    to the generality of readers cannot be expected, especially as there is nothing
                    of controversy to stimulate. It will, however, I doubt not, be long a standard
                    work on the subject.
                “Please to call on Mr. Philips, and thank him in my name for the many curious and
                    Valuable articles which he has sent me in this parcel.
                
                “I sent Mr. Nicholson two articles for his Journal, with a P.S. to
                    one of them in a letter to you. Has he received them? I hope Mr. Morgan has
                    received the letter I wrote him. Dr. Woodhouse, Professor of Chemistry here, is
                    going to make a tour of part of Europe. I gave him a letter of introduction to
                    you, and sent after him, directed to you, one to Sir Joseph Banks, who, I hope,
                    will receive him with civility.
                “Warned by the impaired state of my health (though I am not without hopes of a
                    restoration) that what I do I must. do quickly, I have begun to print the
                    ‘Continuation of my Church History.’ We have printed two sheets, and I am
                    promised three in a week. Four volumes will complete the whole. As I have hardly
                    any other source of expense, I hope that, if Mr. Wilkinson continues his
                    allowance, I shall be able to finish this with little or no assistance, but if I
                    receive any it will be welcome. No person has been more liberal in his promises
                    to aid me in works of this kind than Mr. Russell, but his affairs have been in
                    such a state that he has not been able. I think to write to him on the subject. He shall have copies for all that he may
                    advance.
                “I have just received a very interesting letter from Mr. J. Stone, giving me an
                    account of the state of religion in France and Germany, where Unitarianism has
                    already gained great ground, and has been the means of putting a stop to the
                    spread of infidelity. He was intimate with Mr. de la Harpe, the tutor of the
                    Emperor Alexander of Russia, and from his letters I have formed great
                    expectations from him. He is the friend of liberty, and in this promises to be a
                    truly patriot prince. Mr. Stone urges me much to go to Paris. But any removal is
                    now out of the question. I must be thinking of my last, and I am thankful that I
                    see no great cause to be anxious about it. I have lived in good health to the
                    usual term of human life, and hope I have done some good in it, though I am
                    sensible I might have done more. I am particularly thankful that you have been
                    so long preserved to me and to the world. What could I have done without you?
                    and this in many respects. I can only wish that we may derive the same advantage
                    from our intercourse in another state, and the
                    nearer I approach to it the more I think of it. How dark and gloomy must be the
                    prospects of unbelievers in the same circumstances!
                “We have had an uncommonly mild winter, such as no person here remembers, and the
                    papers say that you have had a severe one, and that the clearness of provision
                    continues. On the whole, I think a situation in this country more truly eligible
                    than in any other country in the world. We have peace and plenty, and everything
                    in a state of unexampled improvement. I may add that this very place appears to
                    me to be on the whole more eligible than any other that I have seen or heard
                    of.
                “Yours and Mrs. Lindsey’s most affectionately,
                “J. PRIESTLEY.”
                Priestley survived his wife’s death eight years, and found a measure of restored
                    happiness in the children of his eldest son. No murmur ever crossed his lips. He
                    worked on to the very last, correcting proofs of his “Notes on Isaiah” two days
                    before he died, “and, having examined the Greek and Hebrew quotations, and
                    finding them right, he said he was satisfied we
                    should finish the work very well.” On the morning of his death, February 6,
                    1804, he dictated an alteration in a pamphlet; his son read it over to him, and
                    he said, “That is right, and I have now done.” He had previously offered
                    grateful thanks to the Almighty for giving him a painless death among his
                    children; and putting his hand before his face, so that those watching him could
                    not tell the exact moment, he passed away in deep and conscious communion with
                    his God.
            
            
            
                IN ROME WITH MRS. JAMESON.
                YOU have asked me to recall to you Rome as I first saw it, in the spring
                    of 1857. It is as if one tried to revive the beauty of a dead cyclamen, for the
                    old poetic charm of Rome is withered away. In all ages that city, which was the
                    centre of the civilized world, must needs have been subject to change and to
                    large destruction. Rome has been sacked and burned, overthrown and rebuilt, its
                    pagan palaces have half sunk beneath the soil, in the lapse of centuries the
                    Field of Mars became covered with the modern quarter, and a strange tangle of
                    associations was silently and unconsciously created, the disentangling of which
                    was a delight to the poet and the antiquary; but the total effect remained that
                    of a very old picture, harmonized and browned by time. That picture has been
                    cleaned, revarnished, and the lover of Rome
                    must dwell in his old impressions if he hopes to revive the past.
                In the spring of 1857 no railway came within many hours of the Eternal City. She
                    sat in isolated majesty upon the wild Campagna, and the traveller entered her
                    gates as Cæsar and Cicero, Leo and Pius, and kings and pilgrims from time
                    immemorial have approached, by travelling along the Aurelian Way. In 1818 six
                    English youths sent to colonize the desolate and half ruined English College,
                    similarly crossed the Campagna, and one of them, a famous man in later years,
                    tells us of the “great cupola, cutting like a huge peak into the clear winter
                    sky, increasing in size with every mile.” For indeed the rolling Campagna is
                    like the sea, across which you may see the snowy sails of a ship, herself
                    invisible. And that period of forty years had in 1857 made but little change. To
                    us also the dome appeared faintly upon the horizon; beautiful was the wealth of
                    flowers in the southern spring, the wayside bright and delicate with asphodel,
                    and spaced with the mile?stones of the famed Aurelian Way. The far mountains
                    were filmy in the distance, the classic
                    mountains which are the best guardians of ancient traditions, for man cannot
                    change their outline; and in Rome itself Mrs. Anna Jameson was waiting to
                    receive one young traveller, and she was perhaps the most wonderful cicerone in
                    the world, dearest, wittiest, most cultured of women, and though sixty years
                    old, retaining all the fire and enthusiasm of her youth. It is impossible to
                    give to another generation any adequate idea of many men and women whose
                    personality was greater than their achievement, or whose achievements were
                    practically those of the improvisatore.
                Mrs. Jameson was born in the year 1794 in Dublin. Her father, Brownell Murphy,
                    married an English wife; he was a well?known miniature painter, who came over to
                    England and became eventually Painter in Enamel to the young Princess Charlotte
                    of Wales in the year 1810. It is told of Mr. Murphy that he once took the
                    liberty of asking Her Majesty Queen Charlotte whether she recollected a famous
                    picture of Nell Gwynne, known to have once existed in the Windsor Gallery. The
                    Queen replied at once, that most assuredly since she had resided
                        at Windsor there had been no Nell Gwynne
                    there! At the sad death of Princess Charlotte, the hopes, fortunes, and
                    happiness of many to whom she had shown kindness failed, and the Murphys
                    suffered with the rest, but Anna Murphy was tenderly devoted to her parents, and
                    both before and after her own marriage she never ceased to be the most devoted
                    of daughters. Her life, with all its varying fortunes, has been well told by her
                    favourite niece, Gerardine, the wife of Robert Macpherson of Rome. It was
                    published by Longmans, and to it we must refer those who would fain know more of
                    one of the best and brightest women of the earlier years of the Victorian
                    era.
                Mrs. Jameson’s writing was like eloquent speech; she was an interpreter of art
                    and nature, she was a human Irish harp; to see her kindle into enthusiasm amidst
                    the gorgeous natural beauty and the antique memorials and the sacred Christian
                    relics of Italy was an experience not to be forgotten. There is not a cyprus
                    upon the Roman hills, or a sunny vine overhanging the southern gardens, or a
                    picture in those vast sombre galleries of foreign palaces, or a catacomb spread out dark under the martyr churches of
                    the City of the Seven Hills, which is not associated with some vivid flash of
                    her intellect and imagination, and with a dearer recollection of personal
                    kindness from the old to the young.
                Of the actual entrance into Rome it is strange that I can remember nothing. It
                    must have been after dark on a moonless night, and the voyage from Genoa and the
                    long hours in the open air behind the postillion of other days must have made me
                    fall unromantically asleep. But in the gray dawn of the next morning I awoke,
                    and woke to Rome. It was but little after six when I found some servant afoot to
                    let me out of the front door into the shadowed black and white street, the Via
                    Condotti. I was determined not to ask my way; to speak to a fellow?creature
                    would have destroyed the spell. I had been, for a girl educated in the Forties,
                    well?grounded in the classics, and I was back with Romulus and Remus in a
                    fantastic dream. I knew that what I wanted lay to the west, and I threaded my
                    way swiftly along the Corse. With a greater traveller I could have said, “From this point”—the Column of Antoninus—“all
                    reckoning was lost; a long, narrow street and a labyrinth of tortuous ways,
                    through which a glimpse of a church or palace front might be caught,
                    occasionally askew; the Farnese Palace, as completely Michelangelesque in brick
                    as the Moses is in marble,” and so on to his goal. But I was not an English
                    youth running for the English College; pagan was then my heart, and pagan all my
                    historic desire. Rain began to fall; if the skies had fallen it would have been
                    unheeded. I reached the foot of a flight of immense steps, knew them at a glance
                    by old engravings, and also the great buildings atop—swerved to the right and
                    round the corner of the gigantic edifice, and there—below me—there they were—the
                    three great pillars with the broken cornice, rising out of rough, unkempt,
                    hillocky ground, a waste of stone and grass, for the most part unexcavated,
                    untortured; the unswept Forum where Cicero had spoken, where Paul had passed,
                    where Goethe had stood amazed; and rising sharp from the soil that slender
                    shaft, by Byron named 
                        “The nameless pillar with the buried base.”
                     Silently I had come, silently I retraced
                    my steps, but the lapse of thirty?seven years has left that one unparalleled
                    moment a landmark in my life.
                And now began a period of such vivid intellectual happiness as can fall to the
                    lot of few; in Rome with Mrs. Jameson. She was visiting her niece Gerardine,
                    whose house was a centre for the English in Rome, and a room had been arranged
                    for me in the dwelling of a friend; so that I came into the midst of all that
                    was going on. The Macphersons then lived in a villa just on the outskirts of the
                    city, with a heavenly view towards the mountains. My first visit was to St.
                    Peter’s, whither I was taken with a sort of solemnity, Mrs. Jameson herself
                    raising the great leathern screen and watching me as the vast nave met my view.
                    So that of the Catholic and mediæval world my first vision was through the eyes
                    of Michel Angelo. She then took me to see Gibson. The famous sculptor was a
                    little, gentle old man with whom it seemed to me that the Greek gods had
                    literally come down to live in the Via della Fontanella. In 1821 Mrs. Jameson
                    had seen him at work on a beautiful group of Psyche borne by the Zephyrs; in 1847 she had found him in the self?same
                    studio, modelling the bas?relief of the Hours leading forth the Horses of the
                    Sun, and had felt that “there was something inexpressibly touching, and
                    elevating too, in the sense of progress without change; all appeared the same in
                    that modest, quiet little room, but round it extended lofty and ample ateliers,
                    crowded with models of works, already executed or in progress, and with workmen,
                    assistants, students, visitors.” And here, after the lapse of another ten years,
                    she brought her young English friend. Gibson told Mrs. Jameson that his first
                    commission in Rome was from “a tall young man” who said he had been “sent by
                    Canova.” It was the Duke of Devonshire who made a happy man that day! “Mars and
                    Cupid” are now at Chatsworth.
                In 1844, when Gibson visited England, the Queen sent for him and commanded a
                    statue of herself, intimating at the same time a desire that the “statue should
                    be a faithful portrait such as her children should recognize, and calculated for
                    a room in the palace, not for any public institution.” The young Queen of five
                    and twenty sat every day for ten days. Gibson was wont to say that he owed his start in life more to the praises
                    bestowed on his work by Mrs. Jameson in the pages of her “Diary of an Ennuyée”
                    than to the fact of the group of Psyche borne aloft by the Zephyrs having been
                    purchased by Sir George Beaumont. The Diary, her first work, was published after
                    her marriage in 1825, and her only remuneration was a guitar!
                From Gibson’s studio the entranced visitor naturally turned to that of his
                    favourite pupil, Miss Hosmer, who had come from Boston five years previously. Of
                    all her admirable work, “Puck” was, perhaps, the most appreciated by her public
                    and by me. The Little Man struck a Shakespearian note amidst the endless classic
                    beauties of Rome. Gibson had evidently in some previous existence been intimate
                    with Phidias, but Miss Hosmer was of a newer time, and at that youthful period
                    she herself resembled a charming boy with a curly crop, except that few boys
                    ever show such dogged determination to succeed. She went on from strength to
                    strength, and was then working at a reclining figure of the Cenci. Many happy
                    hours I spent in Miss Hosmer’s studio, and for the first time understood the sculptor’s art and how the human image
                    gradually formed itself in the wet clay and died in plaster, to resuscitate in
                    marble.
                To a dark, endless catacomb, I think it was Santa Agnese, Mrs. Jameson took me in
                    the company of Sir David Brewster; and his keen intellect played vividly on the
                    most diverse associations. He was quite an old man, but had lately entered into
                    his second marriage with extraordinary freshness of feeling. He had a private
                    hobby, a fine collection of engraved gems, and brought them out one evening for
                    inspection. In that cosmopolitan Rome the strangest side?lights fell upon
                    well?known figures.
                Another image which rises to memory is that of Dr. Auguste Braun, the most
                    learned of German archæologists. He lived in a house on the top of the Tarpeian
                    Rock, from the windows of which was seen a splendid view over the Forum, and
                    there he carried on a great controversy about the site of the Temple of Jupiter
                    Capitolinus, a question upon which Germans and Italians were bitterly opposed.
                    One party said the foundations existed under
                    the church of Ara Cœli, the other party assigned them to the opposite hill; but
                    as the two hills were extremely near together and densely covered with buildings
                    of all ages, it was indeed a very pretty quarrel, and one in which I took at the
                    time a youthful and quite fantastic interest. Little did the disputants foresee
                    that within thirteen years a new Italy would arise, and Rome be given up to a
                    generation of railway?makers and building speculators. Who now cares for that
                    poor old vanished temple? It is as extinct as the dispossessed Lion on the roof
                    of Northumberland House, whose tail pointed to so many quarters of the compass
                    that nobody could ever say which was which. Dr. Braun the archæologist died in
                    1860, and one is inclined to say that it was fortunate for him.
                The excavations of the soil of Rome at that epoch had been very partial, and a
                    sense of the mystery of the haunted ground enhanced its charm. They have since
                    been “Systematized,” and suggest an Examination in Ancient History. For
                    instance, in the Fifties the Coliseum was decorated with a rich flora. Delicate ferns and mosses and creeping greenery
                    flourished among the huge steps and corridors, and were said to be unique,
                    springing from the blood of the martyrs. Total ignorance of botany prevents my
                    putting forth this as other than a legendary statement; but nature had
                    wonderfully softened the horrors of the pagan amphitheatre; the floor was a soft
                    mat of grass, and in the centre stood a black mission cross, where some monk had
                    preached of grace and redemption. The cross is gone, and half of the vast area
                    is deeply dug, and reveals the subterranean passages which ministered to the
                    cruel show. He who now walks in the Coliseum by 
                        moonlight
                        moo nligh
                     would do well to walk warily, lest in some dark corner he slip through
                    the rails and plunge downwards into the dens of the wild beasts. If, on the
                    other hand, the traveller approaches the Coliseum at noon, his eyes will be
                    fatally attracted to the left of the great building, and to that hill?road, once
                    so picturesque, but now blocked by a huge depôt for the sale of olive?oil, the
                    Pears’ soap of Italy.
                That old Rome wherein Shelley was portrayed by Joseph Severn, where Wiseman came
                    to study and remain as Rector, where Wilkie
                    renewed his youth after long sickness, where Hawthorne imagined Donatello, has
                    for ever faded away.
                Of the overpowering ugliness of the great new buildings erected in the meadow
                    below the Castle of St. Angelo, and on that high site beyond the Baths of
                    Diocletian, once covered by lovely vineyards and gardens, what adequate
                    description can be given! Peabody’s Lodgings and Queen Anne’s Mansions,
                    half?finished and already old, dirty, and dilapidated—such is the vision that
                    meets the eye inside and outside the San Lorenzo gate. The financial troubles of
                    Italy have stopped the works, and it is a moot question whether what they meant
                    to do or what they half achieved is the more deplorable. One complete handsome
                    result has, however, been effected, the Via Nationale cuts through Rome like a
                    Parisian boulevard, it recalls the architecture of Florence, and should fairly
                    be praised as a beautiful street, but in the very nature of things Rome cannot
                    be effectually Haussmannized. The mementoes of the pagan past are too numerous
                    and too important to be disregarded, and the great churches and colleges
                    belonging to every nation in the civilized
                    world cannot be erased for the formation of new structures, though here and
                    there they stand out as huge blocks in the midst of clearings, and puzzle the
                    old tourist as to their identity. In Rome we all have a vested interest; to the
                    English College, the Scotch College, and the Irish College is now added a
                    beautiful new Canadian College with the Imperial right of sanctuary. The French
                    have St. Louis des Français, and French Sisters of more than one Order have
                    standing room in Rome. That far?famed English College, “where many a pilgrim,
                    gentle or simple, has knelt leaning on his trusty staff, cut in Needwood or the
                    New Forest,” and where among many other memorials of our dear land are the tombs
                    of Sir Thomes Dereham, of a Prior of Worcester and an Archbishop of York, is
                    standing evidence that the city of Rome guards other associations than those of
                    her own citizens. And putting aside those ecclesiastical treasures about which
                    men so widely differ, but of which it may be fairly said that all men of the
                    slightest culture regard them with interest, none can deny that the art
                    treasures of the Eternal City are the heritage of the world.
            
            
            
                MARY HOWITT.
                SITTING under the mulberry tree and looking over the old letters which
                    have been preciously laid aside from year to year, I come upon many memories
                    which may interest the younger world, and of which death and time have made it
                    possible to speak. Among these are certain written relics of Mary Howitt, whom I
                    well knew in the middle of her long career, and whose saintly death in Rome five
                    years ago, vividly recalled her sweet and gracious personality in the hearts of
                    her innumerable English friends, and especially of the surviving contemporaries
                    of her own children. Since then two thick volumes of memoirs have been published
                    by her daughter, and the changes of opinion undergone by Mary Howitt, and in a
                    lesser degree by her husband, are matter of public record. Together they lie in
                    the leafy Protestant cemetery of Rome; not far
                    from the heart of Shelley (Cor Cordium), and from where reposes one who bears
                    the sole epitaph of “Filius Goethe.” Although she had lived during her last
                    years as a devout Catholic, and passed as we believe “in Paradiso,” her tender
                    love clung faithfully to the husband of her youth, and special permission was
                    given that she should be reunited to him in death. On the white marble of the
                    beautiful tomb the English stranger in Rome reads the familiar words “William
                    and Mary Howitt.”
                When I first saw the home of the Howitts they had left that old house at Clapton
                    to which such tender reference is made in the autobiography. Claude Howitt had
                    been dead about four years, and the pathetic page of Mary Howitt’s writing, in
                    which she tells her sister of the death of her boy, lay buried in a private
                    letter. It can be illustrated by a reference to her daily habit of unflagging
                    work. For many years the Howitts had so arranged their life as to be wholly
                    dependent on their own literary labour. The opportunities of modern authorship
                    were then undeveloped, but William Howitt’s talent and steady industry, and his
                    wife’s genius and equally steadfast labour, met
                    every claim. It was at all times beautiful to see the delicate method, the
                    perfection with which Mrs. Howitt managed her household, her dress, her
                    persistent work with the pen. It was the result of the old Quaker training,
                    though she no longer wore the costume of a “Woman Friend,” and expressed a rare
                    high quality of character.
                I once had a youthful discussion with her as to how much writing could be done in
                    a day. She smiled, and fixed the limit, saying, “My dear, it is—such a number
                    of—pages of manuscript; it is practically impossible to overpass my average.”
                    And this explains the letter written after Claude’s death, which occurred in
                    March, 1844, and was the result of a sad accident at school caused by the
                    practical joke of a foolish boy. A month elapsed before his mother wrote to her
                    sister the letter which will be found on page fifteen of the second volume of
                    the memoirs. She begins, “Thy letter, my dearest sister (they always used
                    together the Quaker phraseology), was indeed like the voice of the truest and
                    sweetest affection. I have turned to it again and again, and I feel that, among the many blessings which I enjoy—and I
                    enjoy a great many—is that of having a sister like thee.” She then speaks at
                    great length and with a wonderful chastened peace about Claude, a letter full of
                    resigned prayer; and ends thus:—
                “To?morrow I intend again to commence my regular avocation. Poor dear Claude! At
                    this very moment I see the unfinished translation lying before me which was
                    broken off by his death. Alas! I could have shed burning tears over this. How
                    often did he beg and pray of me to put aside my translation just for that one
                    day, that I might sit by him and talk or read to him? I, never thinking how near
                    his end was—(the boy had been a tenderly nursed invalid for a year, and while,
                    on the one hand, the numerous doctors seemed to have hoped against hope, the
                    mother’s labour could not stop)—said, ‘Oh, no! I must go on yet a
                    page or two.’ How little did I think that in a short time I should have leisure
                    enough and to spare! Oh, Anna! of all the agonizing feelings which I know, none
                    is so bitter as that longing for the dead. Just one day, one hour of their
                    lives, that one might pour out the whole soul
                    of one’s inextinguishable love before them, and let them feel how dear,
                    inexpressibly dear, they are. My very heart at times dies within me from this
                    deep, agonizing longing. But, dearest, when we have angels in heaven, does not
                    death seem robbed of its terrors?
                “I wonder how it is with families in heaven? for there must be different degrees
                    of worthiness in the different members. Some must have lower places than others.
                    I would be content to sit on the lowest footstool might I only be permitted to
                    behold the glory and the bliss of my beloved ones, and to make compensation to
                    them in some way for my shortcomings on earth.”
                It is well worth while to extract this wonderfully touching and humble letter
                    from the mass of printed matter in which it lies embedded. It is a revelation of
                    the writer’s spiritual life.
                In the next year, 1845, the Howitts went to Hastings, and formed a close intimacy
                    with a family with which my parents and I were also shortly to be tenderly and
                    gratefully associated: that of Mr. Benjamin Smith, the member for Norwich. A
                    great domestic affliction caused us to take up
                    our residence in Hastings—where, indeed, we were Mr. Smith’s tenants—and until
                    July, 1850, we were almost as one family, sheltered under the magnificent rock
                    of the Castle Hill. Hastings was not then what it is now; the old town was
                    widely separated from St. Leonards, and the lanes leading up to Ore Church were
                    lanes of deep country seclusion. It was here, in 1846?7, that I first heard of
                    the Howitts as a family. Mrs. Howitt’s tales and poems had, of course, been
                    familiar to me from early childhood, more especially the exquisite “Sketches
                    from Natural History,” containing that ballad beginning “Will you walk into my
                    parlour, said the Spider to the Fly,” which has become so much a classic phrase
                    that I have seen it quoted in prose in a political leader, without any reference
                    to the authoress, or to the fact that the quotation formed part of a verse.
                If on the one hand we were all full of the distinguished authoress, and her
                    charming eldest daughter Anna Mary, on the other hand here is Mrs. Howitt’s
                    allusion to the Leigh Smiths, which will explain a reference in one of her future letters to me. She describes the group of
                    five, of whom the eldest was then eighteen, and the youngest twelve; speaks of
                    their carriages and horses, and outdoor life, and of how “Every year their
                    father takes them a journey. He has a large carriage built like an omnibus, in
                    which they and their servants can travel and in it, with four horses, they make
                    long journeys. This year they were in Ireland,¹ and next year I expect they will go into Italy. Their father dotes
                    on them. They take with them books and sketching materials; and they have every
                    advantage which can be obtained them, whether at home or abroad. Such were and
                    are our friends the Leigh Smiths, and thou canst imagine how much pleasure we
                    were likely to derive from such a family.”
                The Howitts presently left Clapton, and settled near the Regent’s Park, and here
                    it was that I first saw them, being taken to the house by Miss Leigh Smith—the
                    Barbara of the letters. A vivid memory remains to me of an ¹ In Connemara, where
                        from a mountain?top it was jestingly said that they surveyed their father’s
                        Irish land through a telescope; the country being impassable and
                        impossible. evening party, a sort of
                    eminent gathering of art and literature, and of Mary Howitt seated in a corner
                    of the room, her two younger children at her knee. She was then about fifty, and
                    in the very zenith of her life and literary fame. Tennyson and Mrs. Gaskell,
                    Talfourd and Joanna Baillie, Hans Christian Andersen and the Pre?Raphaelite
                    Brethren, such are the first half?dozen names which suggest themselves to me in
                    connection with the circle of the Howitts’ lives in that early time.
                In May, 1851, came a never?to?be?forgotten day at Cambridge, when “Mr. Smith, of
                    Jesus” (Leigh Smith, the Arctic Explorer), welcomed his father, his sisters, and
                    their friends, including the two Pulskys, Professor Kinkel, and a good number of
                    bearded and moustachioed Hungarian exiles to the old University. Beards and
                    moustaches were quite uncommon in 1851. We all started at seven in the morning
                    from the Shoreditch station, and got back at eight in the evening, after a
                    splendid banquet offered by the father of Mr. Smith, of Jesus; and after forty
                    years that brilliant day is fresh in the memory of one grateful survivor. Mrs.
                    Howitt tells the story at length in her bright
                    language, where he who runs may read.
                The next home of the Howitt family was at the Hermitage, on the West Hill at
                    Highgate; the premises consisted of a small three?storeyed house and a lesser
                    tenement—the Hermitage proper. In this extraordinary appendage, with an upper
                    chamber reached by an outside staircase, the whole thatched and buried in an
                    exuberant growth of ancient ivy, poets and painters had their natural home. I
                    find in an old book some verses which describe the strange room wherein once
                    Dante Gabriel Rossetti had painted, and where Anna Mary Howitt now covered her
                    canvas with some of the most delicate, beautiful drawings ever done by a woman’s
                    hand.
                She became a pupil of Kaulbach, and recorded her experiences in a book which was
                    warmly welcomed and has been lately reprinted. It was entitled “The Art Student
                    in Munich.” Her companion during that student year was Jane Benham Hay, whose
                    pictures were admitted to the line on the wall of the Royal Academy. The career
                    of this admirable artist suffered eclipse, or she would now be recognized as
                        a worthy predecessor of Lady Butler. She
                    had a devoted and honourable friend in the late Mr. Edward Pigott. Her life
                    passed in Italy, and I do not know if she be yet living to read this short
                    record of her early triumphs.
                In the second volume of the autobiography, at page 108, will be found an
                    engraving of the Hermitage, with William and Mary Howitt in the foreground. I
                    think, however, that it is of the house and not of the appendage, though the one
                    is apparently as heavy with ivy as the other.
                The hand of the spoiler was soon to be laid on the delightful Hermitage. The
                    American traveller who may care to travel up Highgate Hill in search of poets
                    and painters will find it no more, and the Howitts moved up to a house with a
                    large garden just opposite to Holly Lodge, with whose kind mistress they enjoyed
                    a long intimacy.
                In 1855 “Anna Mary and Barbara” go off to Hastings, and get lodged in Clive Vale
                    Farm, the place where Holman Hunt had painted his famous picture of the sheep
                    upon the downs. He had made a great mess with his oils upon a certain table, which gave pleasure to the artists who
                    were following in his footsteps!
                The first letter which I find I have preserved of Mary Howitt’s is dated from
                    this residence, on the West Hill, where they remained many years. It is of
                    December, 1858, and is addressed to my mother, at a moment when I was lying in
                    imminent danger of death. It is too personal for quotation, and I pass on to
                    Good Friday of the year 1865, when Mrs. Howitt writes from West Hill Lodge about
                    a Sussex Guide of mine which she had in her possession. She is about to go to
                    Switzerland, but “that is only perhaps.” The note ends thus:—“How
                    the budding leaves and all the amenity of this lovely springtime recall Scalands
                    and those pleasant woods to my mind.” She refers to a time which really gave me
                    my last living memory of dear Mary Howitt, though our intimacy may truly be said
                    to have lasted unbroken to the weeks immediately preceding her death, five and
                    twenty years afterwards. I shall ever remain grateful for those spring weeks of
                    1864, when William and Mary Howitt were living at Scalands Cottage, the English
                    home of Miss Leigh Smith, who had become Madame
                    Bodichon. It was in the April of that year, and very shortly after the death in
                    New Zealand of poor Charlton Howitt, whom I had known so well as a young boy,
                    and of my own familiar friend Adelaide Procter, who had died on Candlemas Day,
                    that I met Mrs. Howitt on the platform of the Robertsbridge station. I was going
                    to a kind friend at an old farmhouse known as Brown’s, and the Howitts were at
                    Scalands, of which she writes:—“Barbara has built her cottage upon the plan of
                    the old Sussex houses, in a style which must have prevailed at the time of the
                    Conquest. It is very quaint, and very comfortable at the same time.” And she
                    gives lovely pictures in her letters of those “purple woods of Sussex,” then
                    blue with the wild hyacinth, in all the inexpressible tender beauty of the
                    spring. It was there that I was privileged to enjoy my last conversations with
                    Mary Howitt. I was on the very eve of submitting to the Catholic Church, though
                    I feel sure that I said nothing of it to her; and she at that time was deeply
                    impressed with Spiritualism, and her whole nature 
                        quiver? ing
                        quivering
                     with grief at Charlton’s death. The young man of twenty?five had been
                    drowned in a New Zealand lake. His knotted blanket, with its home letters and
                    the scant baggage of a young surveying engineer, had been washed ashore; but of
                    the manner and moment of his perishing there was no earthly record, nor was his
                    body ever washed ashore. I well remember Mrs. Howitt’s unwonted pallor as she
                    spoke of him to me, and that for the first and only time I felt her strong
                    nature to be shaken from its perfect equilibrium. She believed she had
                    communications from Charlton, and said so to me with the utmost plainness, and
                    many were the conversations we had together.
                It was in the spring of 1856 that, as she herself tells, she and her husband
                    first paid attention to the phenomena of spiritualism. At a séance at Professor de Morgan’s she “was much
                    astonished and affected by communications purporting to come from my dear son
                    Claude.” Just as at the later epoch she asserted that she had been told of the
                    manner in which Charlton went down, unwitnessed, in the waters of the New
                    Zealand lake. For certainly more than ten years
                    the mind of both the husband and the wife were extraordinarily impressed by the
                    extraordinary meetings which took place in every part of London. Those were days
                    when Mr. Hume was credibly asserted (I believe, by the Master of Lindsay) to
                    have floated out of one window and through another of a flat in Victoria Street
                    upon the sixth floor; when, as Mrs. S.C. Hall described to me, a band of musical
                    instruments flew madly about her room, to the imminent danger of her mirrors;
                    and Mr. Hall told me that he had seen Hume stretched to the abnormal length of
                    seven feet upon the floor, and afterwards contract to his natural size. It was
                    impossible then, it is equally impossible now, to decide what part in these
                    things was played by imposture and what by occult agencies, with which Catholics
                    are forbidden to tamper, but do not deny. In her later years Mrs. Howitt shrank
                    from the subject, and her daughter has touched upon it lightly. She herself,
                    however, alludes to it in the first of the two letters which I shall now give.
                    The first sentence I believe to refer to the granting of a pension on the Civil
                    List to William Howitt. After his death, in
                    1879, Lord Beaconsfield granted a similar pension to Mary Howitt.
                “Egerton House, Beckenham,
                “July 13th (’65).
                “DEAREST BESSIE,—Thank you for your loving little note of congratulation and
                    sympathy. Everybody seems pleased with what has been done; though it is but
                    small, still it is a recognition, and in itself a benefit.
                “I am here only for a few days on our way to join Maggie in France, where she has
                    been since April, whilst we have been ruralizing among the pleasant
                    Cotswolds.
                “I am afraid I shall not be able to see you whilst in town, as I have now only
                    to?morrow remaining; still, I shall try to call on dear Barbara, as I must be in
                    her neighbourhood, and by some good chance you may be there. If I should not see
                    her, will you take charge of my dear love to her? I hear that she is bright and
                    beautiful as usual. Can she be otherwise? Dear Barbara! she is one of my grand
                    and lovely women.
                “Annie and I have been reading the Lamp and other Catholic books in
                    Gloucestershire, as we were located with
                    Catholics. We found much mental and spiritual food, which was very accordant
                    with our tastes and feelings. It was a pleasure also to find your name amongst
                    the writers. We are half Catholics, our spiritualism makes us so, though you
                    perhaps will not admit it.
                “Give my kind regards to your mother, and with much love to yourself,
                “I remain, dearest Bessie,
                “Your true old friend,
                “MARY HOWITT.”
                This was her last English letter, and indeed, it is very sad to me now to
                    remember that I never saw her again. My marriage caused me to live much in
                    France, and on their side the Howitts left England, and went to live in Italy
                    and in Tyrol. Letters must have passed, and messages through our many mutual
                    friends. I never assuredly forgot the happy intercourse of former years, nor
                    they a kindly interest in the vicissitudes of my lot. But the war of 1870 swept
                    away all my correspondence of the immediately preceding years, and I was shortly absorbed in responsibilities which
                    left me scant leisure for anything beyond the duties of every hour. At last when
                    many days, and many deaths, and the slow blossoming of time had entirely changed
                    my life, I received the following letter from Mary Howitt, then eighty years of
                    age. It is dated from Tyrol, and from her own house of Mariensruhe (“Mary’s
                    Rest”):—
                “Mariensruhe, Obernais,
                “Meran, March 17, 1884.
                “MY DEAR BESSIE,—I write to you, as I used to address you, passing over but not
                    forgetting all that has happened since we knew each other personally, because I
                    am willing to believe that you, as I know to be the case with myself, are very
                    much the same as regards an old friend as in the old days; therefore I address
                    you familiarly as I did then.
                “From time to time tidings of you have reached us, and the impulse has been, both
                    with Margaret and myself, that a salutation of love should pass from us to you,
                    and that we should seek for tidings about you and your children; in short, that
                    the friendship which was alive formerly should
                    not be allowed to die. Therefore, I now write, and I feel sure that you will
                    give us in return what we ask from you in love, news of yourself and your
                    children. Tell us all about them like a fond mother—what are their ages, what
                    are their names, and what is the direction of their minds—which is the poet and
                    which is the philosopher, for I believe there are two of them—and what are their
                    tastes and especial talents. In short, let it be a loving mother’s letter to an
                    aunt and grandmother, to whom they are strangers, but who loved their mother of
                    old. Nor is that the only subject on which you would find us sympathetic. You
                    are a Catholic, one of the great flock of Christ, and your heart and your
                    intellect have found nourishment and life in the loving and in the sublime
                    teaching of the Church—all that you aspired after and hungered and thirsted for
                    in the most exalted dreams of your young poetical imagination has been given to
                    you there. I do not think it was any surprise to us to learn that you had joined
                    that great fellowship of saints and martyrs, for you and Adelaide Procter were
                    kindred in so many ways.
                
                “Perhaps you know that Margaret, the little girl to whom your mother was so kind,
                    and who was, from her childhood upwards, a seeker of true discipleship, found
                    from deep thought and constant, earnest prayer during our life in Rome, that
                    nowhere was it to be found except in the Church of St. Peter. But it was not in
                    Rome that she entered the Church, but in Meran, the second year after our
                    leaving Rome; and then truly did she understand what all the long, long years of
                    study had led her to—for in spirit she had been a Catholic almost from her
                    youth.
                “Nor was the blessing alone confined to her, for the dear Lord in His mercy
                    opened my mind also to the same grand imperishable truth, and I too was received
                    into the Catholic Church, and that by baptism; I, having been born a Friend. And
                    after all my later seeking for the Truth and for peace with God, which I did not
                    find with any of the sects, I was, two years ago this coming Whitsuntide,
                    baptized, as I have said, into the Church. I thank the blessed Lord for so great
                    a mercy. But it is not generally known in England, and as my dear husband was known to be adverse to the Church of
                    Rome—though, during the latter years of his life his best and most valued
                    friends were of the Faith, still his outward profession was Protestant—I am not
                    desirous of making my own faith more public than needful.
                “I have spoken, dear Bessie, of our best and dearest Roman friends being
                    Catholic. They lived at that time (and still own) in the beautiful villa of
                    Alimontana, just by those remarkable historical churches of St. Gregory and St.
                    John and Paul, with the Fountain of Egeria and the walks in which St. Philip
                    Neri discoursed with his disciples on the things of God, in their grounds. Of
                    course you know the place. But I mention it particularly, because they were so
                    proud of and so pleased with your beautiful poems on that locality and others,
                    that they bought the whole set of Longfellow’s volumes on the ‘Poetry of Places’
                    that they might possess yours, and there it was that we saw them first.
                “Now this is a long letter, dear Bessie, but I hope it will not be uninteresting
                    to you; and, with the kindest and best wishes
                    for you and yours, and love from us both,
                “I remain,
                “Your faithful and affectionate old friend,
                “MARY HOWITT.”
                Such was the long and lovely letter in which she told me of her reception into
                    the Fold. I trust I may be forgiven for having given it in its entirety, in
                    spite of its references to myself and my forgotten verses. One other long letter
                    I received from the same dear and venerated hand; it was written about three
                    months before her death, and being dated from Meran, spoke of her approaching
                    journey to Rome for the Jubilee, where she greatly wished me to join her. I was
                    unable to go at Christmas, but fully purposed to do so at Easter, and thus see
                    her once more; for nothing in the letter indicated feebleness, or warned me of
                    an approaching end,
                But it was not to be. On January the 10th, 1888, Mary Howitt, the first of the
                    English pilgrims, was led up to Leo the Thirteenth on the occasion of his
                    Jubilee. Mr. Clifford presented her, and the Duke of Norfolk brought her
                        away. The Pope laid his right hand upon her
                    aged head, and blessed her, telling her he would meet her again “in Paradiso.”
                    On the 30th of January she passed away in her sleep. When I came to Rome in
                    October, 1889, that Holy City of the most sacred memories of my life contained
                    also the grave of Mary Howitt.
            
            
            
                LADY GEORGIANA FULLERTON.
                THAT the life of an eminent Englishwoman should have been written by a
                    Frenchwoman, is in itself a point of interest; but especially so when the
                    Englishwoman was Lady Georgiana Fullerton, sister to Lord Granville, and her
                    biographer Madame Augustus Craven, whose maiden name was Pauline de la
                    Ferronnays, and whose first work, “Le Récit d’une Sœur,” passed though forty
                    editions.
                Lady Georgiana died ten years ago, and in the wide circle which she frequented, a
                    society chiefly knit together by incessant charitable work, the loss of her
                    familiar figure caused a great blank. She was tall and largely built, her face
                    was plain, but full of bright intelligence and gentle humour, naturally a merry
                    face; she always dressed in black, wearing a shawl across her shoulders, and no
                    gloves. She said that gloves cost too much money, and that she had much rather give the half?crown to the poor.
                    Having had many occasions of speaking with her, I would describe the impression
                    she made on her contemporaries as so marked that in entering even a crowded room
                    Lady Georgiana would have been one of the first people to be noticed, from her
                    majestic figure and the plain severity of her dress.
                She was very nobly born. Her father, Lord Granville, served his country for a
                    long series of years as Ambassador to France. Her mother, an excellent,
                    conscientious woman, was daughter to that beautiful Duchess of Devonshire, of
                    whom so many anecdotes survive, and whose life?size portrait by Gainsborough
                    disappeared so mysteriously some years ago. Sir Joshua Reynolds also repeatedly
                    painted the Duchess, the best known portrait being the one wherein she is
                    playing with her child. It was after this lovely grandmother that the little
                    girl was named Georgiana. She had an elder sister, Susan, and the two were
                    carefully and even severely educated by a good governess, against whose
                    influence Georgiana at one time rebelled, but who became, when she grew up, her
                    dear and intimate friend. They lived in the
                    splendid house allotted to the British Embassy in Paris, entered by a vast court
                    from the Rue du Faubourg St. Honoré, and sheltered at the back by a large shady
                    garden. Most tourists know the great gates in the high wall surmounted by the
                    arms of England—the Lion and the Unicorn, no longer “fighting for the crown,”
                    and speaking of home to all British residents in the capital of France. Two
                    little girls and three little boys then formed the English family at the
                    Embassy.
                When the Ladies Susan and Georgiana Leveson Gower grew up, they were taken by
                    their mother, Lady Granville, into the great world of fashion which then
                    surrounded the French court, and to the famous Almack’s, in London, and they
                    both married early. Lady Susan became the wife of Earl Rivers, and Lady
                    Georgiana, after some little opposition, was allowed to marry the man she
                    preferred, an untitled gentleman, Captain Fullerton. Her father was afraid that
                    there was not enough money to enable his daughter to live as she had been
                    brought up, and, on the other hand, the parents of the bridegroom were alarmed
                    at his marrying a young lady whose father,
                    mother, uncles, aunts and cousins, all belonged to the greatest nobility of
                    England. The obstacles, were, however, smoothed away by the active kindness of
                    the Duke of Devonshire, who was tenderly attached to his niece. Very pretty and
                    charming are her letters to him; she was, indeed, an “old?fashioned girl,” and
                    sent quaint, modest messages through him to the man of her heart. Finally,
                    Captain Fullerton left the army on half pay, a post was found for him at the
                    Embassy in Paris, and the young couple after their marriage lived with Lord and
                    Lady Granville in the great old house where Lady Georgiana had passed her
                    childhood and youth. She was one?and?twenty when her son was born—her only son,
                    her only child.
                The next ten years of Lady Georgiana’s life passed in the usual employment of her
                    rank and state in life. She notices, in her letters to her old governess and to
                    her sister Susan, all the little growths and changes in her boy’s childhood; how
                    he learnt to read, and how she has dressed him up for a child’s costume?ball at
                    the French court. She writes at great length about his religious education and his Sunday toys; and then
                    there came a sad time when the little man was very ill, his brain too excitable,
                    said the doctors, and a threat was made of stopping his education. But he
                    recovered, and the grievous alarms of the parents were laid to rest.
                The letters presently reach the beginning of Lady Georgiana’s career as an
                    authoress, but she has left no record in her correspondence of the mental
                    travail she must have undergone before writing “Ellen Middleton,” a book in
                    which she tried to grapple with the deepest questions of conscience. She sent
                    the manuscript to Mr. Henry Greville and to Lord Brougham, the latter being then
                    at the zenith of his fame; and we have their letters and comments. Lord Brougham
                    greatly admires the novel, but objects to its High Church tendencies, for Lady
                    Georgiana had become a strong High Churchwoman. Henry Greville praises and
                    criticizes, and both men give it a singularly respectful attention. It was
                    published, and straightway greeted with a burst of applause, and “Grantley
                    Manor,” her second book, very soon revived the same chorus of delighted
                    admiration. The most unlikely people —Harriet
                    Martineau and the aged Maria Edgeworth—wrote of them as if they were ardent
                    young novel readers. Miss Martineau says she made her eyes red with crying! Mr.
                    Gladstone, then the youthful hope of the High Church and Tory Party, wrote an
                    elaborate review; the best minds in England on all sides agreed in reading and
                    delighting in these two books, full of theology and ardent old?fashioned
                    romance.
                But ere the echoes had died away, Lady Georgiana Fullerton had followed her
                    husband and her revered friend, John Henry Newman, into the Roman Catholic
                    Church. It is pleasant to learn that this momentous step in no way broke up her
                    tender filial ties, nor her relations with her beloved sister and her nieces.
                    Lady Georgiana remained the bright, charming wife and mother; and young
                    Granville Fullerton went creditably through the years of education, and finally
                    entered the army. His health had occasionally aroused anxiety, but had not
                    debarred his preparation for the military career.
                When the first alarm of the Crimean War was sounded, it became necessary for the
                    parents to face the dangers of active service for their son. Not since Waterloo had there been a real shock of
                    arms in Europe, and now the best blood of England, in all ranks, was summoned to
                    that awful contest so disastrous in its earlier stages to the British troops,
                    and the Fullertons had to resign themselves to part with their son. Strange,
                    pathetic anxiety, not destined to be borne with lingering pain—fear
                    unrealized, anguish of waiting strangely changed into quite another doom. His
                    mother was prepared to send him forth to his professional duty, in what she
                    recognized as England’s cause. She would have watched for bulletins in alternate
                    agonies of fear and hope; had her boy been wounded, she would have hurried off
                    to Scutari; had he even been shot down in the trenches, he would have shared,
                    with ah! so many others, the honours of soldier’s grave; and she would have been
                    one of the many, many mothers who rued the name Sebastopol. But none of these
                    things were to be. At the last moment medical advice forbade the young fellow to
                    join the active army. Bitterly disappointed, he resigned himself to remain at
                    home, and going to visit his uncle, Lord Rivers, at Rushmore, in
                        Hampshire—met there his death! Met it by a
                    most sudden, sad accident, which, as it is not detailed in the book from which
                    we have been quoting, so neither will we detail it here. He was alone when the
                    summons came.
                We have been told by a private friend that when Mr. Fullerton received the letter
                    containing this terrible news, he did not at first know how to tell such a thing
                    to the wife of his youth, the beloved companion of his middle age, and that he
                    tenderly lured her into the open church where she was wont to pray, and there,
                    as she knelt peacefully before the altar, he found words in which to make her
                    understand that her one child was dead.
                Of this time of anguish Lady Georgiana Fullerton in after years never spoke or
                    wrote. Only in one note to a favourite niece, who had been as a sister to the
                    lost son, is there any mention of him; a note written just a year after his
                    death. With all the force of a powerful nature she submitted; and to us, who
                    knew her in later years, there seemed no darkness in her kindly smile, no moment
                    of flagging in her tireless charity.
                
                But shortly after her child’s death she took a vow which may seem singular to
                    many of my readers—a vow of poverty, which, though she survived for thirty years
                    and mixed freely with friends and relatives, and was, as was seen by all, a most
                    beloved mistress of a household, she never broke. She engaged never to buy or
                    possess anything which was not absolutely necessary in the way of her ordinary
                    duties. Gloves went first; “the half crown for the poor” meant, by the end of
                    the year, the annual payment needed for some orphan child. How often were seen
                    the kind, useful hands laid for the moment on that comfortable black shawl, when
                    she stood amidst a group of other ladies at some meeting for the poor. In her
                    younger days she must inevitably have been accustomed to the finest dresses ever
                    made or worn, living, as she did, in the house of an ambassador of the first
                    rank. She now never wore any costume but the black dress and shawl and plain
                    cap, which might have suggested austerity but for the bright, merry eyes, which
                    were also penetrating and spiritual, full of mingled expressions. Who that has
                    read the “Récit d’une Sœur” but remembers the 
                        sen? tence
                        sentence
                     of final resignation, “Je pleure mon Albert gaiement”? There was this
                    touch of gaiety in Lady Georgiana’s eyes, infinitely touching to those who knew
                    the agony she had passed through.
                She did not lay down her pen, though she seems to have hesitated as to whether it
                    was right to give hours a day to the writing of romances. She drew up a curious
                    written argument in two columns, in which she says that she could earn so much
                    more money for the poor in this way than in any other, that she thought she
                    ought to continue; and most lovely were some of the stories she produced.
                    “Constance Sherwood,” an historical romance of the time of Elizabeth, is perhaps
                    the best. “Too Strange not to be True” is a striking story, based on the legend
                    of the survival of the Czarowitch, son of Peter the Great. Another is “A Will
                    and a Way,” the subtle story of a young woman constrained in the French
                    Revolution to marry a rough suitor who saves her father’s life. She redeems the
                    situation, changing her husband’s half savage nature and moulding him afresh.
                    Lady Georgiana continued to the last just as
                    capable of writing an interesting love story as when she made Miss Martineau
                    cry.
                Of her manifold charities one knows not how to speak. She was the kindest and the
                    most industrious of women. The charge of orphans, sick people, and schools was a
                    daily matter of course to her, as to many another; but in touching ever so
                    slightly upon her sphere of activity, one became aware of the odds and ends
                    which were, so to speak, stuffed into the crevices from year’s end to year’s
                    end. The village library, of which, when she was called away to another part of
                    England, the covers were dropping off (happy books we loved so much, for ever
                    finding new treasures); the old servants pensioned; the five shillings slipped
                    into a little friend’s hand to buy a fan at a bazaar; the given book; the old
                    priest’s sister still living on the remains of her bounty; the bringing of the
                    Grey Sisters over from France (this last a serious heavy responsibility), and
                    establishing them in Westminster;—such are a few of the things which might be
                    multiplied indefinitely by the memories of others.
                
                And so, year by year, Lady Georgiana Fullerton’s life went on, until the time
                    came when she was attacked by a painful disease, and the black gown hung in long
                    thin folds on a wasted figure, which recalled some early Italian picture in the
                    severe grace of old age. On her deathbed she asked that the curtain covering her
                    son’s portrait should be withdrawn, saying that she had the courage to look at
                    it now. Another time, when Father Gallwey was reading the Scriptures to her, he
                    saw her eyes fill at an allusion to the death of a child; an involuntary
                    revelation of the pain silently endured for thirty years. Please God they are
                    now together, the mother and the son; and of her it may most emphatically be
                    said: “Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord!”
            
            
            
                AN OLD WORLD PRINCE.
                AIX?LES?BAINS is visited every year by some twenty thousand people, who
                    pour into the little Savoyard town the newest fashions, the latest novels, and
                    the gossip of every country on earth. And day by day a steamer crosses the lake,
                    and takes all the more enterprising people to Hautecombe, the ancient abbey
                    where are buried the Dukes of Savoy; and the tourists return in the sunset
                    across the water with a confused vision of tombs and inscriptions in the church,
                    and of two bed?rooms in the adjacent building, furnished with extraordinarily
                    plain simplicity; one being that of Marie Christine, a princess of the House of
                    Naples, and the other that of her husband, Charles Felix, last Duke and King of
                    the older branch of the House of Savoy.
                Until two years ago the writer had never heard of him, and feels tolerably sure
                    that to the reader of this page Charles Felix is equally unknown. A more completely obliterated life it were hard to
                    imagine, for he died childless in 1831, was succeeded by his far?away cousin,
                    Carlo Alberto de Carignan, and all the principles, aims, and efforts of his own
                    strenuous life were swept away as if they had never been. The cradle of his
                    race, and the very core of his ancient dukedom, the town of Chambèry, is a
                    French préfêture. Hautecombe, though
                    technically Italian, is only so by an amiable legal fiction, and his distant
                    relatives, the King and Queen of Italy, now share Rome with the Vatican. And yet
                    somewhere lives Charles Felix; and wherever dwells that blessed soul, it is
                    impossible to conceive of it as having ceased to pray and labour for Savoy.
                I will try to convey the impression of his life, as recounted in a volume written
                    and sold at Hautecombe, in the hope that someone will send for the book, which
                    only costs three francs, and is a very precious record of a fair and unusual
                    type of human character.
                The House of Savoy dates from Humbert Whitehands, a contemporary of Edward the
                    Confessor; and for centuries its members made treaties and intermarried with the
                    House of France. Not merely were they known as
                    pious people, but as remarkably holy people—five of them were in one age or
                    another canonized by Rome; and on one occasion Pope Gregory the Sixteenth is
                    reported to have exclaimed, “What! another beatification in the
                    House of Savoy!” So that in judging the character of Charles Felix, this
                    hereditary strain of devotion has to be taken into account. It limited his point
                    of view, and was partly the secret of his great personal sanctity. It bound
                    every part of his nature like a fine iron wire, and caused him to absolutely
                    ignore all those wide?spreading and inevitable changes which were rooted in
                    theories he neither shared nor understood. Stupid, Charles Felix was not: he
                    possessed a quick insight and a most tender heart. One feels a vain regret in
                    realizing the apparently useless struggle against an advancing tide, which he
                    carried on from youth to age. Living, he stood like a half?submerged rock; dead,
                    the waters swept over his tomb. He was but the eleventh child of a family of
                    twelve; a mere little princeling, with no apparent chance of ever coming to any
                    special honour, though his father was Victor
                    Amedeo, King of Savoy, and his mother a Spanish princess of the Bourbon line.
                    She lost a favourite brother by small?pox just before the birth of Charles
                    Felix, and devoted herself with special tenderness to this little boy. After his
                    birth came one more infant brother, so that by the time that Louis the Sixteenth
                    had succeeded his grandfather on the throne of France, Savoy had already three
                    little princes getting their education in Turin, and a much older Crown Prince
                    of twenty. One baby boy had died and also two small princesses, but there still
                    remained nine children who were mostly destined as usual to marry to France.
                    Strange to say, one sister, wedded to the Comte de Provence, died at Gosfield
                    Hall, in Essex, where her husband, who had become King Louis the Eighteenth, was
                    then living in exile; this elder princess was married when Charles Felix was
                    only six years old; and he remembered that in the midst of the wedding
                    festivities he was taken to the theatre for the first time.
                At the age of ten he saw his eldest brother, the Crown Prince, depart for
                    Versailles, to marry Madame Clotilde de France. When the Prince of Piedmont returned with his bride, the
                    people of Chambèry very impolitely called out, “Oh! how fat she is! How fat she
                    is!” and her good mother?in?law, sitting by her side in the royal carriage, said
                    consolingly, “When I came here in similar circumstances the people
                    cried out, ‘Oh! how ugly she is! How ugly she is!’” But Clotilde was good and
                    sweet like her sister, Madame Elizabeth, and spoke tenderly to the little
                    brothers, as Charles Felix recalls in a fragment of his lively autobiography.
                    After the wedding, the royal children went back to Montcalieri, a country
                    palace, and there for more than ten years they received a solid and serious
                    education. Charles Felix is reported to have done only one naughty thing in his
                    childhood: having had a taste of the stage at his sister’s wedding, he wanted to
                    see it again. A theatre was attached to the palace, and on the occasion of a new
                    piece being performed, he persuaded a page to leave open a private door, that he
                    might peep in. He found it duly open, but alas! on the other side was a man!
                    Charles Felix tumbled into the arms of his father!
                When he was sixtieth years of age, his 
                        young? est
                        youngest
                     sister, two years his senior, was married to a Prince of Saxony, but
                    in the very next year, that terrible scourge of princes, the inexorable
                    small?pox of the eighteenth century, carried off the poor young bride. At the
                    age of twenty Charles Felix also lost his mother, and his nature had taken the
                    impress which it ever afterwards retained—an impress of gentle severity and holy
                    peace. It was well for him that he was thus annealed, for days were coming when
                    storms were to break over little Piedmont, storms which in all ranks within that
                    kingdom were hard to bear.
                The first rumble of the coming thunder came from the rolling carriage?wheels
                    which brought back the married children of Savoy. First to appear was the
                    Comtesse d’Artois, bringing with her two French sons, Angoulème, sixteen years
                    old, and Charles Ferdinand, Duc de Berry, somewhat younger. After them followed
                    troops of emigrés, among them the Dukes of
                    Condé and Bourbon, and the little Duc d’Enghien—three generations of a great
                    race. They all seem to have kept Christmas together, and on Twelfth Day the children had a cake, young Prince Maurrienne
                    of Savoy was King, and Angoulème, oddly enough, was Queen. In March, 1791, came
                    two very unhappy women, Mesdames Adelaide and Victoire of France, elderly and
                    bewildered, pausing to visit their niece Clotilde on their way to Rome. Carlyle
                    has given us in his “French Revolution” a grotesque, and, to my thinking,
                    irreverent picture of these old daughters of Louis the Fifteenth. They were
                    close upon sixty, just a year between them; Madame Victoire was tall and ugly,
                    Madame Adelaide was tall and stout, but had a very kind face; both poor ladies
                    were clad in brown stuff gowns and black fichus, and were so utterly scared by
                    the recent scenes at Versailles, that they could hardly abide the sight of
                    strangers, even though these strangers were royal cousins of their own. On
                    crossing the bridge over the river which then divided the territories of France
                    and Piedmont, they had been pursued with jeers and maledictions, while on the
                    Italian side they were received by a guard of honour and drums and trumpets.
                    When the carriage stopped at the gate of the palace of Chambèry, the King of Savoy handed out Madame Adelaide, who
                    very naturally did not know him, and in her trouble and confusion did not so
                    much as notice the gentleman on whose arm she leant. Great was her distress when
                    she was told he was her royal host, and that she had been wanting in due
                    etiquette. Charles Felix kept a sort of diary, written with quaint, mild
                    vivacity and flashes of humour. It would help us to understand those times much
                    better than we do, if other people had done the same. His point of view was
                    naturally quite different from that of the usual historian. He was the equal of
                    all those of whom he spoke, naming them by their territorial titles—“D’Aosta,
                    Maurrienne, Piedmont, Angoulème,” the latter as the “eldest of the petits
                    d’Artois.” Poor D’Enghien (the youngest of the three Condés) cried when he went
                    away from Chambèry. And in this old court of Sardinia all the elaborate
                    ceremonies and frequent religious functions were kept up with the utmost care;
                    and they are noted down, intermixed with the quaintest revelations of personal
                    character.
                In the midst of that family gathering, Charles Felix’s sister, the Comtesse
                    D’Artois, shut herself up in a darkened room,
                    declaring with tears that under no circumstances would she ever return to
                    France, but desired to go straightway into a convent. To which “the Cardinal”
                    replied that as she had a husband and two sons she must do no such thing, and
                    she was obliged to come out and give it up. During all this time M. de Provence
                    and his wife, that other sister of Charles Felix, were shut up in
                    Paris, and on the twelfth of July, 1791, Mme. d’Artois received a letter from
                    them, which her brother abridged in his diary, describing how the Princess
                    Josephine (Madame de Provence) stole away on a dark night, apparently from the
                    Tuilleries, and felt her way along the garden wall until she reached a small
                    door where waited Madame de G—. By the help of a man?servant and that servant’s
                    wife, the two ladies got off out of Paris, and reached Lille, picking up M. de
                    Provence at Mons. This was coincident with the fatal flight of the royal family
                    to Varennes. At Brussels Monsieur and Madame found their younger brother the
                    Comte d’Artois, and the three Condés; but Madame declined to remain, and said
                    she wished to return to her father, the King of Sardinia. This tender but precise parent said she might come if
                    she came by herself, and he would provide her with a court: “what was certain,”
                    said her brother in his diary, with a faint touch of irony, “was that she had
                    not a halfpenny, and was dying of hunger” at Brussels. She survived, however,
                    many years, and so finally died in England.
                Meantime the threatening storm drew nearer, and the poor little court of Sardinia
                    stood like a sand castle on the shore, in face of the advancing tide. We are
                    accustomed to read of the splendid victories of the armies of France, of the
                    enthusiasm of the Republican troops, of the great race of soldiers bred up in
                    their ranks, generals and marshals of France—their deeds are a poem, an undying
                    legend of glory; their portraits are at Versailles, their names are engraven on
                    the Arc de Triomphe. In the palace of the Tuilleries, the great central hall
                    opening on the balcony under the clock (the familiar clock that is no more!),
                    was known as the Salles des Marechaux. They have had
                    their poets and their painters, and their memory will never die. But in the life
                    of Charles Felix we read a pathetic page of
                    the other side of the story; how the Republic sent a revolutionary
                    ambassador, M. de Semonville, to Turin; how quarrels were skilfully fostered;
                    how in the winter of 1792 the King of Sardinia sent him back to France; how
                    Paris roared, got her troops together, and finally, in September, invaded
                    helpless little Savoy, while Austria shilly?shallied, not sorry to see a lamb
                    thrown to the wolf. France pounced on Savoy and Nice, and a weary struggle began
                    which lasted on and off for four years; till Buonaparte, carrying everything
                    before him, halted at a few days’ march from Turin, and the old monarch, Victor
                    Amedeo, the father of so many sons, was summoned to abandon his capital. He
                    ended by giving up Savoy, Nice, Tende, and Beuil, and not unnaturally died in a
                    fit of apoplexy before worse came about. His eldest son, Charles Emmanuel,
                    husband of Clotilde de France, was finally driven off the mainland to the island
                    of Sardinia, and was escorted thither by the English fleet. Before this came to
                    pass, and during the time of bewildering trouble, Charles Felix went on with his
                    private diary, even so late as 1798; but there
                    came a day, it was the sixth o{ December, in that year, when he notes that the
                    royal family all sat up in conclave until two o’clock in the morning. On the
                    seventh he writes, “Vendredi. Vivalde, Ch. Bernes”—these three
                    words and nothing more; the rest of the book is blank white paper, and he seems
                    never to have written again. On the tenth, a Monday morning, the royal family of
                    Sardinia set out very early by torchlight. In the darkness those who first got
                    out of Turin waited anxiously for those who were belated. At last all the young
                    men were got together, and the carriages started for the place of rendezvous by
                    different roads. They intended to meet at Leghorn, but the old king, who had
                    gone round by Florence, fell ill in that city, and there they all waited for two
                    months; not till the twenty?fourth of February did the English fleet take them
                    in charge and land them in Cagliari, where the people received them with joy and
                    greeting, and where Charles Felix was destined to dwell for sixteen years
                    without ever revisiting his native Piedmont. He went there a young prince, he
                    left it a man of forty, soon to be a king. How they all got on in the interval can be shortly told, for one sorrow
                    after another fell on the House of Savoy. The old king died on the mainland and
                    was taken to be buried at Montcalieri. When his sons went into exile on the
                    island, Charles Emmanuel took with him a troop of Piedmontese retainers, and
                    settled into an old building near the cathedral of Cagliari, and made of it his
                    palace, while the Archbishop made room for Charles Felix, who chose for his
                    household only native Sardinians. Hardly were they all established when a little
                    boy, son of the Duke d’Aosta, and sole male heir of all the brothers, died at
                    the age of five. Next came the death of Maurice, Duke de Montférat, who caught a
                    violent cold and fever on a night voyage, and perished at the age of
                    thirty?four. During these events the mainland of Italy was overrun by Austrians,
                    Russians, and French. The misfortunes of Piedmont culminated in Napoleon’s
                    famous victory at Marengo, on the 14th of June, 1800, after which Charles Felix
                    gave his native country up for lost. The new king “Piedmont” had bad health, his
                    dearly loved wife, Clotilde de France, had died, and he said he could no longer
                    “bear his Crown of Thorns;” he abdicated and
                    went away to Rome to live, and his next brother, Victor Emmanuel, then became
                    king. A ray of relief in the gloomy tragedy of these years is given by the
                    passage across the scene of the well?known Frenchman, Count Joseph de Maistre,
                    who came and lived for a time with Charles Felix at Cagliari. The sight of his
                    name in the sad pathetic pages is like a breath of air from the outer world.
                Finally the youngest of all the brothers, the “dear, dear child” of the wise
                    Charles Felix (but one year older) died quite suddenly, apparently of the usual
                    fever, and this last blow quite upset the nerve of the Viceroy of Sardinia.
                    Affection for Mauria (the Comte de Maurrienne) is the dominant note of the first
                    half of the book; the two had been educated together, in the strict monastic
                    manner of that old court; they had suffered insult, and what they felt to be
                    very bitter exile in common. “Dear, dear child, I love you more than myself and
                    more than anything else on earth,” says one letter; and in another, “They tell
                    me to preach to you because you work too much; take care of yourself, for the
                    whole world is not worth your little finger; you are all that is good, and I am la
                        cattivaria”—which seems to be patois for general worthlessness.
                And so, when Mauria died, Charles Felix for the first and last time quailed
                    before the storm. He fell into black melancholy and was got off to Rome, where
                    he besought the Pope to favour his entering a monastery, an old and ardent
                    desire of his youth. But the Holy Father expressed a strong desire that the
                    Prince should remain in the world, for the House of Savoy was dwindling away
                    visibly. He then tried to get out of being any longer Viceroy; but to this his
                    brother the King was equally opposed; and worse befell, for he was implored to
                    enter the marriage state! There were now but three of his brothers living; the
                    original Prince of Piedmont, who had abdicated; Victor Emmanuel (Aosta), who had
                    lost his only boy; and Charles Felix himself, who was by this time seven and
                    thirty. They sent him back to Sardinia to consider the matter; and there, as
                    ever, and more than ever, he lived the life of a saint, giving up his revenue
                    for the poor, rounding a dispensary with a doctor and a surgeon attached, which
                    has survived all dangers, and is still to be found at Cagliari, and devoting time, thought, and money to
                    education of a high order, especially medical.
                Numberless little traits recounted of him, give the impression of a man of
                    absolute rectitude and ardent piety; not clever in the ordinary sense of the
                    word, and limited by education to one set of thoughts; but lifted above his
                    fellows by that higher wisdom which always ends by impressing its mark upon a
                    reluctant world.
                Two years he gave to thinking and praying, and then he gave way, and wrote to his
                    royal brother that he had made up his mind to marry, and thought he could choose
                    no more suitable wife than the Princesse Marie Christine of Naples, the niece of
                    Marie Antoinette, and great aunt of the Comte de Paris. But here again there was
                    a difficulty, for the Princess, who was six?and?twenty, said that she on her
                    side did not wish to marry; she had already refused several suitable alliances,
                    and the most the ambassador could obtain from her was that she must take some
                    time to consider; and it was six weeks before she would ratify the consent given
                    secretly by her parents. But she did so, and
                    she had certainly never any cause to repent. Charles Felix wrote her a very
                    pretty letter, in which he tells her that he will always try to make her happy,
                    and says further that he hopes she will be pleased to accept the “seules
                    expressions” which he is as yet allowed to make use of, when he signs himself
                    her very affectionate cousin, Charles Felix. The short letter is perfumed with
                    the bloom of good wishes and sincere resolves. The Pope blessed him, and prayed
                    that he might give a numerous offspring to the House of Savoy. But, alas! Heaven
                    denied the prayer, and a painful omen befell in the loss by shipwreck of four
                    thousand pounds worth of diamonds, which he ordered from England for his bride.
                    They are at the bottom of the sea! He told a friend that she had “enough of her
                    own,” and so went off to Palermo to be married to her whom he afterwards called
                    his “Dear Wife,” and who showed in subsequent years the firmness and real
                    goodness of her sister Marie Amélie, the Queen of the French, and seems to have
                    become much loved by Charles Felix.
                For some years the married pair lived tranquilly in their island; lived in fact
                    the lives of saints, keeping a modest court
                    and doing good with the right and the left hand. The chief incident was the
                    stamping out of a violent epidemic fever, during which Charles Felix worked
                    incessantly with the medical men, and when his relatives sent an English ship to
                    fetch him away, he refused to leave, or to let her touch at the port of Cagliari
                    and so incur quarantine. During these years poor little Piedmont floated about,
                    a derelict on the stormy waters of European politics. Sometimes the King saw a
                    chance of getting back to Turin, and then his hopes would be rudely upset.
                    Austria, having married Marie Therèse to Napoleon, was no longer to be counted
                    as a friend; the King of Naples lived in Sicily, and every change in French
                    affairs had a contrecoup in the Italian Peninsula. During the Hundred Days, when
                    the French Royal Family left Paris, Charles Felix did his best to keep his
                    wife’s mind easy about her relatives, and curious paragraphs indicate their
                    distance from the centre of affairs; Christine counting the days to prove that
                    the bad news could not possibly, if true, have become known. But it was true
                        nevertheless. At last, however, Waterloo
                    put an end to Napoleon, and under the treaties of the Allied Sovereigns the
                    Royal Family of Piedmont all went back to Turin, after years of exile.
                Now began a new state of matters, which it is extremely interesting to see from
                    the inside. The King had no male heir, and Charles Felix, alas! had no child;
                    and the next in succession to the throne of Savoy and Piedmont was a very far
                    away cousin, the Prince de Carignan. We knew him many years later as Charles
                    Albert, an heroic fighter against the Austrians, but in 1815 he was a very young
                    man, whose father had died when he was only two years old, and he had
                    consequently received his education from a mother who shared none of the
                    opinions and prejudices of the old House of Savoy; she lived firstly at Dresden
                    and afterwards at Geneva, and at the age of fifteen her son received from
                    Bonaparte a lieutenancy in a regiment of dragoons. When the fall of the Emperor
                    cast this youth into the bosom of the Royal Family at Turin, it may be imagined
                    that the excellent old cousins did not know what to do with him. And yet he was
                    the heir!
                Charles Felix, in spite of his profound personal piety, had a wider outlook on life than the rest of his House; and he was
                    more hopeful for and indulgent to the Prince de Carignan than was the King. But
                    for the disparity between their ages, he might probably have won him, and saved
                    him from those associations with the Carbonari which were matters of danger in
                    Charles Albert’s later life, when it used to be said that he was in constant
                    fear of assassination from the companions of his youth.
                The brothers married him in 1817 to a princess of Tuscany, and they tried very
                    sincerely to hold friendly relations with the young couple; Charles Felix, in
                    particular, did his best to soften the severer and narrower judgment of the
                    King. Meanwhile political intrigues and popular demands were threatening to
                    overwhelm the ancient Monarchical Constitution, and in 1821 the King felt he
                    could bear the situation no longer, and suddenly abdicated, as had done the
                    original Prince of Piedmont. Charles Felix, who did not lack firmness, accepted
                    the heavy task; and for ten years he literally set his back against the wall,
                    and fought for the old ideas and the ancient laws of Savoy. A weaker man or a more foolish man would have succumbed from
                    the mere worry. The hero prince “held the fort” for Jesus, King of men.
                Charles Albert’s singularly unlucky career began at Novara, and ended in 1848;
                    but during the ten years of the reign of Charles Felix he seems to have dwelt in
                    peace with his old cousin.
                There is to me something indescribably touching in the story of those ten years.
                    The modest dignity of the royal Court, the expenses perpetually cut down in the
                    cause of charity, the minute pains with which the people were cared for, the
                    encouragement given to learning, the restoration of Hautecombe (though it cannot
                    be said that the architecture rivals that of the Middle Ages), and, above all,
                    the personal holiness of the man at the helm of the Ship of State, make a
                    beautiful picture, however opposed to the popular English sympathy of to?day.
                    There is nothing in the coarse common?sense of Victor Emmanuel, King of Italy,
                    nothing in the verbose eloquence and shady private life of Garibaldi, to compare
                    for a moment with the character or the language of the last King of Savoy. One
                    of the most extraordinary political
                    enthusiasms of modern times has resulted in our English toleration of men who,
                    if they had been Londoners, we should not have tolerated for a year. Victor
                    Emmanuel weeping metaphorically at the knees of the Pope, and consenting to
                    marry his mistress lest he should die without the sacraments, and Garibaldi
                    getting into troubles which were an open secret, and pouring forth torrents of
                    inflated prose, seem to me very poor men indeed compared to noble, chaste, firm
                    Charles Felix.
                When he died, in 1832, they bore his coffin regally across Lake Bourget. The
                    chants of the Water Funeral were echoed back from the mountains, and the people
                    he had governed were stirred as when a saint is gone. And so little could the
                    Princes of Carignan keep up the old glories of their place and state, that Savoy
                    is now a French province, Royal Chambèry the head of a Prefecture, Nice a
                    possession of France, and the King of Italy leads an uneasy life in his capital,
                    overwhelmed with debt, submissive to Germany, building ironclad on ironclad to
                    keep invaders from his shores, ruining the sublime beauty of Rome by the huge
                    barracks which lack inhabitants, cutting up
                    the splendid gardens, turning out the religious orders, and indirectly fostering
                    a mongrel society which must be seen and heard to be believed in.
                Charles Felix lies at Hautecombe, on the side of the Savoyard lake, and though
                    his laws and the principles in which they were rooted are swept away from the
                    mountains and valleys where his ancestors had ruled for a thousand years, the
                    life of such a man is never lived in vain.
            
            
            
                MONTAGUS AND PROCTERS.
                
                    BASIL MONTAGU.
                    IN the year 1845 Basil Montagu was the handsomest old English
                        gentleman imaginable, although he must have been three score years and ten
                        at the lowest computation, for he was one of many children, and the tragic
                        death of his beautiful mother took place in 1779. He had snowy hair, blue
                        eyes, and an aquiline nose of the most pronounced and aristocratic type; and
                        his stately wife, the Mrs. Montagu so vividly described by Carlyle, was as
                        dark as he was fair. They then lived at Storey’s Gate, in the little house
                        once occupied by Mrs. Norton. It is still standing,¹ and can be known by its porch and
                        balcony, and by the mirrors which even yet reflect the park. Famous people
                        have visited that small house, and I believe it was there that ¹ It has been
                            destroyed this year. Meredith
                        placed the London home of Diana of the Cross?ways.
                    Basil Montagu was the son of the historic Lord Sandwich, the patron of
                        Captain Cook and name?father of the Sandwich Islands. His birth was
                        irregular, and his life from beginning to end a strange romance. He was one
                        of the three finally surviving children of Miss Ray, who was barbarously
                        murdered as she was leaving Convent Garden Theatre by a young clergyman of
                        the name of Hackman. It was a most piteous and dreadful crime, for there is
                        no authentic record¹ of any worse flaw
                        in the poor woman’s character than that involved in her relations to Lord
                        Sandwich, and her murderer was actuated by a mad jealousy which, according
                        to reasonable testimony, she had done nothing to provoke. The event is
                        reported in the serious?minded Gentleman’s Magazine, under date
                        of April 7th, 1779. Here are the exact words in their quaint sobriety:—
                    “Wednesday. A most unprecedented murder was committed on the person of Miss
                        Ray by the ¹ The
                            spurious nature of the letters lately republished is surely demonstrated
                            by Lord Sandwich’s public recognition of his children. Rev. W. Hackman, who, being desperately in love
                        with her, watched her from the play, and as she was stepping into her coach
                        amidst a crowd of people, clapped a pistol to her ear and shot her through
                        the head. She dropped and expired without a groan. His intent was instantly
                        to destroy himself, but in that he failed, and endeavouring to make his
                        escape, he was secured and committed to prison. He appeared to be perfectly
                        in his senses, and endeavoured to justify the act by a sudden impulse that
                        for a moment convulsed his mind. The deceased for more than sixteen years
                        had been connected with Lord Sandwich, and had been the mother of nine
                        children, five of whom are now alive. At the time when Lord Sandwich was
                        attracted by her person she was in her sixteenth year, and an apprentice to
                        a mantua?maker in Clerkenwell. This murder affords a melancholy proof that
                        there is no act contrary to reason that reasonable men will not commit when
                        under the dominion of their passions. It is impossible to convey an idea of
                        the impression made on all ranks of people when it was first reported; the
                        manner of it struck every feeling heart with horror.” Such was the very human utterance of Sylvanus
                        Urban, avoiding all reproach of the unfortunate mother of so many young
                        children, who expiated her fault by so dreadful a fate. The street ballad,
                        of the epoch which then usually commemorated events striking to the popular
                        imagination, touches the same key, and Grub Street furnished a long poem on
                        the death of Miss Ray; one verse of it, quoted by Thackeray, ends with a
                        rough but touching piety:— 
                            “A clergyman, O wicked one!
                            In Convent Garden shot her,
                            No time to cry upon her God,
                            It’s hoped He’s not forgot her.”
                        
                    It must be added that it would be unfair for the cloth to suffer in
                        reputation for Hackman’s atrocious deed. He had held His Majesty’s
                        Commission, and it was as a soldier that he first met Miss Ray, at
                        Hinchinbrooke, and he sold out in pursuance of the object of his admiration.
                        Why he took orders, how he obtained ordination, and why he should have
                        imagined that by such extraordinary and disreputable plotting he could
                        succeed in winning Miss Ray away from her children and their father, is one
                        of those mysteries which surround the sphere of madness. At the inquest, which was very fully reported on the
                        next page of the magazine, Hackman seems to have made no effort at
                        self?defence, simply saying that jealousy had driven him mad. A Mr.
                        Macnamara appeared as principal witness, and described how he had taken Miss
                        Ray upon his arm in order to lead her to the carriage sent by Lord Sandwich,
                        how he had suddenly felt the shock and the noise of the explosion, and the
                        movement of the lady dropping on the pavement, dead! The pistol had been
                        fired close to the back of her head.
                    Hackman was of course condemned, and suffered at Tyburn Tree on the 19th of
                        April, whither he was taken in a mourning coach accompanied by the chaplain
                        of Newgate, a sheriff’s officer, and James Boswell of Auchinlick. Lord
                        Carlisle also attended the execution, and gave an account of it to George
                        Selwyn which is to be found in Selwyn’s correspondence. Hackman stated that
                        he had taken the pistol with the intent of committing suicide, but had been
                        maddened by jealousy at the sight of Mr. Macnamara. Such was the poor crazy
                        criminal whose deed filled all London with horror, and orphaned a house full of children, causing the
                        people of that day to overlook the irregularities of Miss Ray’s life in
                        their pity for her tragical fate.
                    It is wonderful and instructive to note that in the official life of Lord
                        Sandwich, written by his domestic chaplain, the great minister is lauded as
                        a model of all the virtues, in language which only the pompous diction of
                        the last century could supply. He was sixty when this awful tragedy befell
                        him, and survived to the age of seventy?three, dying younger than did his
                        son Basil. He was succeeded by his only legitimate son, born to him by his
                        third wife, Dorothy Fane, which son became a man of no particular
                        importance; but Basil rose to great eminence, and Basil’s brother became
                        Admiral Montagu, while the only surviving sister married the Sardinian
                        Ambassador, Comte de Viry.
                    It was probably one result of the mother’s melancholy death that Lord
                        Sandwich thenceforth brought up the children of his dead mistress as kings
                        have brought up their offspring, giving them his name, and, so far as he
                        could, the advantages of his own rank. Basil’s name is deeply writ on the
                        Statute Book of England, while from the
                        Sardinian marriage sprang a train of curious circumstances, of which “The
                        Lost Chord” survives as an echo of the Catholic marriage of Madame de
                        Viry.
                    It should be also recorded by the truthful historian that pious proper George
                        the Third was much attached to Lord Sandwich, and twice visited the fleet
                        while that nobleman was at the head of the Admiralty. In this connection an
                        anecdote is told (but not by the chaplain) of the inquisitive monarch. He
                        asked to taste the pork and pease soup on which the equipage of a certain
                        man?of?war was about to dine. Lord Sandwich sent a message to the purser,
                        who sent word back that he could not “victual any man in a King’s ship
                        without a warrant from the captain.” This was obtained in due form, and
                        accompanied with the request that a nice piece of pork should be selected
                        for his Majesty. The crusty purser declared that this was against all rule.
                        Either the King or the First Lord of the Admiralty must “prick in the tub
                        and take pot luck.”
                    Returning to Basil Montagu (still a familiar figure when our Queen was
                        young), he was in due time sent by his
                        father to Oxford, and thence to the Bar. While at college and under
                        twenty?one, he made a runaway marriage with a baronet’s daughter. I forget
                        her name, but he used to talk about her to me with much frankness. The young
                        wife died in child?birth, leaving a son, also named Basil, who grew up to
                        manhood. The boyish father was heartbroken at her loss, and told, in his old
                        age, how he spent the days thinking about her, and the nights in lying upon
                        her grave. “But,” said he, with old?fashioned precision, “I reflected, my
                        dear, that such indulgence in grief would never do; so I made a resolution
                        to think of my wife for a quarter of an hour less every day, and I did so
                            (impressively); and so at last I was cured of my sorrow.”
                        It is half a century since this narrative of a grief?cure was given, but the
                        quotation of the strange recipe is exact.
                    At the Bar Mr. Montagu built up a great reputation. He was intimately
                        associated with Sir Samuel Romilly in successful efforts to abolish the
                        punishment of death for those numerous offences, far short of murder, for
                        which it was then pitilessly exacted. Together they waged a long and successful crusade. Of the
                        state of the law and the astounding callousness of the British judge at the
                        beginning of this century, the following letter bears evidence, and is worth
                        many statistics. In 1810 Sir Samuel received a letter signed Stephen R.
                        Amwell, informing him that in passing through Maidstone, the writer had
                        learned that three men, all convicted for slight offences, had been left for
                        execution by the judge. One of them, Lawes by name, who had stolen property
                        worth forty shillings, might be thought to have some claim to mercy because
                        a bill to repeal in such cases the punishment of death was actually pending
                        in Parliament. The man was to be hanged on the day following the receipt of
                        the letter. Sir Samuel hastened to the Secretary of State, and he without
                        delay sent on Amwell’s letter to Judge Heath. Here is the judge’s
                        answer:—
                    “Sir,—I have received and read the letter with the signature of Amwell, and
                        by some passages I am confident that he wrote me a letter, signed Amicus
                        Curiæ, respecting Lawes. As for Lawes, he was guilty of house?breaking,
                            and most probably burglary, in the
                        dwelling house of Mary Wilkins, a widow woman, who carries on the business
                        of baker at Minster, and stole plate to the value of £20 and upwards, to the
                        best of my recollection. As housebreaking has been frequent in Kent and no
                        person appeared to give him a character, I left him for execution. Stephen
                        Nichols was convicted of stealing two heifers, which the prisoner and his
                        brother, who has absconded, pretended to have bought for £34. They were
                        driven from the close of a poor widow woman whose property they were, and
                        slaughtered by the prisoner.
                    “The third is Peter Presnel, who was convicted for breaking into the cottage
                        of John Orpin, no persons being therein, and stealing therein property to
                        the value of five shillings; in fact, the things were of the value of forty
                        shillings. It was found that the cottage was broken into while the
                        prosecutor was absent at his labour, and all the valuable things were stolen
                        by the prisoner. I consider this offence the worst of all, because, if not
                        checked, it would destroy all parsimony and frugality among cottagers. In
                        truth, I tried ninety?nine prisoners at
                        Maidstone; and excepting one executed for murder, I only left the above
                        three for execution, and not one of those could adduce a single witness to
                        his character.
                    “I have the honour to be, etc.,
                    “D. HEATH.
                    “Bedford Square,
                    “April 8th, 1810.”
                    No respite was sent, and consequently the three men were hanged. Nichols was
                        reported in the newspapers to be a boy of nineteen.
                    The abolition of these ghastly laws and practices was the main triumph of
                        Basil Montagu’s middle age; but his house was for years the centre of
                        bright, refined activity; 25, Bedford Square, was blessed by all the younger
                        spirits of literature and the law.
                    In his old age, when all his sons and daughters were married or otherwise
                        scattered (for of the boys I have no accurate count), he was a devotee of
                        Lord Bacon, whose works he edited, and of whom he ever spoke with fanatic
                        admiration.
                    In 1845 my parents lived in his near 
                            neigh? bourhood
                            neighbourhood
                        , and I thought it an immense honour to help him prepare gigantic
                        rolls of paper, which were pasted together till they were of the size of a
                        small sheet. On these Mr. Montagu would print in huge capitals the names of
                        the Cardinal Virtues. I understood at the time that these had some
                        connection with Lord Bacon! It is not my impression that Mr. Montagu was
                        particularly gifted with devotion to the Counsels of Perfection, but to this
                        day I cannot see Truth and Temperance printed on a handbill in Roman letters
                        without thinking of my dear old friend. I do not know what purpose he had in
                        view, but I can hardly think that so important a personage intended to
                        deliver a lecture to any audience lower in status than the assembled
                        Bar!
                    Quite towards his closing years Mr. Montagu suffered some reverse of fortune
                        which must have been caused by younger members of his family. The little
                        establishment at Storey’s Gate was broken up, and he and his wife retired to
                        France. I last saw him waving a good?bye to my parents on the pier of
                        Boulogne, He was buried in the cemetery on the St. Omer Road, with one short line of noble epitaph, well
                        deserved, for he had certainly used his life of labour for the cause of
                        Justice and Liberty and the happiness of Mankind.
                
                
                    BASIL MONTAGU’S WIFE.
                    It is difficult to attempt the portrait of any one who has already been
                        described by Carlyle. He threw all his impressions on paper with a touch of
                        unconscious virulence, so that even his best?loved heroes, even Oliver
                        himself, disclosed under his revelations a cruel or a distressful side. I
                        knew that beautiful lady of Carlyle’s description very well, as the young
                        know the old; and I knew her for the course of many years, for Mrs. Montagu
                        long survived her husband, and, returning to England, lived to a great age
                        in the house of her daughter, Mrs. Procter. Whatever sorrows she had to
                        bear, and they were neither few nor slight, she bore them in silence with a
                        splendid courage, and did her best for all around her. No woman of our time
                        could have had more reason to feel outraged by any allusion to her private
                        griefs, and when I look up at the windows of the little house in Storey’s Gate, where I once spent long hours,
                        listening with enthusiasm to her wise and kindly wisdom, I feel amazement
                        after a lapse of a long half?century that the image of such a wife and
                        mother should remain associated with the unredressed insults of Carlyle’s
                        ungrateful pen. But to this subject I must needs return when I come to speak
                        of her daughter, Mrs. Procter.
                    Mrs. Montagu’s maiden name was Benson, and she came from the same family
                        stock as the present Archbishop of Canterbury. She was born in York. I do
                        not know what was the occupation of her father, but I have reason to believe
                        that her uncle was incumbent of the living of Bolton on the Wharfe, and that
                        by him, and in his parish church, she was early married to a young lawyer
                        named Skepper, a lineal descendant of the second partner of the famous firm
                        of Fust and Scheffer, the earliest printers. This marriage must have
                        occurred shortly before the year 1800. Mr. Skepper died early, and when
                        Basil Montagu met the young widow, which I have always supposed to have
                        happened while he was on the Northern Circuit, her little Anne was a very young child. I have no
                        record of the place or date of Mrs. Skepper’s marriage to Mr. Montagu. My
                        father’s first memory of her referred to her as installed in the large
                        house, No. 25, Bedford Square, where the children of his two previous
                        marriages were gathered, nor do I know anything about Mr. Montagu’s second
                        wife, who died prematurely, leaving, I think, two sons. Little Anne Skepper
                        was thus brought up in the house of her stepfather, and could recall no
                        other parent; she ever regarded him with profound respect and warm
                        affection, and was a true sister in all her dealings with the other children
                        of that complicated family. Mrs. Montagu was at all ages a most beautiful
                        person; the only figure which in any way recalls her to me is the well?known
                        portrait of Mrs. Siddons as Queen Catherine. Speaking of Anne Skepper’s
                        marriage to the poet Mr. Procter, then better known as Barry Cornwall, Mr.
                        Coventry Patmore, who knew them all, says, “That a poet could hardly have
                        aspired to a greater temporal reward than the friendship of the Basil
                        Montagus and the hand of their daughter will not be questioned by any of
                            the many living persons who have had
                        the happiness of knowing the family. No young man who understood what honour
                        meant, and none understood it better than the high?minded and sensitive
                        young poet, could think that fame had in store for him any favour which
                        could surpass or equal those which she was now conferring on him. Hence,
                        perhaps, the sudden and final extinction of his literary ambition, which
                        seemed to occur about this time, notwithstanding an amount of popular
                        encouragement that, under ordinary circumstances, was calculated to fire him
                        to redoubled exertions. The manners, at once stately and genial, of Mr.
                        Basil Montagu and his wife have few or no counterpart in modern society. The
                        stateliness was not that of reserve but of truth in action, and the
                        geniality arose, not from easy good?humour, but from earnest goodwill. Of
                        Mrs. Basil Montagu it may indeed be said that for a young man to know her
                        was an education. Even at a time when her great personal beauty was slightly
                        (it was never more than slightly) obscured by age, there was that about her
                        that no well?disposed and imaginative young man could long behold without
                            feeling that he was committed thereby
                        to leading a worthy life. If the reader is inclined to smile at this praise
                        as somewhat obsolete in its mode, let him be assured by one who knew Mrs.
                        Montagu that it seems so only because that style of woman is obsolete.”
                    I have quoted at length this page from Mr. Coventry Patmore’s biography of
                        Mr. Procter because there are now left so few people who can recall the
                        Montagu household. It was in the little drawing?room at Storey’s Gate that I
                        first met Mr. Patmore. He had just published his first book.
                    Mrs. Montagu’s great personal beauty and distinction were heightened by the
                        pains which she took with her peculiar dress; it was almost that of a “Plain
                        Friend,” and recalled the aspect of Elizabeth Fry. She never indulged in
                        more than three dresses, and the material was black satin, which in the
                        years when I first remember her (in the Forties) was very much in vogue. I
                        imagine that she must have allowed herself one new dress every year, and she
                        wore the three in strict and careful rotation. The costume was cut low and
                        square in front, as in so many of the
                        portraits of Reynolds and Gainsborough; ample folds of white muslin met the
                        dress, and, mounting to the chin, encircled her fine old face and head in
                        beautiful pleats; the effect was that of a cap, but I do not know how it was
                        managed, and it was a standing jest among her intimate friends that no one
                        could ever divine the modus operandi of
                        Mrs. Montagu’s toilet. I believe that the robe was cunningly fastened upon
                        the shoulder, and the point of junction concealed under a fold of black
                        satin. I have often seen her clear starching and ironing out the voluminous
                        folds of white muslin with her own stately hands. The effect of the whole
                        costume was charming to behold.
                    She wrote a remarkably beautiful Italian hand, or rather what we now know as
                        the Elizabethan writing, the stems of the letters serried together, and the
                        letters themselves wide apart. Every word was plainly separate. In her old
                        age she was fond of teaching writing to her young friends. She would not
                        tolerate a blot upon the page, and she abhorred a word of slang in
                        conversation. It was just the time when Boz and Pickwick had started fresh
                        forms of speech among the new generation
                        of young men and maidens, and I regret to say that they occasionally fell
                        with her into deep disgrace! No one ever gave me so much the impression of a
                        moral soldier under arms as Mrs. Basil Montagu. About a month before her
                        death her son?in?law went upstairs to pay her a visit in her private
                        sitting?room. He came down and said to Mrs. Procter “My dear Anne, your
                        mother must be ill; she has allowed herself to cough in my presence.” During
                        that last thirty days, Mrs. Montagu sat up quietly reading as usual; she was
                        a religious woman, and when she could no longer go out to church, she read
                        her books of devotion steadily at home, but her daughter one day, standing
                        softly behind her, saw that the book was upside down in her
                        mother’s hand. When at length one Friday morning the brave old lady could no
                        longer rise and sit in her accustomed arm?chair, it was the first time that
                        her granddaughter, Adelaide Procter, had ever seen her head recumbent upon
                        its pillow. In three days she had quietly passed away, and for all those,
                        now few in number, who can still familiarly remember her, the name of Anne
                        Benson Montagu recalls an image of
                        majestic beauty and dauntless moral courage of which Englishwomen may well
                        be proud.
                    A few words must be added about the only daughter of the famous advocate.
                        Carlyle refers to her as having made “a considerable foreign marriage;”
                        about which he evidently knew nothing, for it was not in any way a
                        legitimate subject for his covert sneer.
                    Emily Montagu was born in Bedford Square, and was, I think, about fifteen
                        years younger than her half?sister Anne, who felt for her an affection which
                        was one of the softest points in Mrs. Procter’s character. I only saw her at
                        one epoch, when, in middle age and a second time widowed, she came back to
                        England to see her mother, then living in Mr. Procter’s household. This was
                        her story.
                    It will be remembered that the daughter of Lord Sandwich, educated and
                        dowered by him, eventually married the Sardinian Ambassador, Comte de Viry.
                        She disappeared from England, and over Sardinia and Savoy swept the great
                        storm of the French Revolution, during which the House of Savoy took
                            refuge in the island, conveyed thither
                        under the escort of the British Fleet. Forty years passed; the last king of
                        the old line of Savoy, Charles Felix, was restored to his kingdom after
                        Waterloo; and after a ten years’ reign, he died a holy death, and his coffin
                        was conveyed in a “Water Funeral” across the Lake of Bourget (close to
                        Aix?les?Bains) and laid in the abbey church of Hautecombe, where his
                        forefathers had also been buried. Hautecombe is still considered an isolated
                        point of Italian soil. To Charles Felix succeeded his distant cousin, the
                        Prince de Carignan, whom we know as Carlo Alberto, and it was during the
                        reign of that liberal king that two young Sardinian gentlemen came over to
                        the Embassy in London, whose names were Comte William de Viry and Comte
                        Adrien de Revel. The first?named was, of course, nephew to Basil Montagu,
                        and both of them were attracted to the refined, gentle daughter of the
                        household. Emily Montagu preferred her cousin, but there were difficulties,
                        probably arising from unwillingness on the part of the parents to part with
                        their only girl. Comte de Revel at this juncture conquered his own feelings,
                        and did his best to promote his friend’s
                        happiness. Presently the family opposition was surmounted, and Miss Montagu
                        became Comtesse William de Viry, and went away with her husband to Turin.
                        This was about the year 1840. But the marriage was of short duration; Comte
                        William died early, leaving two very young children, a boy and a girl. The
                        boy was the king’s godson, and destined to be a royal page; he was named
                        Alberto, and was his mother’s darling. Then began a long renewed courtship
                        on the part of Comte Adrien de Revel, a courtship of romantic tenderness and
                        very little hope, for de Revel was sent on foreign missions, St. Petersburg
                        always looming in the distance, and Alberto could not legally leave Italy,
                        and Comtesse William de Viry refused to listen to her faithful lover until
                        both were middle?aged. At last, when Alberto was fifteen, and some change
                        was made in the boy’s position and education, his mother gave way. Adrien de
                        Revel obtained his lifelong desire, and they were married at Turin, where
                        the Court to which they were attached habitually resided. After the ceremony
                        they went to Genoa for their honeymoon, intending to return shortly to the capital and their usual duties,
                        for both of them were of an ideal strain, and fidelity to all their
                        engagements was with both the habit of their lives. The long?deferred
                        wedding had taken place on a Wednesday, and on the next Monday morning Comte
                        de Revel awoke at early dawn in the grip of the Cholera Fiend, then hovering
                        over Europe. Nothing availed to save him. There were only twenty lives lost
                        in Genoa, but his, alas! was one.
                    There is no need to say more. They are all gone now: the faithful lover, the
                        faithful mother, and also the two children whom they had reared from their
                        early orphanhood. Alberto became a soldier, and his sister eventually
                        entered a convent. Madame de Revel did not survive many years, but I have
                        only a vague memory of the news of her death coming to London, and of the
                        grief caused by it to the English relatives who had always loved her
                        well.
                
                
                    THE PARENTS OF ADELAIDE PROCTER.
                    The father and mother of Adelaide Procter were both so highly gifted, and
                        their household was known to so many
                        surviving friends, that it is only fitting their names should precede her
                        own, although she achieved a greater fame; yet there were years when “Barry
                        Cornwall” was known to all, and when his songs were sung all over England.
                        Two of them, “The sea, the sea, the open sea,” and the “Return of the
                        Admiral,” have their permanent place, though many of his charming and poetic
                        pages have sunk into comparative oblivion. In his own person he was a
                        refined and somewhat silent man, with a head said to resemble Sir Walter
                        Scott’s in miniature, and he was extremely beloved by the literary world.
                        But he lived an interior life, into which, I think, none but his wife ever
                        penetrated. He was profoundly attached to her, and she was for ever
                        shielding him from the wind that blew too roughly. He had many sorrows, and
                        death twice visited his household under most pathetic circumstances. To ward
                        off blows from “Brian” and to sustain him with her own abundant strength,
                        was Mrs. Procter’s constant care, and in this she showed a side of her
                        character wholly unsuspected by the outer world.
                    
                    Mr. Procter was born so long ago as 1787, and was not far from forty when he
                        married the lovely girl, Anne Skepper, who had been brought up in the home
                        of her stepfather, Basil Montagu. Bryan Walter Procter came from the North
                        of England. He was educated at Harrow, and spent his holidays at the house
                        of a great?uncle who lived about a dozen miles from London; and his first
                        real instructress in literature was a female servant, born in a better
                        station of life, who had read Richardson and Fielding and worshipped
                        Shakespeare. She used to recite whole scenes to the boy, and encouraged him
                        to buy a Shakespeare of his own. “But,” says he, “I had not leisure to study
                        and worship my Shakespeare long, for at the end of a month or six weeks my
                        destiny drove me back to school.” There he had two schoolfellows, boys named
                        Robert Peel and George Gordon Byron. Of Byron, Mr. Procter says that he then
                        showed no signs of poetic grace. “He was loud, even coarse, and very capable
                        of a boy’s vulgar enjoyments. He played at hockey and racquets, and was
                        occasionally engaged in pugilistic encounters.” Of himself he says he was
                            neither very short nor very tall,
                        neither handsome nor hideous. He survived Byron for fifty years, seeing the
                        dawn, the zenith, and the partial oblivion of his fame.
                    Among Mr. Procter’s poems should be especially noticed the fine ring of
                        Belshazzar, and some of deep and tender domestic interest. The lovely lines
                        to his wife, beginning— 
                            “How many years, my Dove,
                            Hast thou been mine!
                            How many years, my Love,
                            Have I been thine!”
                         and the exquisite tribute to his dead boy, called “The Little Voice,”
                        are among the most poignant utterances of the human heart. But nothing in
                        his gentle, reserved face betrayed in later life the interior fire.
                    He led a hard?working life in London as a barrister, and later in a
                        Government office.
                    In looking through the memoir published in his widow’s lifetime, I was
                        chiefly struck by a letter in which he describes his study, and says,
                        regretfully, that he has never been abroad, never seen Italy or France, he,
                        the poet and the lover of Italian art; and by another letter about the Indian Mutiny, in which “Our son (the
                        only son I have, indeed) escaped from Delhi.” He tells how this young man,
                        left to him after the death of his eldest boy Edward, had been in Delhi, and
                        how he and four or five other officers, four women, and a child, escaped.
                        The men were “obliged to drop the women a fearful height from the walls of
                        the fort amidst showers of bullets. They were seven days and seven nights in
                        the jungle without money or meat, scarcely any clothes, no shoes. They
                        forded rivers, lay on the wet ground at night, lapped water from the
                        puddles, and finally reached Meerut.”
                    Montagu Procter married some years later the youngest of the ladies here
                        spoken of. At the time of the Mutiny she was a girl of fifteen. He became
                        eventually a general, and, returning to England, survived his father, but
                        predeceased his mother, who, indeed, lost successively all her children save
                        two.
                    Of Mrs. Procter much will inevitably be written in future years. She was a
                        very remarkable person, and lived in possession of almost unbroken health
                        and faculties until nearly ninety. As a girl (“my dearest girl,” writes
                            the poet during his betrothal) she had
                        been extremely pretty. She was an early playmate of my mother’s, but my
                        memory of her dates from her middle age, and extends over nearly fifty
                        years. She was the daughter by a first marriage of Mrs. Basil Montagu, and
                        always spoke of her mother with the greatest reverence. But of the race of
                        poets to which she was inextricably bound, she spoke with a half?laughing
                        satire. One was evidently her life?long lover, and one was her child, and
                        several others clustered about her like bees. She did not exactly hold a
                        salon; there was no great fortune in the household, nor any sort of
                        pretension whatever, and Mrs. Procter gave one the impression of having her
                        hands very full; but everybody of any literary pretension whatever seemed to
                        flow in and out of the house. The Kembles, the Macreadys, the Rossettis, the
                        Dickens, the Thackerays, never seemed to be exactly visitors, but to belong
                        to the place. Three of the daughters became Catholic, and Mrs. Procter, who,
                        I imagine, did not dwell much on the next world, stood between them and the
                        sensitive father, to whom the loss of close union was a great misery. I used
                        to think it infinitely touching to see
                        Mrs. Procter trying to harmonize the household. If “Brian” could be kept
                        cheerful and if nobody was ill (and, alas! somebody was very often ill),
                        then the quick vivid mother of the family seemed content. She had a habit of
                        going into the world, a habit of dressing fashionably, a habit of writing
                        the nearest and most concise notes possible; but her consistent, steady
                        kindness had assuredly some deep spiritual root, of which she never spoke.
                        Like her mother, she never abdicated for a moment her great tenue, never kept her room, never lowered the
                        scale of her dress, never lost her composure; I should doubt if in sixty
                        years a meal had ever been placed upon the table which she had not herself
                        ordered. It was my fate to be very closely associated with her under
                        circumstances in which ninety?nine people out of a hundred would have broken
                        down, and yet when she lost her daughters, it was their friend whom she
                        tried to spare. I particularly remember her taking me with her to the
                        Catholic cemetery in Kensal Green to plant a quantity of ivy on Adelaide’s
                        grave. I can see her kneeling at the headstone, twisting the sprays, with a
                        face of anxious, steady determination.
                        That grave is now a place of pilgrimage to American and Colonial travellers.
                        It is thickly overgrown with ivy, but nobody guesses that the mother planted
                        it herself.
                    Many years afterwards, Edythe Procter died very suddenly—indeed, in a manner
                        truly tragical—failure of the heart’s action. Mrs. Procter was then more
                        than eighty; and before the announcement could traverse the Continent in the
                        newspapers, came a careful letter, addressed to a delicate friend at
                        Mentone, and on the corner of the envelope two tiny, neatly?written words,
                            “Bad News.”
                    Such were the environments of Adelaide Procter’s life—a short life, for she
                        died at the age of thirty?eight. Of outward incidents, apart from the sudden
                        blossoming of her literary fame, there were scarcely any. The year spent in
                        Italy, where her aunt, Madame de Viry, was attached to the Court circle at
                        Turin, was certainly a determining influence on her life. Emily de Viry had
                        become a devout Catholic, and at that time the saintly wife of Victor
                        Emmanuel was living. The example impressed
                        Adelaide’s mind, and doubtless contributed to her religious change. At
                        Aix?les?Bains is a large portrait en pied
                        of the young Queen of Sardinia in her bridal dress. It looks, at first
                        sight, to be a purely conventional picture, but the eyes are of a haunting
                        depth. They recall a word?picture of the Queen returning from Holy
                        Communion, which Adelaide Procter gave. The wife of Victor Emmanuel was
                        passing along one of the galleries of the Palace, her face “shining as with
                        an interior lamp,” when she was met by the young English girl, who never
                        forgot the sight. Of this association Adelaide Procter always bore the
                        trace. In her religious attitude she resembled a foreign rather than an
                        English Catholic. She looked like a Frenchwoman mounting the steps of the
                        Madeleine, or a veiled Italian in St. Peter’s. The one thing she never
                        mentioned was her own conversion.
                    One of Miss Procter’s sisters, named Agnes, joined the order of the Irish
                        Sisters of Mercy; and in looking back to our childhood I best remember her,
                        as the nearer to my own age.
                    In 1840 the Procters lived in St. John’s Wood, and used to visit their grandparents in Storey’s
                        Gate; and in this house it must have been that two children were sitting by
                        the fireside one evening. There was no other light in the room, and Agnes
                        Procter (Sister Mary Francis) suddenly made a confidence; saying, in a tone
                        of intense childish conviction, “I do love mama.” These words made an
                        ineffaceable impression on the hearer, for the little speaker was never
                        supposed to be at all imaginative, and certainly Mrs. Procter did
                            not pose before the world as a tender woman—rather the
                        reverse—though her intimates knew her for a very good and kind one. And the
                        last time that I saw Sister Mary Francis she was kneeling by that mother’s
                        open grave at Kensal Green, her sincere, gentle face, under its veil,
                        looking but little changed since the day of her profession some thirty years
                        before. It may not be irrelevant to add that shortly after her somewhat
                        unexpected death after a few days’ illness, the Reverend Mother spoke of
                        Sister Mary Francis’ great and unusual affection for her mother as of a
                        profound sentiment rarely noticed either in or out of the religious life. It
                        was the sweet soul’s one earthly romance.
                        I do not know in what light Mrs. Procter’s memory will go down to posterity
                        when the letters and memoirs of the generation in which she played so large
                        a social part come to be written and published; but this image of her as
                        enshrined in her daughter’s heart should be recorded, for it is true.
                    Of the gifted eldest daughter the mother was intensely proud, and well may
                        she have been, for a more vital spirit never inhabited a finely?wrought
                        frame. Adelaide Anne Procter was so curiously unlike her poems, and yet so
                        distinct in individuality, that it is a pity she was not painted by any
                        artist capable of rendering her singular and interesting face. There was
                        something of Dante in the contour of its thin lines, and the colouring was a
                        pale, delicate brown, which harmonized with the darker hair, while the eyes
                        were blue, less intense in hue than those of Shelley; and like his also was
                        the exquisitely fine, fluffy hair, which when ruffled stood out in a halo
                        round the brow. A large oil painting of her exists, done, I believe, by Emma
                        Galiotti, and it is like her as she appeared in a conventional dress and a
                        most lugubrious mood, but the real woman
                        was quite different. She had a forecast of the angel in her face and figure,
                        but it was of the Archangel Michael that she made one think. There was
                        something spirited and almost militant in her aspect, if such a word can be
                        applied to one so exquisitely delicate and frail. She was somewhat older
                        than myself, and therefore, while I remember Agnes as a little girl, my
                        first distinct memory of Adelaide dates from a period when she was already
                        grown up, and had returned from Turin.
                    In her manner and dress she bore all the marks of a very exquisite breeding.
                        She was conversant with foreign languages, knew French and Italian well, and
                        wrote a peculiarly clear and delicate hand. One of her minor accomplishments
                        was that of illumination. Monsignor Gilbert possessed two excellent examples
                        of her skill in this unusual art. In her youth she danced lightly and well.
                        All these little details go to make up the portrait of a very charming
                        personality.
                    She was already thirty before her name had been heard, except as that of
                        Barry Cornwall’s “sweet, beloved First Born.” Her poems 
                            circu? lated
                            circulated
                         among friends, just as Rossetti’s used to do, being copied from
                        hand to hand. Then one was sent by her anonymously to Charles Dickens, and
                        inserted by him in a Christmas number of Household Words.
                        Dickens thus tells the story:—“Happening one day to dine with an old and
                        dear friend, distinguished in literature as ‘Barry Cornwall,’ I took with me
                        an early proof of the Christmas number of Household Words,
                        entitled ‘The Seven Poor Travellers,’ and remarked, as I laid it on the
                        drawing?room table, that it contained a very pretty poem, written by a
                        certain Miss Berwick. Next day brought me a disclosure that I had so spoken
                        of the poem to the mother of the writer in the writer’s presence; that I had
                        no such correspondent in existence as Miss Berwick, and that the name had
                        been assumed by Barry Cornwall’s daughter, Miss Adelaide Anne Procter.”
                    From this time forward, I forget the year, she continued to write in
                            Household Words, and the poems attracted so much attention
                        that people used to pretend they had written them. When they were at length
                        collected into volume, with the writer’s name attached, they rushed into fame, and circulated all over the
                        kingdom; and Miss Procter received a pathetic appeal from a young lady, who
                        asked her could it be true that these lovely verses were all
                        hers, for her lover had been in the habit of assuring her, as each poem
                        successively appeared, that it was his own! Twelve editions followed one
                        another, and five years after, the demand for her poems was still “far in
                        excess of that for the writings of any living poet except Mr. Tennyson.” I
                        think it caused her a feeling of shyness amounting to pain to have so far
                        outstripped her poet?father in popular estimation. “Papa is a poet. I only
                        write verses.”
                    A very few years after this wide recognition of her genius the end came. Her
                        health began to fail in 1862, and by the end of that year she was confined
                        to her bed. So great was the fragility of her frame, that when once the
                        lungs were attacked there seemed to be no chance of saving her. Then began a
                        battle which the two or three surviving people who witnessed it can
                        assuredly never forget—a battle royal with the power of Death. I do not mean
                        that she consciously tried to live a longer life, but that she did not give way an inch to the Destroyer.
                        The only time I ever saw her quail was one day when I got a little pencil
                        note, “They say the second lung is attacked.” I hurried
                        off to the house, and found her sitting up in bed, her pretty fair hair
                        standing out in a halo, her blue eyes fastening on mine with an anxious,
                        wistful look. But the momentary panic passed away, and she recovered her
                        cheerfulness, repeated her prayers, talked of Jean Ingelow’s poems (and
                        particularly of the “High Tide in Lincolnshire”), made her gentle jests—she
                        was naturally extremely witty—and faced the Destroyer with the most pathetic
                        mixture of resignation and pluck imaginable.
                    At last, one day—it was the 1st of February, 1864 (Thackeray had died on
                        Christmas Eve)—I went to her in the evening, and found her greatly
                        oppressed. But she was very eager about a poem of mine, “Avignon,” and would
                        sit up in bed holding it in her slender, trembling hands, and trying to
                        correct the proof. The last line ran— 
                            “Ora pro nobis, Sainte Marie.”
                        
                    The evening wore on—nine—ten—eleven
                        o’clock. It was not possible for me to remain later without greatly alarming
                        my parents, and I had to leave. After an anxious consultation with Edythe, I
                        returned to the sick?room and kissed her forehead, saying, “Good?night,
                        dear.” She looked up at me quickly and gravely, and said, “Good?night.”
                        After I had left, they sat beside her—the mother, the sister, and the maid
                        who had been with them very many years. About two in the morning of the
                        Feast of the Purification her breathing became oppressed. She looked up in
                        her mother’s face, and said, “Mamma, has it come?” And
                        Mrs. Procter said, “Yes, my dear,” and took her in her
                        arms. And so, while Edythe knelt by her side, reciting the prayers for the
                        dying, my dear Adelaide passed away in peace.
                    It remains to say a few words about her poems. Since for years they had a
                        larger sale than those of any other poet save Tennyson, they must have
                        penetrated into every reading household in Great Britain. Of late, however,
                        their popular fame seems chiefly to repose on the “Lost Chord,” nobly set to
                        music by Sir Arthur Sullivan. It is wonderful to see the enthusiasm infused
                        by this song. The vast audience of St.
                        James’s Hall thrills as one man when it is given. But in the beauty of the
                        narrative poems, and in the profound depth of feeling of those which have an
                        autobiographical source, the student of Victorian literature will, I am
                        convinced, find permanent delight; and that many verses and many lines will
                        survive may be inferred from that perfection of form which is essential to
                        lasting fame. Miss Procter always used the plainest words to convey her
                        thought, the simplest, choicest words to express her feeling. Some of those
                        which deal with the human heart are wonderfully sweet and subtle.
                    One of the most striking of the personal poems is “A Woman’s Question,”
                        beginning— 
                            “Before I trust my fate to thee.”
                        
                    And another, named “Beyond,” of which the two last stanzas run thus:— 
                            “If in my heart I now could fear that, risen again, we should not
                                know
                            What was our Life of Life when here—the hearts we loved so much
                                below;
                            I would arise this very day, and cast so poor a thing away.
                            
                            But love is no such soulless clod; living, perfected it shall
                                rise
                            Transfigured in the light of God, and giving glory to the skies.
                            And that which makes this life so sweet shall render Heaven’s joy
                                complete.”
                        
                    Another delicately subtle poem is entitled “Returned—Missing,” and how strong
                        and noble is “A Parting.” And lastly, the charming “Comforter.” 
                            
                                “If you break your plaything yourself, dear,
                                Don’t you cry for it all the same?
                                I don’t think it is such a comfort,
                                One has only oneself to blame.
                            
                            
                                “People say things cannot be helped, dear,
                                But then that is the reason why;
                                For if things could be helped or altered,
                                One would never sit down to cry.”
                            
                        
                    The more specially religious poems are to be found in a small volume entitled
                        “A Chaplet of Verses,” published for the benefit of the Night Refuge
                        originally established close to the church in Moorfields. It opens with the
                        trumpet call of the “Army of the Lord,” a splendid piece of verse. But “Give
                        me thy heart” is to be found in the first volume of “Legends and Lyrics.”
                        Both of them are surely equal to any of Father Faber’s. What nobler prayer,
                        more perfectly expressed, than that
                        contained in the eight lines:— 
                            “Send down, O Lord, Thy sacred fire!
                            Consume and cleanse the sin
                            That lingers still within its depths;
                            Let heavenly love begin.
                            That sacred flame Thy Saints have known.
                            Kindle, O Lord, in me!
                            Thou above all the rest for ever,
                            And all the rest in Thee.”
                        
                    The “Chaplet” has been stereotyped, and has had a wide circulation. One poem,
                        entitled “Homeless,”¹ was written at
                        Monsignor Gilbert’s special request, and was for years inserted in the
                        annual report and appeal for funds. Of the seven stanzas, I quote two. The
                        concluding lines of each exemplify the rigour with which Miss Procter
                        rounded a thought where weaker poets fail:— 
                            
                                “Why, our criminals all are sheltered,
                                They are pitied, and taught, and fed;
                                That is only a sister—woman,
                                Who has got neither food nor bed—
                                And the Night cries, ‘Sin to be living,’
                                And the River cries, ‘Sin to be dead.’”
                            
                        
                        ¹ Now that
                            Monsignor Gilbert has been withdrawn from our midst, there is no reason
                            for refraining to say that he, who was her confessor, and whom she
                            certainly trusted above all, read through this paper and ratified it
                            with his approval.
                        
                            
                                “Nay; goods in our thrifty England
                                Are not left to lie and grow rotten;
                                For each man knows the market value
                                Of silk, or woollen, or cotton...
                                
                                    But in counting the riches of England,
                                
                                I think our Poor are forgotten!”
                            
                         The profits of this little book, of which the sale still continues,
                        were so considerable that Monsignor Gilbert founded a bed in the Refuge
                        called the “Adelaide Procter Bed,” a permanent memento and reminder of
                        prayer for her soul.
                    And lastly, I have been told upon the highest authority that her personal
                        habits of piety were of the most fervent and consistent kind. The intensity
                        of her susceptible nature found expression and support in her faith. She was
                        strengthened in much suffering, and consoled in much grief, by ardent love
                        of God. She never failed in courage when to publicly confess obedience to
                        the Catholic Church demanded strength of no usual sort, for her lot was cast
                        among those who did not acknowledge the claim; and she, who was eminently
                        delicate in fibre and subject to many fears, went down by slow degrees into
                            the “valley of the shadow of Death,”
                        with a cheerful heroism rarely seen.
                    It was on the 2nd of February, 1864, that Adelaide Procter’s wasted frame was
                        laid within the coffin. The snow lay on the ground in patches outside the
                        old church in Spanish Place, full of the lighted candles held by a dense
                        congregation. 
                            “And we know when the Purification,
                            Her first feast, comes round,
                            The early spring flowers to greet it
                            Just opening are found;
                            And pure, white, and spotless, the snowdrop
                            Will pierce the dark ground.”
                        
                    So we laid masses of snowdrops all about her, and for years the recurring
                        sight of them brought back the vision of that calm spiritual face amidst the
                        flowers. But of her, more than of others, it truly appeared that only the
                        frail worn envelope lay there. While on earth she had habitually dwelt in
                        the spiritual world; and into its inner depths, behind the veil, the Lord,
                        whom she so well loved, had led her, by a long and painful path, so that it
                        seemed to those who knew her as if by an almost imperceptible vanishing she
                        had been withdrawn from their eyes. Edythe
                        now lies in the same grave in the Catholic Cemetery at Kensal Green, and the
                        names of the two sisters are folded in the ivy which their mother planted
                        there.
                
            
            
            
                A CHAPTER OF WAR.
                WHEN the sun sets behind the long line of the Aqueduct of Marly, a
                    profound peace falls upon one of the most beautiful home prospects in the world.
                    An ancient village lying in a fold of the hills behind Mont Valerien sends up a
                    faint smoke from its chimneys; the first spurs of the hills of Normandy can be
                    seen, line beyond line, in the far distance, and the great flat plain through
                    which the Seine winds and doubles is dotted with the lights of innumerable
                    villages—the leafy suburbs lying between Paris and St. Germains. Paris itself is
                    unseen, but a walk through the woods brings within range the electric gleam of
                    the summit of the Eiffel Tower shining like a star. To a dweller in the village
                    the exceeding antiquity of every association, covering full a thousand years,
                    affects the imagination with a silent background of past generations. Yet over this cluster of dwellings, this house,
                    these steep green banks and groves of secular chestnuts, rolled the full tide of
                    war five?and?twenty years ago.
                Looking back to the early months of 1870, I can recall no portent, no slightest
                    cloud upon the horizon. Invasion seemed as far from us in France as it seems
                    from us in England now; and France was very prosperous. Commerce made no
                    complaint; the corn and the wine and the oil of that land of many climates were
                    poured forth into the markets as from an abundant cornucopia. Literature was
                    still sending out fresh shoots, and Victor Hugo survived as a magnificent
                    oak?tree of the past. There were scarcely any beggars to be seen, and the
                    innumerable works of charity were unvexed by opposition. Near our village the
                    Empress had specially favoured the great convalescent hospital at Le Vesinet,
                    and omnibuses rolled constantly to and fro between its gates and those of the
                    Paris hospitals. So far as I could see the huge machines of the State worked
                    smoothly: we had great doctors in the wards and great lawyers at the Bar. Not
                    only was there an Imperial 
                        follow? ing
                        following
                     of unquestioned zeal, but the Opposition numbered in its ranks men
                    such as a Thiers and a Gambetta, and a great following of respectable and
                    thoughtful men of the professional classes. Parties, however much opposed, were
                    of a firm consistence, and political aspirations were reasonably expressed and
                    definite in shape. The household whose experiences I am about to describe had
                    then been settled in the village for forty years. They had bought houses and a
                    little land, and children had grown to maturity and settled in life. The
                    surviving elders, who had been very young under the First Empire, were not
                    Imperialist, but were personally attached to the House of Orleans; and the men
                    of the next succeeding generation had interests connected with the Second
                    Empire, and one of them, who ten years later occupied a public office of
                    eminence, was a consistent Republican of a moderate type. The growing lads had
                    of course taken their baccalauréat at Paris
                        Lycées, and one of them had just won the
                    Premier Prix of the year 1867, and was therefore exempt from all military
                    service. So that this family might fairly be considered to be in touch with the varied elements of French
                    life.
                But there were two things which they did not know. They had no social link with
                    the Tuilleries or Compiègne, and the low thunder of the democratic growl was
                    unheard by one and all. Once, two years before the war, the English member of
                    this family had dined in Paris at the house of an Inspector of Schools who had
                    risen from the ranks, and at this table there arose a whisper of a likely rising
                    among the workmen of Lyons, a whisper nervously hushed, and which was until
                    later forgotten by the hearer. Who remembers the sheet lightning of the previous
                    evening in the broad light of a stormy day?
                In the spring of 1870 the sense of security was exceptionally strong, for the
                    Emperor, vexed by parliamentary opposition, and aware of smouldering embers in
                    the great towns of which the outer world knew nothing, called a Plébiscite in the month of May. The result was an
                    overwhelming vote of confidence. We happened to be at La Rochelle on the day of
                    the vote, and spent the evening at a villa on the shore 
                        belong? ing
                        belonging
                     to the mayor of the town. One of the official tellers hurried out with
                    the yet unpublished result. He whispered in the ear of our hostess the one word
                        “Splendide!” in a tone of the deepest
                    exultation. And from every quarter of France during that week came up similar
                    returns from all the Mairies. I have never doubted the essential veracity of
                    that popular vote, which counted by millions, and which no tampering could have
                    caused to swerve in an appreciable degree.
                It is not true that provincial France distrusted the Empire. Whatever may have
                    been the state of feeling among the workmen of the great towns, no one who
                    really knows the departments of that immense country can imagine that the great
                    wine?growers in the south, or the farmers of La Beauce, or the fishers of
                    Brittany desired a change of government. France is so very much larger than
                    England, and its farming peasants have so great a stake in the soil, that they
                    form a huge, steady, horizontal mass of workers, up at four in the morning and
                    in bed by nine in the evening, devoted to their children and to the accumulation
                    of five?franc pieces or coupons de
                    rente, which are four?pound divisions of the
                    National Debt, and constitute an immense savings bank, reposing on the stability
                    of public institutions. These French millions have less to complain of than any
                    other labouring millions in Europe, and in spite of difficulties in
                    manufacturing centres, and in the Parliament sitting in Paris, it is difficult
                    to believe that the shock would in our generation have come from within if it
                    had not previously come from without. Never for twenty years did Napoleon the
                    Third appear to sit more firmly on his throne than in May, 1870.
                The month of June was very hot; the temperature of the north of France,
                    unsoftened by the Gulf Stream, is more acute in heat and cold than that of our
                    island. The shutters on the south side of the house were all closed, we
                    literally barricaded out the sun, and sat in a small strip of garden to the
                    north, the maids and the ladies sewing and reading in the profound stillness.
                    The white fruit blossoms had fallen from the apple and pear trees, the Spanish
                    chestnuts were filling out their crop, and nothing more wildly improbable could
                    have been 
                        sug? gested
                        suggested
                     than that the one or the other should be plucked and eaten by armed
                    warriors of another nation, with spiked helmets and the accents of a tongue
                    absolutely unknown to our people. Then came the Hohenzollern incident, which did
                    not seem much to concern us; and then the half?ironical quarrel of the
                    ambassadors, which as told in the newspapers read like the dramatic insult:—
                “I, sir?”
                “Yes, you, sir!”
                And then all in a moment the unlikely thing happened, and war was declared. But
                    though the telegrams were read with eager interest, they did not seem to
                    immediately concern the village. The coffee was roasted as usual out of doors,
                    perfuming the air with an odour which is one of the most characteristic of rural
                    France. French nursery rhymes were sung in the shrill accents of Tarbes, and the
                    village crier delivered his usual warning about mad dogs. We knew that the
                    French troops had shot across the frontier on their way to Berlin, and one of
                    the newspapers published a map of the seat of war, which we pinned up, and on
                    which the advance was daily marked in blue
                    paint. Then came anxious letters from London—“You do not know what is happening.
                    Come back, come back, and bring your belongings.” But it seemed useless to
                    dislodge a very complicated household of old people and young children, and
                    servants who were practically Basques; and so the days passed on, and July was
                    out, and Saturday the 7th of August dawned upon us—the last peaceful day we were
                    to know for many a month.
                This Saturday evening stands out in my memory because of a visit from Paris. A
                    very young man, not yet twenty?one, the “Premier Prix,” who, as I have said, was
                    thereby exempt from conscription, came out to dinner; and an hour later the
                    heavy shutters were unbarred, and the windows of the drawing?room thrown open on
                    the balcony. The fading sunset filled the room in the cool of the evening, and a
                    little child lay asleep in a cot while the servants were dining. It was a time
                    of special stillness; but that sun had set on the battle?field of Wœrth, the
                    first great defeat of the war. MacMahon was wounded, and the sons of many
                    mothers lay dead before their time.
                
                This news did not reach us till 8 o’clock the next morning, and then it came
                    thirty miles across country viâ Versailles,
                    although we were much nearer to Paris. It had been brought by the late train
                    overnight to a still lonelier village near Mont l’hèry, by a wealthy gentleman
                    connected with the Paris Bourse, and travelled in an omnibus starting at six
                    o’clock in the morning from Mont l’hèry to our neighbourhood. I doubt if the
                    dread reality appeared in the morning newspapers until twenty?four hours
                    later.
                We knew, then, on the Sunday morning that the tide had turned, and that the
                    Germans were chasing the French. Still, not a soul believed that they would get
                    to Paris, or that the zone of country in which we lay could be in the smallest
                    danger; and for three weeks we remained quietly, trusting absolutely to the
                    great battle which was to be fought between Paris and the frontier. Meanwhile,
                    the young child was baptized in the village church, and the youthful cousin and
                    godfather came in the new uniform of a Garde Mobile. All the men under forty
                    were being enrolled in some volunteer corps.
                All through August the Germans seemed to us to
                    be not so much advancing as concentrating in huge masses between us and the
                    frontier. They were still a hundred miles away, and I cannot now remember what
                    gave the first bad alarm; but one day an order was given to make ready for the
                    blowing up of all the bridges on the Seine outside Paris. This was afterwards
                    said to have been absolutely useless. The Germans were coming from the east, the
                    Seine running from Paris to the sea turns north and west, doubling like a
                    riband, and is so comparatively narrow that it could oppose small hindrance to
                    the passage of troops. But the order was given, and our old stone bridge at
                    Bougival was to be prepared by excavating a huge hole in the central buttress
                    and the filling of the same with powder. This sight for the first time struck
                    terror into the country people; and as we went on the following day down the
                    steep hill, a mile in length, between our house and the river, we found
                    literally every woman in Bougival sitting on her doorstep crying, with her
                    children round her—not only the poorer inhabitants, but the most respectable
                    shop?keepers and bourgeois were in the street, filled with a prevision of
                        what was really coming, for three weeks
                    later every soul was turned out of house and home and Bougival evacuated in four
                    hours. Meantime we watched the men working at the hole in the bridge, the first
                    symbol of the coming ruin.
                We now began to feel it unwise for a family containing very old and very young
                    members to remain in an isolated house on the outskirts of a village absolutely
                    without defence, and, strange to say, we made up our minds to move into Paris,
                    and all our neighbours who had apartments in the city did the same; but this was
                    not easily accomplished. Some fresh panic struck the general courage on the 27th
                    of August, and on the 28th, St. Augustine’s Day, and a Sunday, high mass was
                    said as usual at ten o’clock, and in the afternoon everybody who could procure a
                    vehicle got to the railway station of St. Cloud, a distance of five miles, at
                    four o’clock. There the scene was most extraordinary. No luggage could be taken,
                    and the terrified crowd was dressed with the usual precision of the French on
                    Sunday. Nobody showed any panic in their outward attire. Streams of well?dressed
                    people came to the station from all sides, the
                    train was hopelessly late, the service disorganized with the strain. The tired
                    children cried, and when at last the train came up, the people were packed in as
                    best could be done, and we steamed away to Paris; our boxes with personal
                    luggage were brought in next day. Everything else had to be left to its fate;
                    that is to say, the house was put into complete order, securely barred and
                    locked, and the keys deposited with the village schoolmaster. We were by this
                    time aware that the dozen dwellings of the gentry would be occupied, if ever the
                    German army approached Paris, but nobody knew anything about the customs of war,
                    or had any notion of havoc being wrought by regular troops. It is amazing now to
                    reflect upon that extreme ignorance. In any case, however, it would have been
                    hopeless to attempt any sort of guard, for every valid man was enrolled in some
                    corps, and the farmers and gardeners and tradespeople of the locality were all
                    too fearful for their own property to pay any attention to ours.
                So we went into Paris, to a small apartment near the Luxembourg, where, with a
                    sigh of relief, we felt ourselves perfectly
                    safe! And an English lady, who was in very weak health, told me that she sat
                    under the trees in the Luxembourg with a Tauchnitz volume of Miss Yonge’s “Daisy
                    Chain”; she felt it soothing to her nerves!
                But this delusion did not last many days. A regiment of young mobiles who had
                    been stationed somewhere in the Eastern Departments, were returned upon Paris.
                    They marched through the streets looking thoroughly tired and depressed, and
                    made more impression on their fellow?citizens than a hundred telegrams from the
                    seat of war. Urgent letters from England implored us to come over without delay,
                    and the French newspapers told us of the victualling of Paris and the closing of
                    the railways. As I look back on that five days, the last we were to see of
                    Imperial Paris, I wish that we had taken one more glance at the Tuilleries—had
                    walked once again round the Hotel de Ville! But every hour was taken up with
                    inexorable family duties, and we had to get away by a line we had never
                    travelled before; for the Northern Railway was no longer available. It was late
                    on the Friday evening when our party of three elders and two young children got off from the station of St.
                    Lazare, and as we passed the line of the fortifications, bands of navvies were
                    piling earth upon the road, leaving only the one line of rails on which our
                    train rolled. Their bent heads in the fading sunset was the last we saw of Paris
                    and its people for many a long month. We embarked at Havre for Southampton, and
                    as we passed through a wicket, which must have been put up to check the stream
                    of passengers passing on to the steamer, one of our party vexatiously gave in
                    the dark a ten?franc piece instead of half a franc to the toll?man. By this time
                    it was past midnight, and Saturday the 3rd of September. At Southampton we found
                    the German vessels in the harbour dressed out with flags in honour of Sedan!
                I will now return to the village and to the silent, dark house where we had left
                    so many treasures. It may perhaps be said, with astonishment, why were they left
                    there, since we had had so long a warning of the Prussian advance? It seems as
                    if we might have filled up the Paris apartments with our household goods.
                    Assuredly, if we had had any conception of
                    what war means, we should have done our utmost to get a van, and to place at
                    least the pictures in safety. But while we did not dream of spoliations, and
                    believed that the worst which could happen would be the billeting of German
                    officers in the house, it would, unless we had taken the alarm in the very
                    beginning of August, have been extremely difficult to get the larger pictures
                    conveyed twelve miles into Paris. I was not the actual mistress of the house,
                    and the real and most dear mistress was in acute anxiety for her grandsons,
                    exposed to constant danger; and for the younger children, who might have been
                    caught in some place where they would not be able to get proper food, and, above
                    all, milk. So many children were thus sacrificed in the siege of Paris. Their
                    number will never be known. But what might have been undoubtedly saved were the
                    miniatures and bronzes; and in particular two of the former, which had been
                    given over into my care. Their date was about 1750, and their subjects in full
                    costume. I had pinned them by their faded loops of ribbon to the velvet border
                    of a mirror in the drawing?room on the day they came from an old house in the provinces. It is a sore vexation
                    to me to think that I packed up the silver spoons and forgot these treasured
                    great?great?grandparents. Nay, still more astounding was it that during the week
                    we spent in Paris, one of the servants (they were sisters, and extremely
                    intelligent women from the south) went out to the village, walking for many
                    miles; and after assuring herself that all was right and safe within the house,
                    she filled a large clothes basket with our apples and pears, which it vexed her
                    frugal soul (she was the cook) to leave wasting on the trees. She then cast
                    about how to get them into Paris, and thought herself very fortunate to find a
                    washerwoman with a cart. The two women hoisted up the basket, and then jogged
                    back to Paris in a leisurely way!
                Of the other houses in the village summary mention can be made. The Chateau, a
                    noble old pile of Louis the 14th’s date, was left with servants, and ultimately
                    used to lodge an Etât Majeur. It was not ill?treated. A large handsome villa on
                    the summit of the hill was quite spoilt internally. A small house belonging to a
                    relative was occupied, knocked about, but not
                    destroyed; but the house next to this, where I remember an old lady with a white
                    cat and much handsome Indian china, was entirely gutted. From the floor of the
                        salon, where the great tall Aladdin jars
                    had proudly stood, the visitor looked up to the roof, with a view of the three
                    fireplaces left in the wall one above the other.
                I do not know by which route the Germans came into the village, whether by the
                    lower road from Bougival, or by the upper road from Versailles; but the date was
                    the 19th of September, when the gardens are in gorgeous array, and the woods are
                    untouched. I only know that they must have fetched the keys of our house from
                    the schoolmaster, and that they started with good intentions, for the commanding
                    officer caused an inventory to be taken of everything in the house. Sixty
                    soldiers were lodged in it, who must have indeed been in tight quarters. The
                    officer settled into one of the two largest bedrooms; he had the drawing?room
                    curtains brought upstairs to drape his broad window; he also transferred the
                    drawing?room clock to his mantelshelf, and to this we owe its preservation. Even
                    the large bell glass which protected it was
                    unbroken, when a smaller clock of white marble and ormolu was broken to pieces
                    with a hammer, and the works taken away. To this unknown officer I feel that we
                    owe gratitude for his good intentions, though he was in the sequel quite unable
                    to carry them out, for it seems that the troops were constantly shifted.
                When the German army had been in occupation on our hills for about a month, the
                    sortie of the 13th of October took place. So far as we are able to understand
                    what happened, the French poured out of Paris by way of Rueil and Mont Valerien,
                    and met the Prussians somewhere near Bougival, from which all the inhabitants
                    had been summarily sent away in the course of an afternoon. They were given four
                    hours in which to pack and go. The French seem to have surged up through the
                    steep little town, and to have fought desperately on the broad road below our
                    house. The four nuns who keep our village school stuck gallantly to their
                    dwelling, which they turned into a hospital. They were respectfully treated by
                    the German soldiers, and the good women took in the wounded of both sides. Sœur
                    Marie told me afterwards that fifteen legs were amputated in one night. In our cemetery is a
                    lonely grave, marked only with the initials and the regimental number of three
                    German soldiers, and with the fatal date, the 13th of October. I believe this
                    was the one occasion on which there was actual desperate fighting in our
                    immediate neighbourhood, though bombs came flying over the village, and one shot
                    by Mont Valerien whizzed over miles of tree?tops and fell on a small room on the
                    ground floor of the Chateau. The staff officer who sat writing at a bureau threw
                    himself flat upon the floor, and while the window, the mantelshelf, and yards of
                    the wall flew into splinters, he was unhurt.
                Week after week went by, the scarlet geraniums died in the garden, the vine
                    leaves became scanty on the wall, the frost of late autumn deepened in
                    intensity, and the troops packed into our house began to suffer from cold. They
                    cut away for firewood the upper part of an outside staircase which was sheltered
                    under the deep eaves of a chalet standing on part of our ground; and then, when
                    they wanted three little attic rooms under the roof, they set up a tree against
                    the wall and climbed up like bears at the Zoo.
                    They wrenched an arm off several chairs, as handy to light up the fires, and
                    they piled up such a quantity of wood in the fireplace of the drawing?room that
                    the parquet was literally charred in a great
                    semicircle, and it was a miracle that on the day this happened the whole house
                    was not burnt down. Another day they wrenched off a dressing?room door, and a
                    great piece of the wall came down with it. The village doctor, who remained
                    through the whole time, told us afterwards that jorums of brandy were served out
                    to the men in the worst of the weather. This filled his French medical mind with
                    astonishment, and perhaps accounts for the strange things which occurred. For
                    instance, they tore away one marble jamb of the dining?room mantel, and with it
                    they appeared to have pounded something on the tiled floor. They burnt the
                    cupboard doors, and they carefully extracted every map of France wherever they
                    found one, particularly from Murray’s Handbook in which were several! But I
                    think that the strangest record of their presence was the condition of a small
                    chandelier brought from Vienna by my dear friend the author of “Gossip of the Century.” It was of Bohemian glass, a
                    bowl with pendants, and very prettily coloured. Being of small size, it hung
                    high on a hook in the centre of the ceiling. I found the pendants broken and the
                    bowl intact! What sort of strange popgun had been employed by the idle troops,
                    and what wonderful marksmen they must have been!
                That our house was substantially preserved, was owing, I believe, to the presence
                    of Dr. Russell, the correspondent of the Times at the headquarters
                    at Versailles, to whom I wrote begging for his intercession. In spite of the
                    strange ruin which fell upon our interior, not a single mirror was broken, nor
                    were the pictures stolen with one exception. But a magnificent portrait en pied now in the French Gallery of the
                    Louvre was stabbed five times on the black velvet robe, and another smaller
                    portrait of a venerable ancestress was badly scratched by being wedged against a
                    broken window to keep out the draught. Our fruit trees were not cut down, and a
                    general intention had obtained of not gutting us for firewood! The
                    mischief was of a smaller kind, and infinite in detail. For instance, a polished bed of walnut wood was scarred
                    with innumerable fine cuts, and on our return we wondered who had ornamented it,
                    till we learned that the officers invariably lay down “booted and spurred.” More
                    intentional, on the part of some idle trooper, was the running of a sharp knife
                    up the kind face of Mrs. Beecher Stowe, on an engraving given by herself. It
                    took the exact middle of the nose in perfect accuracy. As to the books, they
                    were torn in an extraordinary manner. A large volume of biographies of literary
                    ladies of all countries, executed in America and sent over to France by
                    enthusiastic friends, was torn, defaced, and here and there adorned with
                    flourishing moustaches! A similar volume of American “Queens of Society,” of
                    which the frontispiece had been a beautiful engraving of Mrs. Martha Washington,
                    was entirely despoiled. Presentation copies of works by Victor Hugo and Thiers,
                    and a set of Byron given by Mr. Murray, were torn and injured. One precious
                    object, a brown paper first edition of “Hernani,” with Victor Hugo’s autograph
                    respects, did escape. It was found tossing in a cupboard in an attic, saved by
                        its shabby look and ancient date. But
                    piles of autograph letters from nearly every writer of eminence in France, and
                    from very many in England, carefully sorted, laid in a secretaire, and put aside
                    by the mistress of the house for a literary grandson, were hopelessly
                    sacrificed. They were found lying about in fragments in the garden, dirtied,
                    torn, and charred. It was decided by those who first returned to the home that
                    none of them could be picked up. They were shovelled aside and burnt.
                Of the people who remained valiantly in the village a few strange and painful
                    incidents may be recorded. I have already said that the nuns were well and
                    respectfully treated. One of them having to go to Versailles for food and
                    medicine, told me she had been carefully and politely driven over by a soldier.
                    But when the beloved old curé was turned out of his presbytery and sent off to
                    Versailles by night, some wretched wag tied two of his hens round the old man’s
                    neck! The village doctor remained in his solitary house, and two officers were
                    billeted upon him.
                The first of his military inmates cleared off all his cups and saucers, and he
                    laid in a fresh stock; two more officers
                    succeeded, and they also packed up and went off with his crockery, which seemed
                    to be an article in much request; the third time he received new inmates he said
                    he had no money, and they had to buy their dishes. When we came back the
                    following June we found that Dr. Lemaire, who had always been a particularly
                    trim, clean?shaven elderly gentleman, had grown a long white beard. We looked
                    with wonder at this unprofessional adjunct, and he told us that “his officers”
                    had a trick (which sounded like a queer joke) of insisting on his procuring legs
                    of mutton, not only for their own consumption, but for other favoured friends.
                    When he assured them that he could get neither sheep nor special joints, they
                    frowned ferociously, and said, “Take him out and shoot him.” Six
                    times he was taken out, and respited! “After which,” said he, “I grew my white
                    beard, thinking that it might soften their hearts.” Finally, when peace was
                    made, the two last officers quartered upon him wished him good?bye with
                    effusion, hoped to see him if he ever travelled so far as Berlin, and solemnly
                    presented their cards “for the ladies of the family” (who were safe at St. Valery). The old doctor replied, wrathfully,
                        “Oh! Ç’a non.” Which said in a certain
                    manner is very like an expletive!
                During the later weeks of the siege a very malignant form of small?pox became
                    epidemic at St. Germains, three miles off. A village woman caught it, and the
                    Prussians nailed her up in a cottage, and vowed instant vengeance on anybody who
                    should dare to break in. Our good Sœur Marie crept out at night and got soup and
                    medicine through the crevices. The patient recovered; and it is fair to say that
                    the officers had probably a shrewd notion that the nuns would manage the matter
                    somehow in spite of their prohibition. Not so fortunate was the village
                    innkeeper, a man of substance, whose chief customers had been wealthy Parisians
                    coming out to dine on Sundays under the spreading limes in a picturesque
                    courtyard. This well?known inn was called the Tourne?Bride. On the
                    first appearance of the Prussians, an officer requisitioned the whole of the
                    cellar. The wine was worth 10,000 francs, £400 of English money. Its loss and
                    the stoppage of the business meant ruin to the unfortunate man. He moved with his good wife into a small tavern two miles
                    away, but it broke his heart, and he died at the end of a year.
                Endless were the stories told us by our humbler friends. One woman who took her
                    daughters off to her own family in Normandy, buried all her linen, which she had
                    no means of carrying away, in a great tub. Of course it was discovered and dug
                    up, and the linen was nowhere on her return. But the worst trouble of all
                    happened at Bougival when François Duberg was taken for cutting the telegraph
                    wires, tried by a court?martial at Beauregard (a Chateau once in royal
                    occupation, and a nursery for the children of France), and shot on a field above
                    our house. He was a gardener by trade, carried no arms, but said, “he would do
                    it again.” At the obelisk raised to his memory on the road, a discourse is every
                    year pronounced in the early days of November. His wife, poor soul, went
                    mad.
                I have now set down after the lapse of five and twenty years the things which I
                    saw and the things which were told me by my neighbours, and they are mostly such
                    as do not pertain to the great tragedies of
                    war. Of these there were no lack, but I mostly heard of them by letter or read
                    of them in print, and I have as yet strictly confined myself to my immediate
                    oral knowledge. But one young friend of mine, a Breton of a noble family which
                    sent five members to the field, contracted fever in the retreat from Orleans,
                    and got back to his wife and to his old mother, just to die. He left two orphan
                    children. Of our family, a cousin was dragged out dead from a heap at Sedan;
                    both our own young mobiles suffered severely in health, and our “Premier Prix”
                    felt the effect for years. Typhoid fever and lingering ill?health are apt to
                    strike lads suddenly deprived of proper food and exposed to days and nights of
                    inclement weather. Another friend, a middle?aged man, sent his young family
                    away, but remained in Paris with an elder daughter who was dying of consumption
                    and could not be moved. He nursed her to the end, and buried her, and sickened
                    himself of small?pox, of which he died. His wife and younger children at St.
                    Valery knew nothing of what had happened for three weeks, and were in an agony
                    of suspense, receiving no more balloon letters from Paris. At last a cautious word reached them in a circuitous way from
                    Belgium, and the wife nearly lost her reason. This unfortunate man was
                    son?in?law to our excellent doctor, who, being himself outside Paris in our
                    village, could only write to his daughter and his own old wife that he had “no
                    news.”
                Finally, of the very worst side of war a much younger medical man who afterwards
                    succeeded Dr. Lemaire spoke to me with shuddering horror. He had been employed
                    in an ambulance corps on the frontier, and at forty was an ageing grey?haired
                    man. He published a volume of reminiscences which for ghastliness is
                    unsurpassed, for he possessed literary talent, in addition to medical skill. He
                    said to me, apropos of his book, “Of course I
                    would go through it again if necessary; but I look back on those weeks not only
                    with unimaginable horror, but with unutterable disgust.”
                And this I believe was the real impression left by the Franco?German war. France
                        certainly did not want it; and though Prince Bismark did want
                    if, and planned how best to prick on an excitable people, it is impossible to believe that the Germans wanted it. There
                    were practically no wrongs to revenge; or whatever wrongs had formerly been done
                    could be laid on the shoulders of that great Captain who cost us all so much
                    blood and treasure that even the son of Queen Louise of Prussia was not
                    justified in avenging them on peasants and shopkeepers sixty years after. War
                    between two highly?civilized nations is not only cruel, but profoundly shocking,
                    and yet ever since the world’s literature began, there has existed a conspiracy
                    of silence in favour of recording only the heroic aspects of war; but the
                    reports of the English newspaper correspondents and the publication of even one
                    book such as Doctor Pierre Boyer’s, have brought the truth nearer to the
                    apprehension of general readers. A well?dressed, intelligent woman whom I met in
                    a railway carriage, and who seemed to be engaged in some successful commerce,
                    said to me, with an expression of extreme disgust, apropos of the war, “Ce n’est plus dans
                        nos mœurs”; and this feeling obtained far and wide. The French
                    people did fight to the bitter end, and would do it again, but it would be with
                    a reluctant anger difficult to describe. It would be unnatural to expect that the Services, whose advancement and
                    reputation depend on getting some one to fight with them, should share this
                    feeling; but it is true of the vast masses of provincial French people, busy on
                    their own concerns, prosperous in affairs, doting on their children,
                    scrupulously particular in their dress, in their cooking, and in the conduct of
                    all their ceremonies, marriages, baptisms, and funerals—people who are extremely
                    civilized, from Boulogne in the north to Nice in the south, and who have no love
                    either for the anarchist or the long?haired Bohemian—these comfortable millions,
                    though they will fight like lions when their blood is up, certainly feel that
                    the bloodshed, the dirt and destruction, and the many abominable incidents of
                    war ne sont plus dans leur mœurs.
            
            
            
                DR. MANNING OF BAYSWATER.
                IT is more than thirty years since I first saw the great Cardinal. He
                    was then at the head of the oblates of St. Charles Borromeo, and apt to be
                    called in the outer world “Dr. Manning of Bayswater.” He seemed to fill the
                    populous suburb with his greatness. Somebody, I forget whom, who saw that I was
                    tending to the Church, urged me to go and see him, and I remember feeling a
                    strong disinclination to go. I had never spoken to any human being, priest or
                    pastor, on spiritual things; but an appointment was made, and I went, and was
                    shown into a small, narrow room, where I waited a few minutes, and then the
                    tall, thin, severe?looking priest came in. He was not severe in later years,
                    and, to one who knew him well and loved him much, it is not quite easy to
                    accurately record that first impression. He
                    was perfectly polite, but I thought that he disliked speaking to a woman who had
                    taken an active part in a public movement. This may have been a morbid
                    impression on my part, but it caused me to be frightened. I was not long in the
                    room, but though he spoke with the most measured chilly calmness, the few things
                    he said made a deep and lasting effect on me. He told me that “by the mercy of
                    God” he had never doubted of His Personality. He spoke as if perfectly conscious
                    of the Comtist influence then taking possession of English society. It was just
                    at the time when George Henry Lewes and George Eliot were beginning to reign
                    supreme. If one so peculiarly impersonal as Dr. Manning could stoop to a
                    personal revelation, the words and the accent he used may be held to have
                    conveyed this meaning: “Though I am well aware of the length to which the
                    controversy has been carried, still I have never had to concern myself with it.
                    Doubt never touched me in that direction. I have always had an entire faith in a
                    Personal God.”
                He then spoke, with a curious divining sympathy, yet not in any way
                    sympathetically, of the manner of torments to
                    which sensitive converts were exposed by the change.
                He said that the wearing of the round Roman collar in the street had been a
                    misery to him; and he told me of having said to Hope Scott as they walked away
                    from the church where I think they had both been received simultaneously,
                        “Now my career is ended.” And he added, looking at me
                    impressively, “But where I once worked on an acre I now work on a square
                    mile.”
                He knew that I had worked hard, and he had some secret wish to console and
                    encourage in a possible loss of influence, though his manner was that of a man
                    of marble.
                He then advised me to read up the history of the Reformation on all sides, for he
                    put down several books on a sheet of paper, and among them D’Aubigné, remarking,
                    calmly, “But it is full of lies.” In this interview Dr. Manning gave me no
                    spiritual advice, made no appeal to me. His look seemed to say, “You are an
                    unpleasant young woman, one of the stiff old Presbyterian stock; but I will tell
                    you faithfully what I think, and let it take its chance.” I do not think he had any suspicion that I was so impressed and
                    overpowered by his intellect, that when I left the room and the house I ran
                    nearly all the way home, with the sense that I was fleeing from an overmastering
                    brain, and that I dreaded it.
                I did not see him again till he was Archbishop of Westminster and I a married
                    woman with a young child, whom I took to him for his blessing one day when I had
                    to call upon him about the subscriptions got up for poorer French exiles in
                    1870?71. How good and kind he was about it, writing a letter which I took to
                    Lady Lothian. Since then I have always loved him with a full comprehension of
                    the absolute fitness of the choice of Rome; a fitness which everyone was finally
                    compelled to acknowledge before he died. Other priests and bishops have been
                    good, holy, of old English birth, and assimilated to the type of the Vatican,
                    but it was Henry Edward, Cardinal Archbishop, who was then wanted for England,
                    and he seemed by his whole experience and training to be the appointed man.
                Sunday, June 8th, 1890, was his silver Jubilee. He preached in the little
                    Catholic church of St. Edward, Palace Street, Westminster, standing for three?quarters of an hour by the altar rail; his
                    text: “I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life.” After a very few doctrinal words,
                    he fell back on the personal example of Jesus Christ our Lord, talking very
                    simply and plainly to his congregation, saying he had no doubt they were “good,”
                    but were they good? A word not to be forgotten. To his Jubilee he
                    made no allusion whatever; but he did say that he had remembered on the previous
                    day that in this church he had said his first mass, or rather in the poor room
                    which then did duty for a church in that parish. And his first pastoral work had
                    also been in that most poor parish, now totally changed by the building of
                    Victoria Street. He said he had worked with the good Sisters of St. Vincent,
                    some of whom he noticed among the audience this day.
                In his scarlet robes, and with his fine worn face, he was much less terrible than
                    “Dr. Manning of Bayswater” in the black dress of the oblates. I do not think
                    anybody ran away from him in his closing years.
                In the afternoon a goodly gathering took place at Archbishop’s House, and nearly
                    four thousand pounds was given to him for church purposes. As he passed through the crowd, in which every layer
                    of the English world was represented, he bore himself with upright dignity, but
                    his tall figure seemed so frail, and its movement so noiseless, that he might
                    have been taken for a visitant from another world than ours. He took his place
                    on the red daïs, and in thanking the
                    subscribers for their gift, and making a special allusion to those who were
                    absent in Ireland, he spoke of his own great age, and as being conscious that he
                    would soon be called away; and instantly from every corner of the vast room rose
                    an interrupting murmur of men’s and women’s voices, of which the sense was an
                    entreating “No, no!” It was a spontaneous and unconventional cry, which no
                    hearer could forget, and for nineteen months longer it prevailed. On the 14th of
                    January, 1892, the old man who had nobly done his work, and the young man on
                    whom so many hopes were set, passed away almost in the same hour.
                Seldom has any man more completely conquered prejudice than did Cardinal Manning,
                    and in the slight speech to which allusion has been made, he spoke of times when
                    he had felt it his duty to withstand some
                    current of thought popular among his own people, adding, in a tone of intense
                    feeling, “And I bore the reproach.” These words would make a
                    wonderful epitaph for his tomb, for they were like all his utterances,
                    emphatically true. Probably none of the English converts to Roman Catholicism
                    had suffered from interior causes more deeply than he. It used to be said of him
                    that he was an ambitious man, and in the sense in which Pitt and Fox, Gladstone
                    and Beaconsfield, have been ambitious, it was no doubt true. He had taken a
                    great place at Oxford, and was of that stuff of which statesmen are made. How
                    should he not have been ambitious, when he might have been the
                    Becket or the Wolsey of the Church of England? Our country offers great prizes
                    to her worthy sons, and Henry Edward Manning might have been anything he chose.
                    But in 1851 he obeyed the call of conscience, resigned his place and his work,
                    and for fourteen years lived literally in obscurity, like any other ordinary
                    ecclesiastic. As a childless widower, his life had for many years been a lonely
                    one. When he took Catholic orders I believe that a female relative of an older generation kept his house in South Audley
                    Street; and when he went to be head of the Oblates in Bayswater, his position,
                    though important and dignified, was not more so than that of a hundred others.
                    In the ten years during which England passed through the Crimean War and Indian
                    Mutiny, and when the French Alliance was a prominent political factor, Dr.
                    Manning’s name was literally unheard in the outer world. He had lost himself,
                    and his place knew him no more, so far as his Protestant fellow?countrymen were
                    concerned; and when, in 1865, he was made Archbishop of Westminster, a post in
                    which Dr. Wiseman’s genial kindness and literary gifts had greatly succeeded in
                    disarming prejudice, the appointment was greeted with a deep murmur of
                    dissatisfaction, of which perhaps the most reasonable element was the feeling
                    that the honour was due to one of those old English families who had held to
                    their faith through centuries of difficulty. And the new Archbishop was known to
                    be far from conciliating. He had the severity of a Wesley; he turned the ladies
                    out of the choirs; he put down florid church music; he detested theatres, round dances, and the drinking of wine;
                    and, above all, he never tried to soften dogma. A Frenchman might have said of
                    him, “Qu’il etait plus Royaliste que le Roi.” When a young lady had the audacity
                    to tell him, “But, your Eminence, I like going to balls,” his
                    characteristic answer was, “Better not, my child.” His whole
                    leaning was towards counsels of perfection, and he died when he did because he
                    absolutely refused to take stimulants lest his tempted children should thereby
                    feel themselves ever so slightly loosened from their pledge; and for these and
                    other most unpopular causes he “bore the reproach” with a certain pathetic
                    severity. And little by little, year by year, the ascetic old man, who went
                    about on ordinary occasions like “a shabby curate,” won upon his own
                    recalcitrant people, and upon the outer English world. They came to understand
                    his point of view, which was that if a man saw a good thing he was to strive
                    after it utterly regardless of human respect; and if he saw a bad thing he was
                    to fling himself against it; and if it was clear about a text of Scripture it
                    was to be obeyed in all its length and breadth. His natural fastidiousness never stopped him for an
                    instant. To the repentant woman he simply said, “Go and sin no more”; the
                    drunken man he took literally into Archbishop’s House, and set him on his feet
                    again.
                Also, in the later years of his life, when all opposition had faded away in the
                    respect and affection gained by his great qualities, the Cardinal himself
                    softened. In nothing was this more evident than in his widened sympathy with
                    other men and their partial conceptions of Christian faith; but it was a
                    sympathy born of perfect security that none could misunderstand him. When it was
                    a question of the submerged millions, he went down into the arena, and the
                    delicate, fastidious Dr. Manning of former times seemed infused with white light
                    and heat of Christian love.
                I will conclude by a few extracts from a letter written by a witness of the
                    funeral service at the Oratory, who was stationed in the organ loft of the
                    immense church. It begins by an allusion to the lying in state, when the people
                    stood waiting in the streets in a queue half a
                    mile in length.
                “Ah! how I wish you had seen the Cardinal lying
                    in death. There was no pomp of any sort, though the size of the great square
                    rooms draped with black cloth gave a certain external majesty to the scene. He
                    lay on a sloping bier clothed in dark purple, and surrounded by tall green palms
                    and wax lights, severe in beauty, and suggesting one of the older monuments in
                    our Abbey, and his delicate, worn face and calm repose majestic as the bronze
                    image of Margaret of Richmond.
                “And at the Oratory on Thursday the only pomp was the great array of white?robed
                    priests of his diocese, each with a lighted taper. Every man represented a world
                    of work. And there also were gathered representatives of every rank, of every
                    profession, of all the services. But what most moved me were the long minutes
                    when I stood by the temporary porch on the pavement and saw the coffin carried
                    out, and the pall slipped from the polished mahogany as it was placed in the
                    small, low hearse, while the bishops and the clergy stood in a circle with bowed
                    heads. There ensued a long halt in the street, amidst the silent crowd; and it
                    seemed an especially fitting farewell to one who had peculiarly been the people’s priest. It was the last of Henry Edward,
                    one of our four greatest, Gladstone, Tennyson, and the Queen the other corners
                    of the great English Square; but the Cardinal and the Queen are morally first.
                    He stood out as a landmark or a lighthouse in the troubled sea of public life,
                    and on the day of his burial, all over the world, wherever live the
                    English?speaking peoples, from Melbourne to San Francisco, from New York to
                    India, went up the prayers of his fellow?Catholics following the course of the
                    sun. And all the way to the cemetery the three miles of road was lined by the
                    English working?men; they came by the hundred thousand to see that little low
                    hearse pass by, just as by the hundred thousand they had come to see him lying
                    dead. I have been tempted to destroy this letter lest you should think it of
                    intemperate warmth, not thinking as he thought. But impressions of the hour are
                    worth preserving, and what I have sought to convey is this: The man who so died
                    and so was buried was no emissary of an alien power, no head of an ‘Italian
                    Mission.’ He was peculiarly English—nay, even insular—in the severity of his
                    piety, and every man within or without the
                    Oratory Church was almost without exception English. Into the very marrow of the
                    social politics of his time had the English Cardinal penetrated, striving to
                    bring into them the will and words of that only Saviour in whom he believed. And
                    not until Queen Victoria is gathered to her fathers shall we see such an emotion
                    of the popular heart again.”
            
            
            
                CATHERINE BOOTH.
                THE first time I saw Mrs. Booth was at a meeting held to consider the
                    best methods for ameliorating the state of the poor in London. It was held at
                    Mr. Edwards Clifford’s studio in Wigmore Street, over Benham’s shop. The rooms
                    were large, and were filled by an extraordinary number of representative people
                    of all ranks. On the walls were portraits of ultra?refined faces of thoughtful,
                    high?bred women; many will know what type I mean by referring to Ary Scheffer’s
                    well?known portrait of Mrs. Robert Holland. They have ever since mingled
                    inextricably, though in strange contrast, with my memory of Mrs. Booth, whose
                    personal presence was that of Paul.
                I remember the sincere, measured paper read by Miss Maude Stanley, and the
                    declamation of an officer from Portsmouth, and a horrible recital of Russian atrocities given by Lord Radstock.
                    I cannot now remember in what way they were connected in his mind with the
                    condition of the London poor, but all the more ardent Christians approached the
                    question from the standpoint of conversion.
                Then from a seat lying a little way back to the left, and facing a formidable
                    array of countesses, of whom there were said to be six sitting near the one to
                    the other, rose a small, pale, quietly?dressed woman—Mrs. Booth, the wife of a
                    dissenting minister, and comparatively unknown. In later years she made quite
                    another impression upon me, but she was then about five and forty, dressed, so
                    far as I remember, in no particular costume, and she was so closely surrounded
                    by tall, handsomely?dressed women that her physical being seemed to sink into
                    insignificance, only her face shining out with a sort of luminous pallor. Nor
                    was her speech outwardly more impressive than her appearance. She had no graces
                    of acting, no remarkable choice of words; the high?bred faces of the portraits
                    on the walls seemed to ask, “Who is this daughter of the people, whose face is
                    square and simple, whose dress is that of the
                    most modest middle class, who has evidently never even in the most refined way
                    sought for the applause of man?”
                But Mrs. Booth spoke, and with her first few words all possibility
                    of comparison fled from my mind. The poor of London rose up, a piteous, accusing
                    crowd, in those charming rooms; their unutterable sufferings quivered in her
                    voice, and the ardent love with which she regarded the human creatures for whom
                    Christ died shone in her eyes. She told story after story of the back courts and
                    the gutters, of the drunkard snatched from the feet of the kicking horses, of
                    the widow, the orphan child, the convict, the lost women in the street. At this
                    distance of time I can remember very little detail, but when the meeting broke
                    up I made my way through the benches and sat down by her side, and she talked to
                    me of her own children, who as they grew up turned one by one definitely to the
                    Lord and His work.
                I suppose I must have told her that I had young children of my own, for our
                    conversation was wholly on these lines. I remember the lovely expression of face with which she spoke of her
                    two eldest born.
                Years passed before I again saw Mrs. Booth. The Salvation Army had become
                    organized, active, and famous, and I felt a curiosity to see one of the meetings
                    advertised at the door of the hall close to Regent Circus. It was full noon as
                    we went in, and the light shone down on Mrs. Booth standing in the centre of the
                    gallery or estrade from which she spoke. Two or three of her young daughters
                    were with her, and a knot of other workers in the costume since become so
                    familiar in the streets of London. The meeting must have been nearly. over, for
                    I do not remember any word of Mrs. Booth’s, and one of the sweet?faced children
                    led off a hymn. At the conclusion I walked up to the estrade, and said, “Do you
                    remember us? I am so glad to see you again. We are Catholics.” It was an older
                    and, as it seemed to me, a much more assured and vigorous face which smiled down
                    a welcome on mother and child. “Ah!” she said,“ that makes no
                    difference,” and I felt a sort of enveloping kindness and sympathy shining in
                    her eyes. And that was the open secret of the woman who was borne to the grave a few years later amid such an
                    outburst of universal sympathy as has perhaps never been paid to one of her sex
                    before. She had a good and broad intelligence, judging complicated questions
                    with common sense, and was a mental power in the great organization which has
                    struck so deep a root among the working classes. But that which gave her
                    predominant influence was a higher thing, a spiritual quality which inspired her
                    judgment and drew hearts by the hundred and the thousand. It survived on that
                    painful death?bed of more than thirty months’ duration, and thrilled in the
                    messages she sent to her husband’s people. It can only be defined as the power
                    of the saint.
                On two other occasions I witnessed Mrs. Booth’s extraordinary influence. The
                    first was that of the funeral service at Olympia. She had died, of long wasting
                    malady heroically borne, at Clacton?on?Sea, and on Monday, the 13th of October,
                    1890, at eight o’clock in the evening, the coffin was borne from one end to the
                    other of the immense building, into which 36,000 people had crowded, after which
                    it was necessary to close the gates and shut
                    out thousands more. After his wife’s coffin, the General walked alone, followed
                    by his children. It was placed on a raised platform in the gallery, behind which
                    a friend and I were seated, so that the vast audience lay far below us, and the
                    mourning group a little to the right. No single voice could have penetrated the
                    great space of Olympia, and to meet this difficulty a special litany had been
                    prepared, printed, and distributed among the congregation, and large lettered
                    signals were hoisted at intervals on the platform, instructing the audience to
                    rise and sing or to pray. The service began with the old Wesleyan hymn,— 
                        “When I survey the wondrous cross
                        On which the Prince of Glory died,
                        All earthly gain I count but loss,
                        And pour contempt on all beside.”
                     Such a volume of sound can seldom have been heard by human ears. But most
                    touching was the moment when the children of Mrs. Booth, rising above the
                    coffin, sang the hymn which had comforted her when dying. One voice rang sweet
                    and even triumphant above the rest. I was told it was that of the beloved
                        eldest daughter, Catherine Booth, who,
                    after many journeys to her mother’s bedside, was not with her at the last. The
                    scene was indeed indescribably affecting.
                And on the following day the traffic of central London was stopped for two hours
                    in the busiest part of the twenty?four, while “the Army Mother” was carried past
                    the Bank and the Royal Exchange. I can only speak for the subdued reverence of
                    the crowd in that great triangle opposite the Mansion House, but the incident
                    which impressed me most concerned the omnibuses. Long after the cabs and
                    carriages had disappeared from the streets, the Bayswater omnibuses made their
                    way slowly across to one of the railways. But there came a moment when they also
                    were stopped. For that last hour every one of these vehicles carried a black
                    flag, rising above the head of the driver.
                In turning over the two volumes of Mrs. Booth’s life, the reader’s eye is
                    arrested by the mute witness of the photographs. The first, of “Catherine
                    Mumford” at the age of twenty?three, was taken shortly before her marriage. It
                    shows us a thoughtful and intelligent girl, with curls smoothed away from a very broad forehead; the eyes are steady and
                    lambent, and the dress is not only careful but in the fashion of the time. She
                    wears a brooch, a buckle, and a little lace. The costume is simple and modest,
                    but by no means that of a young lady indifferent to her appearance. I compare
                    this portrait with the face of the living woman whom I met about twenty?five
                    years later, and the change was very great. She was then the anxious, devoted
                    mother of many children, and the Salvation Army was already being organized;
                    moreover, she had been sorely tried by illness in her family, and other
                    anxieties, spoken of freely in the Life, had pressed upon her. I remember how
                    frail she looked in 1878, and how everything in the least mundane had dropped
                    away from her dress and manner; how entirely she looked the minister’s wife. But
                    in the early eighties the tide had again turned, and the sweet, matronly
                    countenance of “the Army Mother” under the Salvation Army bonnet, was as
                    reposeful but far more animated than that of the young Catherine Mumford with
                    the curls. Her smile dwelt like sunshine on those whom she addressed. One felt
                        that she must be a lovely mother at home.
                    And there is one more faithful photographic record of that wonderful face, “Mrs.
                    Booth in her last illness.” Once more the softly curling hair is brushed back
                    from the broad forehead, over which sixty years have passed, and a full half
                    century of thought and prayer; and strange to say, though the expression is
                    deeply marked by suffering, it has regained something of youth. The beautiful
                    large eyes are undimmed, and in the intentness of their gaze and the patient
                    stillness of the attitude can be read a touch of final obedience, which goes to
                    the depths of the beholder’s heart. She who did all things well had gathered up
                    her feeble strength to leave a peaceful, comforting last impression on her
                    children near and far.
                It was on a Saturday, the last day of Self?Denial Week, and “the sun was sinking
                    in an almost cloudless sky,” when death released Mrs. Booth from the sick bed on
                    which she had lain for more than two years. But as her death was the very text
                    on which her life was written, the Army Mother survives in a very full and
                    peculiar sense. Whatever may be the future of the Salvation Army, on whatever
                    lines it may develop when the General and his
                    children are called away, and the infinite modifications of time act and react
                    on their special conceptions of faith and duty, the great figure of Catherine
                    Booth must remain as permanent in the history of our race.
            
            
            
                THE MODESTY OF NATURE.
                SOME years ago I wrote and put away certain paragraphs dealing with the
                    knotty question of what constitutes literary decency. A comparison was attempted
                    between the differing standards of Shakespeare, of Zola in his earlier works,
                    and of Ibsen in his dramas, which had then only lately reached the British
                    public. Shakespeare’s plays invariably appeal to the morality which had been
                    taught in Stratford?on?Avon for a thousand years. Truth and honour, chastity and
                    its reverse, have retained in his pages their ancient significance; and his
                    women move across the richly?varied stage not as victims, but as standard
                    bearers—the great majority are high?minded and virtuous, and if they fall they
                    and their male accomplices are invariably brought to punishment.
                Zola and Ibsen use other measuring rods, but of
                    the two, Zola adheres in substance much the more closely to the old canons of
                    right and wrong. In the powerful story of “Thérèse Raquin” the connection
                    between adultery and murder is wrought out with awful precision; and in his
                    other books this great author is driven to paint the truth of things, not
                    merely, as is often said, by coarse epithets describing coarse subjects, but by
                    some intellectual necessity of hunting an evil thing to the bitter end. Once
                    started on the track of a sin or a sinner, Zola seems compelled by the law of
                    his own genius to finally kill them out of the way. Whether the process be
                    intentional or no (a difficult question to decide), Zola and his characters get
                    hopelessly entangled in the laws Of the universe, and thus it is that his novels
                    so closely reflect human life on its seamy side, and are a mine of interest to
                    the mature intellect.
                But the subject is rapidly being sifted upon the plane of the larger literature.
                    It is radically impossible to write a long complex description of human lives
                    without knocking up against the granite walls and the inexorable laws which
                    environ mankind; all novels and plays which attempt to disregard them end by 
                        pro? ducing
                        producing
                     an impression of lunacy on the reader’s mind, for even the phantoms of
                    creative imagination are forced to obey the laws of human life. There is a
                    famous parody in which the ghost of an uncle indignantly claims possession of
                    his own corridor, laying down a law of mine and thine which, in spite of its
                    absurdity, holds good in other matters than a ghost’s own right of patrol.
                The major question will soon settle itself. But while books are long to write and
                    long to read, a guerilla warfare is found easier to handle than an attack by
                    troops of the line—and small darts begin to thicken the air. One well?known
                    gentleman writes to say that it is a sad pity our climate is not that of Fiji,
                    so that we might adopt the charming and poetical costume of the floral wreath
                    only. One can but lament that since— 
                        He might have been a Roosian,
                        He might have been a Proosian,
                        He was (alas! for him
                                )
                                 
                             an Englishman.
                     And another gentleman (a very young one) exhausts the powers of outline to
                    suggest divers aspects of the person who is said in Scripture to sit by the
                    wayside. Originally this fearsome image was
                    sparingly used in pictorial art by Albert Dürer, by Michael Angelo, or by
                    Hogarth; but she now takes the middle of the road. She possesses our walls, our
                    playbills, our chance illustrations; she renders successive articles of costume
                    abominable and ridiculous; of late she has taken to the harmless boa of fifty
                    years ago, and instantly the harmless boa becomes endued with unholy wriggling
                    life. Even more objectionable are her boots.
                And the poems, the neat little poems in four stanzas, stuffed with suggestive
                    metaphors as a bun is stuffed with currants. Evening after evening they appear
                    with inexhaustible fertility, seeming to be evolved from some faint hysterical
                    guitar, so thin and unreal are they. Once on a while a school of poetic gush was
                    squelched by a great author asking at some length— 
                        “Oh! Firmilian, where is Lilian?”
                     Can nobody put an end to the maiden who is eternally being apostrophized by
                    a weeping gentleman, whose tears would fill a bucket; while as for his choice
                    epithets, they remind one of that missing letter which was once said “to lie
                    about the floor.” One really eloquent poem,
                    published a year ago, portrays the hero as breaking his mother’s stiff yet
                    fragile heart, and quickly putting his too conscientious father out of pain. His
                    poetical education is finished by teachers whom we are forced to refrain from
                    describing. And yet the reader cannot afford to laugh, for when the glaring
                    poster is painted and pasted, and the neat little stanzas are winged away on the
                    evening breeze, down comes the ghastly midnight murderer brandishing his cruel
                    knife, and the poem is silenced, and the fantastic, unreal eyes are closed for
                    ever, and the boa is drabbled with the life?blood of the girl who wore it.
                Is it, then, quite in vain to attempt to reach ground?rock on so vital a subject,
                    and to ask ourselves how the historic morality of Christendom, so inseparable
                    from our conception of the older European world, could have been accepted if it
                    be not true? If anyone say it was enforced by the preached doctrine of judgment,
                    we are driven to ask how that doctrine of unerring retribution came to be
                    accepted. We must regard it as appealing to the inner sense of the human heart,
                    and fall back upon the saying of Prospero in
                    “The Tempest,” that there may be “one whose race had that in’t which a
                        good nature cannot abide to be with.”
                Consider how many things fall under this instinctive condemnation. For instance,
                    man “cannot abide” the snake and the alligator, nor the roar of the hungry
                    lions, even when caged. All kinds of decomposition are abhorrent, witness the
                    old expression to “scent danger.” Consider the inner meaning of the word
                    “intolerable,” and the old notion of hair standing on end with horror, and the
                    wide?world superstition of the evil eye. Consider what we mean by nerves, and
                    how, although we know some of their functions, we know nothing of their hourly
                    influence in hatred or in love. As we suffer a deadly fear of that which has not
                    yet come to pass, so have we never reached to the root of that which we cannot
                    abide.
                Volumes might be written upon the value of the discord in music and the grotesque
                    in art. The “devils” of Notre Dame, of which we have been lately hearing, are
                    not devils in the ordinary sense, but subtle emanations from the under world,
                    clinging to the 
                        archi? tecture
                        architecture
                     of the great cathedral whose beauty they enhance.
                They are creatures not yet brought into order, and they have been gradually
                    driven up to the highest gallery of the towers, retreating from the Presence
                    enshrined below; and there they sit, strange and wistful, looking out over the
                    vast city like relics of the pagan world. Of them Victor Hugo has written the
                    most wonderful description in his romance of “Notre Dame de Paris.”
                If it be true that mathematics finally repose upon primary statements which
                    cannot be proved by wit of mortal men—no, not though they be taken in flank, and
                    so worked out in detail that we can build our towers and bridges in full
                    confidence of their innate veracity, it is equally true that morals, and all
                    those questions which lie on the outskirts of morality, also repose on reasoning
                    which in the last resort eludes the intellect of man. St. Paul certainly treats
                    them as axiomatic, and from the loftiest poetry down to the humblest nursery
                    rhyme, bards of all ages have sung in the same sense. The little child who
                    revolts at his bath is asked by mother and nurse, in the words of an ancient
                    poem,—
                
                “What, wish to go dirty?”
                “Not wish to be clean!”
                “No !” says the Teutonic Greek; “no!” says the obstinate child; “I wish to go
                    dirty, and you are a narrow Philistine when you preach up soap!”
                It is difficult for a Christian speaking to Christians to avoid alluding to the
                    positive injunctions of Scripture as regards public and private morals. These
                    injunctions lie at the base of our public law, they have been hitherto on the
                    whole unquestioned, even by the transgressor, but now that a systematic and
                    perfectly conscious effort is being made to deny their inherent truth and
                    validity, we must if possible seek another base of argument. One thing is
                    certain, amongst us the new theorists can only be imitative; by no faintest
                    possibility could the modern artist or poet, made up of 
                        Keltic
                        Celtic
                    , Latin, and Teuton stuff, resemble the Apollo Belvedere or the
                    Antinous. There is no vitality in an imitation, no propagating possibility in a
                    fraud. The woman who sits by the wayside will never be the nursing mother of
                    children; the man who looks through yellow spectacles does not see human life as it really is. Sane human perception
                    is finally sure of its own vindication. The railway signalman who does not know
                    red from green ends by smashing the train.
                We have, most of us, whatever our philosophy, come to agree at least upon this,
                    that the Power which made the human race also makes for righteousness. We don’t
                    know why, but on the whole we do know how. Though the Catechism, except by
                    authoritative assertion, does not help us on this particular point, and the
                    Creed implies a foregone conclusion, the fact is witnessed by the almost
                    consentaneous agreement of thinkers, and by the familiar proverbs of every
                    nation, as one of the deep, undeniable things of God. To say the Contrary is to
                    say an insane thing, and the man or woman who persists on saying insane things
                    will finally do insane deeds: and their last end is nought. If we seek health we
                    are forced to fall back in the last resort upon the morals of the Gospel, not
                    only because they fit the complicated wards of the human lock, but because after
                    a violent recrudescence of low art and low literature, we touch the brink of
                    that sphere which Shakespeare’s Prospero declares “A good nature cannot abide to be with.” The human torch
                    turns blue deprived of vital moral air. In the presence of the power of darkness
                    the human creature surely dies.
                
                    Written in December, 1894.
                
            
            
            
                ON LIVING WELL TO THE FRONT.
                THERE was once a man who dwelt in a garden, and yet continued to live to
                    the front if any mortal ever did; for the name of his garden was Strawberry
                    Hill; and though the voices of most of his contemporaries sound dully in our
                    ears, his is clear enough. So oppressed was he by reason of the gout, and so
                    little did he realize his own proportions, that he actually says, in September,
                    1765, that “When one has a singular turn of mind, and not liant with a new world, one grows unintelligible
                    but to the few contemporaries that rest about one.” He must have been poorly and
                    tired when he wrote that sentence, for it is awkwardly expressed and lacks his
                    usual ease. He goes on to say that his mind has taken in its quantum of
                    feelings, and that he shall live upon the stock and be doubtless very insipid to
                    himself and others. So far, however, was this
                    from being the case, that five?and?twenty years later we find him fascinating
                    two quite young girls, by whom, as they lived into extreme old age, his memory
                    was kept green, and prolonged deep into the reign of Queen Victoria. I once had
                    a book, in two volumes, which I gave to a learned and much gifted friend—it was
                    entitled “Walpoliana,” and came from the private library of Mary Berry.
                Such are some of the benefits of living in a garden.
                But it may be said that Horace Walpole lived, after all, in a suburban garden.
                    True. But every ten miles of that far?gone time was as a hundred now. It took
                    him longer to get to Arlington Street than it would now to travel from Brighton;
                    and the astonishing liveliness of his intellect was really preserved under
                    difficulties which were little less than what one encounters here, fifty miles
                    away, for he had no newspapers to speak of, and was so crippled with his gout or
                    his rheumatism, that he doubts whether he dare sit in the damp by the River
                    Thames, close to which he had made this “nest for his old age.” He doesn’t know
                    whether it is gout or rheumatism, and “hates
                    haggling about obscurities,” a sentiment which makes the modern sufferer smile
                    lugubriously. A rose by any other name will smell as sweet. Do not therefore
                    trouble whether your bones are stiffened by gout or rheumatism, but sit in your
                    garden in as sunny a spot as you can find, and endeavour to keep well to the
                    front.
                And the very words draw my eyes across the old ivy?covered wall to the great
                    trees within whose screen once lived a noble old lady. Her years numbered nearly
                    a century: she had been painted by Opie; she had lost her husband in the year
                    previous to the battle of Waterloo, and he and she had been intimate friends of
                    Louis Philippe while yet he was Duc d’Orleans. When she grew so old that she
                    could no longer drive out to see her neighbours, it is recorded in the village
                    that while she was on the one hand the most pious, the most charitable of women,
                    she yet did not like to fall behind the times; and ordering from London the
                    newest and most fashionable bonnets suited to an aged lady, wore them seated in
                    her splendid drawing?room, where she received her guests.
                
                Perhaps the person who in our modern world lived most to the front through a long
                    life and up to its very end was the lady who was so aptly described by Lord
                    Houghton as a “Poet’s Wife, a Poet’s Mother, herself of many poets the
                    counsellor and friend.” Mrs. Procter’s inexhaustible vitality was a wonder to
                    behold. To a certain extent this was true of her mother, Mrs. Basil Montagu,
                    Carlyle’s “Beautiful Lady.” But the latter was dressed like a picture of
                    splendid stately old age, and recalled a generation alive in 1800; while it
                    seemed as if Mrs. Procter could not grow old. There came a time at last when
                    many of the old habitués were dead or
                    invalided, and then her drawing?room was bright with eager, fashionable
                    Americans. If another decade had brought Chinese society to our very doors, the
                    most travelled mandarins would have found their way to that charming room in the
                    Albert Mansions. She would have found appropriate words wherewith to condole
                    with the New Zealander upon the ruins of London Bridge. She was mentally quite
                    devoid of prejudice, nothing in her ever fossilized. The broad principles upon
                        which her life was based are such as
                    resist the impact of years. Her religion, very silent, never seemed to take on
                    any fashion; and her heart retained its few passions uneffaced by time, or loss,
                    or death. When Carlyle’s posthumous words attacked disrespectfully the household
                    of her stepfather, Basil Montagu, in which she had been brought up, Mrs. Procter
                    sprang to her filial revenge with the alertness of a young Sioux. She said to me
                    with angry scorn, “It is dangerous to war with a dead hand.” And the London
                    world, which had read the attack with silent pain, found itself confronted with
                    Carlyle’s own letters of sixty years ago.
                Of singular vitality was also the intellect of the younger of our two great
                    Cardinals, though more than eighty years had passed over his head. If anyone in
                    the world could be reasonably expected to entrench himself in the ascertained
                    doctrines and secular custom of the Church, it would be a man of strictly
                    clerical training, once a high dignitary of the Church of England, and then for
                    five?and?twenty years a still greater dignitary of the Church of Rome. Added to
                    which, a man of proverbial moderation and
                    reserve, to whom the word enthusiasm would ever have seemed inapplicable. Yet he
                    it was who caught every breath of social change, whether it were for evil or for
                    good. He was awake to every fever of the popular pulse. I once heard him in the
                    Pro?Cathedral give a sermon about the reading of bad books, which was enough to
                    make the readers and hearers shake in their shoes. Be sure that he knew every
                    current of the modern book trade. And so of the sufferings of humanity. Few
                    there are who really understand the sting of poverty, the anguish of the
                    downward plunge, the misery which causes suicide in Paris and in London. But
                    Cardinal Manning did understand these things, and looked at the state of our
                    working classes as Ruskin also looked, though with a far deeper sense of the
                    spiritual loss.
                Yet the son of a rich London merchant, college bred, and surrounded from infancy
                    with all the luxuries and refinements of his father’s rank in life, was the last
                    person to have ever realized by experience what it is to want a meal or, as
                    happened lately to a poor woman in Paris, to borrow the charcoal
                    with which to put an end to mortal existence.
                    Cardinal Manning’s heart and imagination penetrated across the gulf.
                To a similar power of keeping abreast of the times the royal family of England
                    owe their solid place in the affections of the nation, when so many other royal
                    houses have gone down. And the popular sympathy has not been won by concession.
                    No one of the Queen’s children has tucked under his arm the umbrella of the
                    Citizen King. No princess has been sent to Girton, nor any prince to a school
                    equivalent in social degree to a French Lycée.
                    The all?aliveness is deeper than that, and they owe it not merely to the keen,
                    refined intellect of their father, but much more to the essential sympathy of
                    their mother’s heart; which whoever reads intelligently will find rippling
                    through her letters, her journals, and even through the quaint telegrams which
                    she sends flying through her private wire. When a certain popular
                    sold?by?the?million?for?a?penny periodical calls her Majesty “our own Good
                    Gracious One,” the extreme vulgarity of the expression may be pardoned for its
                    wonderful aptness. The slight damage done to
                    “trade” in the first years of the Queen’s sombre widowhood may well be pardoned
                    for the sake of her perpetual expression, couched in vigorous and extremely
                    individual language, of that touch of nature which makes the whole world kin.
                    There are passages in the “Highland Journals,” and notes to the “Life of the
                    Prince Consort,” which will remain firmly embedded in the rich literature of the
                    Victorian Era, and which, if picked up in a bottle on the sea shore in any part
                    of the dominion, would cause a finder of critical faculty to exclaim “Bless me!
                    This must have been written by the Queen!” I remember, in particular, the
                    account of the telegram telling of the death of the Prince Imperial; and the
                    picture of the carriage accident in Scotland; and sundry notes in which her
                    Majesty explains that in her very early girlhood she had preferred to keep her
                    young lover dangling. Elizabeth “swore roundly”: her dear and honourable
                    successor does not swear, but her voice hits straight out and says exactly what
                    she means to say. More than ever in the modern world if you speak at all you
                    must speak plainly, and to a certain extent it
                    must be what people are willing to hear. When Macaulay obtained a Peerage and a
                    fantastic sum for his “History of England,” it was because for one hundred and
                    seventy years the English nation had been educated to Whiggery. Even the Toryism
                    of the day had turned Whig in the persons of Sir Robert Peel and Gladstone.
                But with Beaconsfield the tide turned to Tory Democracy, or rather it should be
                    said that he himself caught the turn of the tide—caught it instinctively, not
                    because he was a courtier, but because he was a poet. Can anyone doubt that the
                    man who wrote “Lothair” would have now been for Federation, and have so written
                    and spoken as to make it a self?evident return to the enchanting and revered
                    Heptarchy? He never would have fossilized had he lived to be a hundred years
                    old.
                It does not suffice that persons should be intellectual, popular, entertaining,
                    to ensure their being to the front. Browning, for instance, was less in touch
                    with his time than Mrs. Procter, and probably less than Lord Tennyson, who
                    seemed to catch instinctively the echo of popular feelings and reflect them in his song. George Eliot
                    certainly lived an intellectually present life; and had she not unfortunately
                    been alienated from the religious thought of her day, she would probably have
                    reflected more than any other writer the collective thought of England. But she
                    had persuaded herself that the problem of historic Christianity was practically
                    extinct. I think that her mind altered slowly on this point, and that had her
                    life been prolonged she would have come to endorse at least the remarkable
                    summing up of John Stuart Mill.
                In France a singular change is taking place, rising up in the very last quarter
                    whence it could be expected, in the ranks of the novelists, who are entering
                    into a passionate controversy for and against the place of Christ in history,
                    nor can any man be said to live to the front in modern England who ignores as
                        “ancien Testament” the eternal question
                    asked at every street corner, “Who will show us any good thing?”
            
            
            
                WHAT TO DO, THEN?
                THAT Count Leo Tolstoi makes his own boots, and gives away parcels of
                    his ancestral land, is known to all cosmopolitan readers. Wherever has spread
                    the fame of his great novels, the story has followed of his personal
                    eccentricities. But the reason is far to seek, and even a careful perusal of the
                    book in which he has embodied it does not render it easy to understand.
                He begins by painting the misery of the poor in Moscow—and more penetrating pages
                    have never been written. Unfortunately, the very poor are perforce dumb
                    creatures. Not the cotter’s son, who becomes a missionary; nor the lad who runs
                    away to become Captain Cook; nor yet the traditional boy with half?a?crown, who
                    comes to London, and sells his cat to the King of Morocco. But the real poor of
                    the slums; or the lowest women, or the convicts at Portland. They are dumb; more dumb than the dog that
                    runs after you, or the cat that rubs itself against your knee. How on earth
                    should they speak! and if they did speak, who on earth could bear to listen?
                    Their language is a very veil. They hide themselves in slang. Fifty years ago
                    Harrison Ainsworth wrote a book called “Jack Sheppard.” And a certain little
                    schoolboy caught up a song from its comparatively harmless pages—for, after all,
                    it was the fancy portrait of a criminal by a man of letters. I can see the
                    nursery fire and the tea table, and the bread and butter spread with fine brown
                    sugar, and hear the little impish voice singing gaily, “In the box of a
                    ‘stone?jug’ I was born.” The little gentleman had not the remotest conception of
                    the reality of which he was singing, any more than his great?nephew, fifty years
                    later, can have of the choice expression, “blooming blazes.” Have we ever really
                    taken it into our minds that the lowest class of all our fellow?creatures have a
                    language of their own—a detritus, not a new growth? It needs a genius to divine
                    and translate it. Count Leo Tolstoi has managed to do it. Whatever be the
                        real state of things in Moscow, he has so
                    described it as to make his readers shudder at the picture, and wonder why in
                    primitive Russia the same things should be reproduced to which we are supposed
                    to be accustomed in Bethnal Green. Siberia and slavery, the convict prison and
                    the knout, the gorgeous court and the communal village—all these are the
                    properties of the Russian mise en scène. But a
                    slum one does not expect.
                And Tolstoi describes, with his accustomed power, many attempts on his part to
                    mend the slums. Being a noble, and a man of great worth and reputation, he
                    persuaded the authorities to help him. And for his pains he got cheated and
                    worried, and the gigantic mass of human misery loomed up before him as big as
                    ever. The pages read like extracts from the diary of Lord Shaftesbury or Mr.
                    Frederick Charrington, with a literary sprinkling of Sir Walter Besant. The more
                    he plunged up against the seething people, the oftener he recoiled worsted.
                    Something could have undoubtedly been done by building a People’s Palace in a
                    bad part of the Russian city. But, after all, only the decent poor would
                    frequent its learned halls, and the poor who
                    have fallen from all sense of decency go on multiplying in its immediate
                    neighbourhood. So the Palace does real good to ten thousand people out of a
                    rough total of three millions, who are either deplorably poor or on the
                    immediate verge of becoming so.
                Tolstoi also confesses that he was inwardly conscious of his own benevolent
                    kindness, and regarded himself with modest approval as a benefactor of the poor.
                    Till, one day, seeing that he made no real way, he suffered a spiritual
                    revolution. It was borne in upon him that it was useless to try and help others,
                    because he was himself a thief! Well, yes, a thief, who had spent his life in
                    thieving. His coat and his cloak—to take the biblical expressions—and his silver
                    cigar?case, and the nicely bound books in his library, and the horse he rode, to
                    say nothing of the lands his father had left him, had all been made by the
                    labour of other people, and, however complicated had been the process of
                    stealing, stolen they were.
                At the first presentation this idea is almost unthinkable. It is so alien to all
                    one’s notions of the relation between capital and labour, so destructive of the
                    sacred principle of saving, of thrift, so
                    absolutely condemned by the first quarter of an hour’s walk in Oxford Street,
                    that the mind refuses to grasp it. After sleeping upon it for a fortnight
                    certain considerations emerge as follows as intended by Tolstoi.
                A man can scarcely make to grow by the actual work of his hands more than he
                    requires for his own sustenance and that of his family. And a woman can scarcely
                    do more in a day than the necessary cooking, washing, and sewing required for
                    the family. If either of them can save a surplus with which to buy somebody
                    else’s labour, it must at first be a tiny surplus; but if by superior cleverness
                    this surplus is made to roll up, it becomes little by little an engine of dire
                    oppression, and ought to be put down by law. It is already forbidden to use your
                    mechanical knowledge in certain directions. You may not race steam carriages
                    through the Strand. You may certainly not invent a machine with claws capable of
                    carrying off all the cats in the country. If, unhappily, you are a giant, even
                    though you were Gog and Magog, it is doubtful whether you would be allowed to
                    contract for the exclusive sweeping of the City streets. Neither, says Tolstoi, ought you to construct that monster,
                    a baby capital—the Frankenstein creation of modern days. When it is in swaddling
                    clothes it will be only equal to opening a small shop, but as it fattens and
                    fattens it will grow big enough to start a store, and presently, when it is
                    quite a grown?up young capital, it will build a mill, and will buy up an army of
                    workers, whom it will enslave almost as if they were blacks, and make them work
                    for it, and at last, like the starling, they “can’t get out.” But mind well, its
                    endings are but the natural growth of its beginnings. You must not save your
                    first shilling with any view to personal aggrandisement. Saved capital is like
                    the imp in the “Lay of the Last Minstrel”—as soon as it can get a voice it will
                    be heard by the attentive ear to be shrieking “Lost, lost, lost!” It is not the
                    offspring of honest labour—it is a devil which has taken its place.
                I have tried to disentangle from Count Tolstoi’s wonderfully eloquent pages the
                    thoughts which logically underlie them. St. Paul will help you to make your own
                    boots, and St. Matthew will forbid you to keep your own coat if anybody wants
                    it. Holy poverty, or, at least, the holding of
                    riches as though you had them not, has been a counsel of Christianity from the
                    very first. But the extremely intricate mechanism of modern industrial life, and
                    the problem of the middlemen and the sweater, require definite thought, if they
                    are touched at all. And the fundamental idea of Tolstoi is that the very first
                    accumulations of capital are wrong.
            
            
            
                WHAT COMES AFTER.
                SINCE, then, we cannot set capital rolling up for our own use without
                    the risk of creating frightful evils, what can we do with it? The old proverb
                    that money breeds money is the text of all the books upon self?help. Two
                    shillings are certain to make twenty?five pence. That little surplus produced by
                    a day’s work overtime, or because my head is better than yours (or vice versâ), is like a stick which will grow
                    thicker and longer till it quadruples the power of the hand which holds it. And
                    it will not remain quadruple; it will increase manifold till, in the hand of a
                    Napoleon, it becomes an engine capable of hunting a million men to their
                    destruction. Consider the pins—how they are made and what is their profit. Look
                    at a steel “J” pen, and remember that this little thing accumulated one of the
                    greatest picture galleries of modern times. We
                    are in the midst of immense forces which it would require a far more powerful
                    brain than mine, or than, I think, Count Tolstoi’s to define. But the thinkers
                    have begun to analyze them, and the artists in merely following Ruskin have
                    begun to paint their doings, and the thoughtful working man is crying out that
                    they are devouring him and his brothers, and that their misdeeds must no longer
                    be.
                Of practical politics in this matter there seem to me to be but two. Some would
                    throw the responsibility of the use of capital upon the State, and some have had
                    faith in a sporadic movement, born of the popular conscience, and directed by a
                    more educated popular thought. It is very difficult to see how the State could
                    become an immense bureau, without frightful dangers occurring from any blow to
                    the central power. In spite of the endless speculations of the Socialists of the
                    type of Louis Blanc, it is plainly Fourier who will win the day. I cannot
                    conceive the method by which all the complicated processes of victualling and
                    clothing London could be organized by a central committee, and London is only
                    one of many cities. Let anyone ascend the dome
                    of St. Paul’s, or stand upon the Shropshire Wrekin, or count for one twelve
                    hours the people passing the sculptured “Griffin” at Temple Bar, or take any
                    other method by which the imagination may be assisted to grasp the vastness of a
                    million units, and I think that State Socialism will be felt to be an
                    intellectual dream. In the army and navy results are obtained by strict
                    coercion—the welfare of the individual is quite a secondary matter. In the
                    French navy two deserters were, not long ago, chained down in the hold; a
                    punishment from which men never recover. A serious State Socialism would require
                    its police and its prisons to control its deserters, and its successes would
                    demand a co?ordination of parts in which no joint or screw or rivet could go
                    wrong.
                But the same objection does not apply to the gradual growth of a Socialistic
                    conscience; and this it is which is really growing, springing up every day in
                    the most unlikely places. The “all things in common” of the early Christians is
                    a doctrine regaining its place in England after centuries of disuse. In the
                    religious Orders private property is
                    deliberately laid aside; the dower of the nun is absorbed in the common fund. In
                    the Salvation Army everything is given up—of the 9000 officers, many of whom are
                    married couples with children, not one has retained any portion of their private
                    property; they are sustained by a common fund, which often runs low and causes
                    privations of a severe kind.
                The old theory of nobility controlled by the mediæval Church, provided for the
                    redistribution of the funds accumulated by the big baron. He had to keep the
                    baroness and the little barons suitably, and in all honour; he had to feed and
                    clothe his men?at?arms. He dined with his servants who sat below the salt; he
                    had his chaplain and his leech; and up to past middle life he was generally
                    bullied by his nurse. In all the old romances and plays a decent baron behaved
                    as such, or otherwise a neighbouring baron came and put an end to him.
                It is only the modern capitalist who is really irresponsible. He may plan and
                    plot and undersell, and if he has only the shrewd wit to maintain strict
                    personal respectability, no one has any claim
                    upon him. He may be a miser in the household; he may live in a flat and marry
                    his cook, or build a suburban palace outside the town where he has heaped up his
                    gold, and support all the local charities. He may keep twenty servants, or hire
                    them in relays like post?horses. He may live entirely on his yacht, like one
                    millionaire who has made the solid earth of the civilized world too hot to hold
                    him; or like another enormously wealthy gentleman who for some years dwelt on
                    the high seas with his neighbour’s wife, being unable by reason of his
                    nationality to pass any divorce court.
                In England, it is true, the possession of immense wealth opens the way to nobler
                    ambitions, but this is only because we have preserved the tattered fragments of
                    the old flag, and they are still worth fighting for. The day may come when the
                    capitalist can sit upon his pile, owning, even in England, no social master, and
                    when his sole object will be to keep his equilibrium on an unstable heap of
                    gold.
                But though this picture be economically conceivable, there are other forces at
                    work which threaten to abolish the cormorant, even as the mediæval baron has been practically abolished; and
                    more rapidly, for the modern sinner is much the worst, and his redeeming points
                    are few. Power of brain and industry he must possess, and tenacious grip; but he
                    appeals to none of the softer feelings or nobler emotions, and if he were got
                    rid of, history would only remember him as a curious phenomenon of trade. Nobody
                    will write romantic memoirs of him—the ruins of his dwelling will
                    appeal to no tourist of the future—nor will the last capitalist be borne to his
                    grave with any tribute of human tears.
            
            
            
                THE DAY AFTER TO?MORROW.
                WHEN the division of profits has been carried as far as it will go, the
                    business world will be confronted with a quite new set of problems, some of
                    which are constantly being thrust forward by the capitalist party, and not
                    without reason. There will no longer be the same inducement to save; the great
                    prizes will be things of the past, the whole machinery of the wealthy world will
                    need re?adjustment. The first?class railway carriages, the state berths in the
                    steamers, the opera boxes on the first tier—these will be the things of the
                    past. Away with the dresses of Worth, and the gorgeous banquets at the Hotel
                    Continental. Carriage horses will no longer look down upon cab horses; there
                    will be no splendid emblazoned carriages and, let us hope, no “growlers”—and be
                    it noted, that this change has already begun. The costly dress of the nobleman in the reign of Elizabeth, where is it now?
                    Who sprinkles precious stones among the crowd, or wears a rapier with a jewelled
                    hilt? The aristocrat is still made to pay for the handle to his name, but his
                    habits are not really more luxurious than those of the rich middle class. The
                    heaping up of wealth on to the person of man is a thing of the past; and if an
                    example of female dress is required, look at the effigy of Queen Elizabeth in
                    the armoury of the Tower—the long robe in which she sits her horse is literally
                    embroidered with pearls, while our present Queen wears no jewels, save such as
                    are affairs of State, and would no more powder her petticoats with jewels than
                    any other lady of her dominions. Neither does the greatest gourmand in
                    Christendom now spend upon meat and drink as did the pagan emperors of Rome.
                But, on the other hand, what an immense accession of average comfort from the
                    effects of combination, and all secured within the last century. What more
                    wonderful than the post, when one can rescue the idea from columns of
                    statistics. I don’t want to know what it brings in to Government, or how far it
                    helps the free breakfast table; but I do think
                    it extraordinary that when I walk up to a slit in an old grey wall just where
                    four roads meet—a lonely country road where the phantoms of fourteen mail
                    coaches drive by in the light of the moon, but where swift bicycles and
                    wandering pedlars now constitute the principal traffic—and when I have dropped
                    into that slit a folded paper with one, or three, or perchance five small
                    pennies mystically attached thereto, the paper flies to Teheran or Yokohama, to
                    the limits of Southern Tasmania, or to Vancouver, the furthest northern boundary
                    attained by Captain Cook. It is an astounding thing, to which we have become
                    only used by daily repetition, and within the memory of living man. The feat has
                    been so changed in conditions that for ease and rapidity it partakes of
                    legerdemain.
                From the somewhat trite example of the penny post, let us look at a much less
                    familiar one—of the victualling of Paris. Such a combination as that of the
                    Bouillons Duval has never been seen since the world began. Duval was the largest
                    butcher in Paris; probably one of the largest butchers in the world. And in
                        1867, at the time of the Great Exhibition,
                    which was the last occasion on which France shone forth in all the glory of the
                    Second Empire, Duval imagined and carried out the giving of dinners to the
                    hungry public, not, indeed, for a penny, but for about a shilling of English
                    money; a dinner of several courses, with some of the delicacies of each season.
                    A little plate of meat, a little plate of vegetables, carefully cooked, a tiny
                    bottle of wine, a custard, or cream, and fruit. All this can be got out of the
                    shilling. If you are fiercely hungry you might make away with two
                    shillings at the Bouillon Duval, The waitresses are neat, respectable women, and
                    these restaurants are in all parts of Paris. Whole vineyards are employed for
                    the supply of their wine. In the matter of little cream cheeses alone,
                    wagon?loads must be brought up by rail. I once went into a fisherman’s cottage
                    at St. Valery?sur?Somme, and saw a room where the fresh shrimps of the morning’s
                    catch lay two feet thick all over the floor. Such a reservoir would be needed
                    for shrimp day at the Bouillon Duval. And it goes without saying that the habit
                    of these dinners has so completely taken
                    possession of the busy business world of Paris that it is very difficult to get
                    a seat at certain hours, and that imitation establishments are starting up all
                    over the city.
                And what is to hinder other men from doing what was done by Duval? He was
                    undoubtedly a genius in his way. The simplicity of his conception has only been
                    equalled by its success. The food has always been in the meadow, the garden, and
                    the sea; the hungry mouths have always been there to eat it. Duval contrived to
                    bring the two together in delicately balanced, ever varying proportions, and
                    there can be no reason why, in the near future, every town in Europe, nay, every
                    village in Europe, should not possess adaptations of the Bouillon which bears
                    his name.
                Then will come a day when young children will no longer be fed on Dutch cheeses,
                    and when cow’s milk will no longer be a luxury difficult of attainment by the
                    infants of the poor.
            
            
            
                A GROUP OF FRENCH FRIENDS.
                
                    THOSE are happy who have been privileged to know men and women of
                        the old French type, showing forth that fine fleur
                            de la civilisation which gave its language and its breeding to
                        the diplomacy of Europe, and which was not only unique in charm, but closely
                        allied to the highest qualities of mind and heart. Two such people, a man
                        and a woman, are still vividly remembered with respect and affection by
                        their younger contemporaries. They were unrelated, but lived in the same
                        village; they were substantially of the same generation, and died within a
                        year of each other. The man was Comte Adolphe de Circourt, the woman
                        Mademoiselle Adelaide de Montgolfier. I will try to draw their portraits as
                        best I can.
                    The Comte de Circourt belonged to a noble family of Lorraine; his ancestors
                        were not wealthy, they possessed neither
                        chateau nor fortified manor, but their lineage went back to the Crusades.
                        His parents were betrothed so long ago as 1792, but the marriage project was
                        broken by the Revolution; the bride’s father and mother were imprisoned, and
                        the bridegroom was engaged in the Royalist army, serving under his relative,
                        General de Viomesnil. The young people did not even meet for many years, but
                        in quieter times the engagement was renewed, and their marriage took place
                        somewhere about 1800. Adolphe de Circourt, their eldest child, was born on
                        the 22nd of September, 1801. The married pair were both literary in their
                        tastes, the father read with delight Bernardin de Saint Pierre and Jean
                        Jacques Rousseau; his wife belonged to one of the old patrician families of
                        Besançon, and was allied to parliamentary circles and the noblesse de la robe. Her education was both
                        serious and learned, she had artistic faculty and painted well. Thus Adolphe
                        de Circourt and his younger brothers received their earliest education from
                        their own father and mother, who had been left by the Revolution poorer in
                        worldly goods than if they had been small
                        shop?keepers. The garden of their little cottage was laid out in fruits,
                        vegetables, and a few flowers; it also contained a small chapel where mass
                        was privately said before the family and certain select neighbours. Adolphe
                        was baptized in this chapel by a proscribed priest, for the parish churches
                        closed by the Revolution were not yet reopened, and there were penalties for
                        celebrating the rites of religion. Their nearest neighbour was an Irish
                        gentleman, a Chevalier de Saint?Louis, and the son of an officer who had
                        fought at Culloden. The first work of art beheld by the little de Circourts
                        was an excellent pastel of Charles Edward, whose pale face appeared to their
                        infant eyes to be that of a hero and a saint! Adolphe de Circourt was a very
                        precocious child. He read with avidity before he was four years old. A
                        priest was called in to teach him Latin, but the child soon knew as much as
                        the priest, and he went on devouring books, and translated a German grammar
                        into Latin at eight years old. As all the little brothers would necessarily
                        have to provide for themselves in the future, the family moved into Besançon
                        in search of education. Their maternal
                        grandmother, Madame de Sauvagney, lived in that town, but they had not for
                        long the comfort of her society; she died within three years, shortly after
                        the death of her son?in?law, and her daughter soon followed her to the
                        grave, leaving the five little boys doubly orphaned. Adolphe was then only
                        eleven years old. They had however an uncle, M. Mareschal de Sauvagney, a
                        former parliamentary councillor, and he proved a good guardian to his
                        sister’s sons.
                    Two of the orphans died in childhood; of the remaining three, Arthur was sent
                        to Saint Cyr, Albert went into the navy, and Adolphe was destined to a legal
                        and administrative career in Paris. He was warmly received by his relative,
                        become Marshal de Viomesnil. The Royalist party were in the ascendant, and
                        young de Circourt, a brilliant scholar and the most correct of men, managed
                        to live on an annual income of fifty pounds, until his appointment in 1822
                        to a post in the Ministry of the Interior, where his salary was £60 a year.
                        In five years he had risen to be sous?chef de
                            bureau, at £180 salary, and two years later he was Chef du
                            Cabinet of the Ministère. But the
                        Revolution of 1830 fell heavily on the brothers, who belonged by every
                        association to the service of the older Bourbon. Poor as they were, Adolphe
                        and Albert resigned their posts; Arthur remained in his regiment. Thus,
                        scanty as are the salaries allotted to the civil servants of France, Comte
                        Adolphe de Circourt found himself in 1830 obliged by his political
                        conscience to renounce his own; and it must have seemed for the moment as if
                        there were no future open for the gifted young man. But in that very same
                        year a great good came to him.
                    In the winter of 1827, he had become acquainted in Paris with two interesting
                        Russian ladies, Madame de Klustine (née
                        Comtesse Tolstoi) and her daughter. The mother was a distinguished woman of
                        the world, but the daughter was unusually cultured, and had already written
                        a remarkable paper upon Russian literature and literary men. This had
                        appeared in the Bibliothèque Universelle without the author’s
                        name, and had been reproduced in several French publications. At the time of
                        their first acquaintance these ladies had been painfully occupied with the disappearance of the eldest son and
                        brother at the Siege of Varna. His body could not be found among the dead,
                        and the mother and sister entertained vague hopes that he might have been
                        taken prisoner. Adolphe de Circourt used his influence in the French Foreign
                        Office to obtain some certain news, and his brother Albert, who was then
                        afloat on the Mediterranean, tried to discover the missing man on the
                        Turkish littoral. At last a letter from the surviving brother came to assure
                        them that the young man was really dead; but the vain search had naturally
                        endeared Adolphe de Circourt to Madame de Klustine, and in 1830 she made no
                        objection to her daughter giving herself and her modest fortune to the
                        almost penniless young Frenchman. In the following year the mother was
                        recalled to Russia by important affairs, and M. de Circourt took his wife to
                        Besançon to make the acquaintance of his relations, where she got on
                        excellently with the guardian uncle and the two aunts. For some years the
                        wedded pair travelled in Italy, Switzerland, and France—they did not fix
                        definitely in Paris till 1837. Then began for them a most interesting life.
                        Madame de Circourt opened her salon to distinguished people of all
                        nationalities; though her husband at first would hardly believe that people
                        would mount to an apartment on a third story, to visit people who were not
                        particularly rich, and were attached to no public office; but he had soon to
                        own that he was mistaken.
                    Under the reign of Louis Philippe the court circle was not socially
                        influential. The rigid piety of Queen Amélie, the strict domestic life led
                        at the Tuileries and at St. Cloud, the death of the Duke of Orleans, and the
                        anxiety felt by the King for his other sons on dangerous service in Africa,
                        and also the recurrent political difficulties of the reign, left a freer
                        field for private social ambition than might otherwise have been possible.
                        The de Circourts lived in the Rue do Saussayes, and the Comtesse appears to
                        have received her friends every day from four to six, and also on Tuesday
                        evenings. She was a most brilliant mistress of a salon; she was great in little notes of special invitation.
                        She was always kind and helpful to distinguished foreigners in Paris, and
                        she took much trouble to help young and unknown talent. For many years after
                        her death, these 
                            cosmo? politan
                            cosmopolitan
                         reunions continued to be remembered and talked of.
                    In the “Life of M. de Circourt,” a series of interesting letters from the
                        historian Sismondi to the Comtesse are given at length. They show Sismondi
                        in a very human light; and of special interest is the one dated 30th
                        September, 1838, in which he laments the death of Madame de Broglie, the
                        daughter of Madame de Staël. He says that during her lifetime he had been
                        chilled by the intense pietistic atmosphere in which she dwelt, and into
                        which he could not follow her; but no sooner was she dead than he felt how
                        much he loved her, how deep was his respect for her virtues, and how great
                        his appreciation of her talents. In politics Sismondi had been a most
                        hopeful philosopher up to the year 1832. It is melancholy to note in his
                        latter letters how keenly he felt, as years went on, the small result of the
                        liberal principles, from which he had hoped so much.
                    Sismondi, who had married an English wife (the sister of Lady Mackintosh and
                        Mrs. Wedgewood), was a moderate Liberal of the most thoughtful type. It was
                        well for him that he did not live to see
                        1848 and the reaction. He died, in 1842, of a lingering illness of which the
                        chief suffering consisted in a growing inability to take nourishment. He
                        compared himself to Count Ugolino, repeating a verse from Dante’s “Inferno,”
                        “Galandi con Sismondi et con Lanfranchi,”’ and adding, “Am I then condemned
                        to die by the same torture as Ugolino, in expiation, after the lapse of five
                        centuries, of the crime of an ancestor?” But these pathetic words, wrung
                        from him by suffering, are in no way the reflection of his honourable,
                        useful, and far from unhappy life.
                    In 1848, Adolphe de Circourt was sent by Lamartine as ambassador to Berlin,
                        and the chapter of his experiences is of much political interest. He became
                        a personal friend of Frederick William the Fourth of Prussia, who took
                        delight in his society. In leaving Berlin, he refused every diplomatic
                        distinction, but three years later the king sent de Circourt his own
                        portrait painted on porcelain, executed at the famous royal manufactory, and
                        wrote an autograph letter assuring his friend that he need not scruple to
                        accept the gift, as it had cost him (the king) nothing but the frame.
                    
                    More interesting, however, to the student of history, is the chapter relating
                        to the Comte de Chambord, of whom de Circourt saw much at Frohsdorf. The
                        Parisian’s wide reading and philosophic habit of mind caused him to have no
                        faith in revolutions, or in unproved political theories of any kind. Not
                        merely because he had inherited Legitimist principles, but because France
                        had been created, moulded, and made great by the secular influences of the
                        old monarchy, did Adolphe de Circourt hold to his king. His point of view
                        was very peculiar and very interesting. As in religion he had always
                        remained a sincere Catholic, of a thoughtful and liberal type, so in
                        politics he was a convinced Royalist in theory, but perfectly capable of
                        analyzing the character of a monarch. One is tempted to say, in reading his
                        reports of conversations with Henri Cinq, that both the men were too
                        reasonable to be able to descend efficiently into the sphere of modern
                        politics. De Circourt gives the impression that Henri held to the White Flag
                        not from romantic obstinacy, but from a reasoned conviction that any attempt
                        to reinstate him on the throne of his ancestors would fail, unless the main
                            principles of historic right were
                        genuinely conceded by France. He did not wish to be a second “Citizen King,”
                        and saw no practical good in the renewing of an experiment which had already
                        signally failed; yet it cannot be denied that by reason of his secluded
                        position at Frohsdorf, he was less aware than was the Comte de Circourt of
                        the immense changes which modern science and industrial development had
                        brought to pass among the nations of Europe. For good or for evil the old
                        habits of mind had passed away, and were replaced by new conceptions of
                        human life. None knew this better than the guest who came from Paris to
                        offer his homage to an exiled king. Of the two high?minded women whose lives
                        were so closely associated with that of the Comte de Chambord, his Italian
                        wife and his aunt, Madame d’Angoulême, Dauphine of France, and daughter of
                        Marie Antoinette, a life?like description is given, and they undoubtedly
                        exercised a permanent influence on the situation.
                    During the first twelve years of the Second Empire, Madame de Circourt
                        continued to receive her friends as usual. In 1856, the year of the Congress
                        of Paris, her rooms were filled with
                        foreign diplomats, although a sad accident had already rendered her an
                        invalid. On a summer evening she had sent her servants away to enjoy
                        themselves at one of the fairs so popular in France, and in sealing a letter
                        the lace strings of her cap caught fire; she was severely burnt on the left
                        side of her neck and shoulders, and the result was a state of suffering
                        which lasted for some eight years, and finally caused her death in 1863; but
                        although chiefly recumbent, she never ceased to entertain her friends. She
                        was only fifty?three when the end came, and her loss made a sad difference
                        to her husband; he gave up his apartment in Paris, and his only home
                        remained the charming house in its large garden called “Les Bruyères” at La
                        Celle Saint Cloud. It was there that for many years I had the honour of well
                        knowing the Comte Adolphe de Circourt, and of listening to that astonishing
                        conversation which no words of mine can adequately describe.
                    It is my conviction that he knew more on various subjects than any man alive.
                        It was a jest in our family to try and find out some unlikely subject on
                        which to question M. de 
                            Cir? court
                            Circourt
                        , in the faint hope that we might catch him tripping. Once we tried
                        the history, lineage, morals, and manners of Prester John. Another time we
                        expressed ignorance of some of the most intimate details of the Reformation
                        in England; on both questions our remark was like the turning on of a golden
                        tap. Some allusion being one day made to Marie Antoinette, M. de Circourt
                        suddenly said, “Do you know why the royal carriage was late in starting for
                        Varennes?” Needless to say that no one present knew why that fatal hour had
                        been lost. He then explained, with the utmost detail, that while the
                        carriage was being packed in the courtyard of the Tuileries, the governess
                        of the royal children, Madame de Toursel, descending the stairs with her
                        young charges, found Louis the Sixteenth painfully exercised in mind as to
                        where she should sit in the great roomy carriage. It was impossible to
                        provide for the usual etiquette, which was so completely a law in the French
                        court that the delay of nearly an hour took place before the matter could be
                        settled. To hear M. de Circourt’s description of the scene, one would have
                        thought he had been on duty that night in
                        the Palace ten years before he was born.
                    The universality of his knowledge was only to be matched by that of his
                        worldly relations. He was as intimate at the Deanery of Westminster as in
                        Legitimist chateaux. He knew the best
                        people in every capital in Europe, and was as familiar with Protestants as
                        with Catholics in Germany, England, Austria, and Italy. His little
                        drawing?room at Les Bruyères was always completely dressed in white, and in
                        summer the fireplace and mantel?shelf were masses of green?growing ivy
                        trained in pots and rising to the ceiling, while on the walls were a few
                        very choice portraits and mementoes of the most remarkable people in Europe,
                        among them several exquisite bronze medallions by David d’Angers. It was the
                        prettiest room imaginable, and marked in every detail by an exquisite
                        refinement of taste. The Comte de Circourt possessed a very delicate and
                        charming face, of which age had not injured the outline. At church he had as
                        an old man the habit of standing during the most solemn parts of the mass,
                        shielding his eyes with his hand, and his
                        attitude was one of profound reverence. It is so that I like best to
                        remember him. He was stricken for death while walking upon the road which
                        crests the hill of La Celle Saint Cloud, and in sight of one of the most
                        beautiful views in the world, looking across the valley of the Seine towards
                        the hills of Normandy. He was found lying alone and unconscious, his hat and
                        stick fallen by his side: whatever were his last thoughts, they were
                        assuredly good and peaceful, as had been his whole life. He was buried in
                        the little cemetery of La Celle Saint Cloud, by the side of his wife; and
                        Madame de Klustine, who had attained a very great age, was within a few days
                        laid within a neighbouring grave, having been spared all knowledge that he
                        who had been to her as a dutiful son for fifty years, had passed away before
                        herself. There are few men of this century of whom it can more truly be
                        said, that in all which he renounced, and in all which he fulfilled, he
                        thoroughly exemplified the meaning of the old proverb “Noblesse oblige.”
                
                
                
                    MADEMOISELLE ADELAIDE DE MONTGOLFIER.
                    NO biography of this very distinguished Frenchwoman has appeared,
                        except a paragraph in a great dictionary, recording her few books by their
                        titles, and giving a wrong date of her birth; not an unimportant matter, as
                        will be seen in the story of her life. She was the only person whom I ever
                        heard speak of the French Revolution as an eye?witness of the smallest fact.
                        This aged lady, who was the closest friend of our family, was born in 1789,
                        and lived to be ninety. She was therefore four years old at the death of
                        Marie Antoinette; but as she lived not in Paris but at Annonay, near Lyons,
                        that which she remembered distinctly was being awakened by men with torches
                        in the middle of the night; men who came searching under her little bed for
                        a hunted priest.
                    
                    The Montgolfiers were very wealthy, important people, who were known to
                        protect the clergy, and their various houses were the scene of frequent
                        domiciliary visits from the revolutionary authorities.
                    Nearly two hundred years ago President Montgolfier was a large paper?maker in
                        Annonay. He received that title as being at the head of some great
                        commercial corporation having its chief centre at Lyons. He had nine
                        children, and lived in patriarchal fashion among his workpeople, and
                        surrounded by relatives. They were all important members of that Tiers Étât
                        of which so little is known in England, and which on its upper level was
                        allied to the noblesse de la robe. Two of
                        President Montgolfier’s sons became famous as joint inventors of the
                        balloon. Their names were Joseph and Etienne, and the latter was the father
                        of Adelaide de Montgolfier. Joseph was the eldest of the two, and must from
                        the first have had a lively mind, for at the age of thirteen he ran away
                        from the College de Tournon, setting out gallantly for the shores of the
                        Mediterranean, intending to live upon shell?fish. Hunger compelled him to stop on the way at a farm in Bas
                        Languedoc, where he was employed to pick mulberry?leaves for the rearing of
                        silk?worms. There his distracted parents found him and sent him back to
                        school.
                    Joseph’s intellectual passion was for calculation and the higher mathematics,
                        and a strong thread of eccentricity ran through his nature. Arrived at
                        manhood he went off to a sort of hermitage, where he lived by fishing, and
                        devoted himself to chemistry.
                    He made with his own hands Prussian blue and many salts needed in
                        manufactures, and peddled them in the Vivarais. At length his wealthy father
                        got him back, and set him to his natural work in the paper fabrique; but he never ceased making
                        experiments and getting into divers schemes and much hot water. Meanwhile
                        his brother Etienne, five years younger, was trained as an architect, and,
                        according to the family tradition, fell upon a translation of one of Dr.
                        Priestley’s works on air; on which he rushed to his wife, saying, “If what
                        this Englishman says is true respecting the relative density and weight of
                        warm and of cold air, we can raise a light machine above the earth.” The two brothers then laid
                        their scientific heads together, probably much troubling the respectable
                        President, and made the splendid invention of which the last word is as yet
                        far from being said.
                    After a first successful trial at Annonay, Etienne, though so much the
                        youngest, was sent on a mission to Paris, where the idea was eagerly caught
                        up by the scientific world, then in full activity previous to the
                        Revolution, and he was invited to send off a balloon from the gardens of
                        Versailles in the presence of the king and queen, and “all the court
                        beside.” The experiment proved a splendid success, and the brothers were
                        offered a patent of nobility, which they refused, unless it were first
                        conferred upon the old President, their father. In 1832, Mademoiselle de
                        Montgolfier and Madame Swanton?Belloc spent a first summer at La Celle St.
                        Cloud, and saw an old woman living in the village who well remembered the
                        fall of that balloon in a neighbouring wood. Some of these particulars are
                        to be found in an article written by Mademoiselle de Montgolfier for the
                            Biographie Universelle in 1821, others she told to me
                        herself.
                    
                    Etienne de Montgolfier did not live to be old. He married a Mademoiselle
                        Brun, who in her early youth had been by some family intrigue made to take
                        the veil. At the age of eighteen she appealed to Rome, and Rome set her
                        free. She became the Madame de Montgolfier who survived her husband so many
                        years that she became legendary in Paris. In the forties a quite fantastic
                        story was set about of a workman finding a very old lady in the street, who
                        said she had forgotten her own name, on which the workman said politely, “Ah, then you must be Madame de Montgolfier,” and
                        straightway took her to her home! She was popularly said to have died at the
                        age of one hundred and twelve, but she really was in all probability a
                        century old, and there is no genuine record of her having failed in mind.
                        She died in 1845, and is buried in our family grave at La Celle. Her husband
                        predeceased her nearly half a century. He was deeply and fatally affected by
                        the tragic events of the French Revolution. He only himself escaped death by
                        the devotion of his workpeople, who hid him in a moment of extreme danger.
                        But his daughter told me that what really shook his health was the death of his dear friend
                        Malesherbes, the defender of Louis the Sixteenth, which took place under
                        peculiarly horrible circumstances. The son?in?law of Malesherbes, the
                        President de Rosambo, imprisoned with him, had been taken away from his side
                        for execution a few days before, and Malesherbes himself on the 22nd of
                        April, 1794, was placed in the same cart as his daughter, Madame de Rosambo,
                        and his granddaughter, Madame de Chateaubriand, and her husband. These had
                        entreated to be allowed to share the same prison as the old man, and their
                        wish had been granted. The young people were first guillotined, then Mme. de
                        Rosambo, and lastly Malesherbes himself. The horror of that day, falling on
                        the vivid, sensitive nature of Etienne de Montgolfier, was never recovered,
                        though he survived for five years. His heart became affected, and he went in
                        1799 to Lyons with his family in search of medical advice. Feeling the
                        approach of death, and “wishing to save his wife and children the sight of
                        his death?bed,” he started to return alone to Annonay, but did not reach his
                        home alive. He died upon the way, at Serrières, on the 2nd of August, 1799, when his little
                        daughter was only ten years old. She survived him for eighty?one years. No
                        stronger proof of hereditary faculty can be cited than the case of Mlle. de
                        Montgolfier. She was so good an artist, so good a writer, and so intelligent
                        an organizer of daily life, that she might have excelled in any special
                        department of activity to which she had devoted herself. At eighty years of
                        age she was still at her easel, still wielding a lively pen, and still
                        practically keeping a very complicated household. She was tiny in person,
                        with a face full of expression, and her most marked characteristic was an
                        extraordinary sensibility, using the word in its highest and best sense. She
                        seemed a human harp on which every influence of nature, and every joy and
                        grief of others played in turn. Her musical faculty had been keen, she wrote
                        poems and set them to music. Her “Melodies du Printemps” were well known in
                        France, and are delicate flowers of fancy. When nearly ninety she was fond
                        of playing one particular air upon the piano; it was a Belgian Carillon, and
                        the touch of her frail fingers seemed to the hearers to produce a
                            wonderful effect of melodies in the
                        upper air, shaken down from high towers upon the children of men.
                    Mlle. de Montgolfier was liberal in politics. She reminded one of the
                        pre?revolutionary thinkers who finally sealed with their blood their
                        devotion to the rights of man; and she scorned to allow the crimes of the
                        ultra party to make her unjust.
                    She preserved a profound silence about religion, but went to Mass every
                        Sunday. If the Gallican element had remained as an influence in French
                        thought, creating a party, it is my impression that she would have been very
                        Gallican, or perhaps a liberal Jansenist.
                    As it was, she said nothing, but accepted the ministrations of an old priest
                        who knew her well and understood her points of view, and she passed away
                            munie des sacraments de l’Eglise. Ten
                        years before her death occurred the Siege of Paris, when she absolutely
                        refused to leave the city, or even the house not far from the Luxembourg
                        where she had lived for forty years; although it was on the south side of
                        Paris and exposed to Prussian bombs sent from the hills in possession of the enemy. It was not
                        far from that orphanage in which eight children were killed in their beds.
                        Every other family in the large dwelling?house shut their apartments and
                        departed, but Mlle. de Montgolfier resolutely stayed on in her flat, with
                        her maid and a young lad for the outdoor service, doubly necessary during
                        the siege, when every pound of food had to be obtained by standing in the
                            queue, and she merely filled a huge
                        bath with water and put it on the landing outside her door “to quench the
                        bombs.” This old Frenchwoman of eighty spent her days for four months of
                        that bitter winter attending an ambulance ever full of wounded soldiers
                        brought in from the sorties, and when the siege was over it was found that
                        Mademoiselle had torn up all her sheets and table?cloths for dressings, and
                        had then taken her own delicate stock of body?linen, so that her maid said
                        tearfully, “Elle ne s’est pas même gardée une seule
                            chemise.” And this extraordinary bravoure which responded to a call of duty like that of some
                        old knight taking down his arms from the wall, was adorned in daily
                        intercourse with a most elaborate courtesy, a perfect politeness, of which the modern world shows no example.
                        If it were at first artificial in the original conception of the Versailles
                        of the seventeenth century, it had become entirely natural to French people
                        of social rank after its adoption by three or four succeeding generations.
                        Educated by a mother who had been young under Louis the Fifteenth, and who
                        had occupied in the Ardêche a great provincial position—brought to Paris
                        when still a child, and accustomed to the conversation and the manners of
                        the choicest cosmopolitan world as the inheritrix of a scientific name—Mlle.
                        de Montgolfier blended in her own person all the best elements of French
                        breeding. The Fairy Godmother had allotted her every gift except that of
                        beauty, and she seems to have early made up her mind not to marry, though
                        suitors were not wanting. The chief interest of a most affectionate heart
                        was her enduring friendship of sixty years with Mme. Swanton?Belloc, whose
                        noble portrait in the Louvre enables this generation to understand the
                        devotion she inspired. To this lady’s children, and particularly to the only
                        son, Mlle. de Montgolfier was a second mother. To the youngest generation she became in her old age the
                        dear “Maman Aide” they will never forget; a gracious figure of the France
                        which has passed away.
                
            
            
            
                THE SHOEMAKER’S STORY.
                THERE are towns in France so associated with coals and cotton that no
                    traveller expects to meet with aught else upon their borders, and it is only as
                    a halting?place breaking the long journey into Belgium that any traveller would
                    naturally spend a night at St. Quintin, unless he were a philanthropist bent
                    upon a visit to the famous cité ouvrière of
                    Guise, known to manufacturing Europe as a twin rival of our own Saltaire. A
                    tourist giving two hours to the town, after a night spent at a railway hotel
                    amid the whistles of the luggage trains on that Great Northern line, sees before
                    him a very wide street, sloping uphill, to the not unpicturesque town. On the
                    right is the cathedral, nearly a mile away; on the left rises the great roof of
                    an old abbey now used as a spinning factory. On the broad pavement are pots and
                    pans, carrots and onions, boots and slippers
                    and wooden shoes; and right in the midst of the thoroughfare, where it spreads
                    out into a wide circle, is a monument; it is large and imposing, and on the top
                    stands a female figure; her head is ornamented with a diadem of battlements, and
                    her right hand rests upon a spinning?wheel; she symbolizes the good town of St.
                    Quintin, the town of spinners; but on either side of her are bas?reliefs of a
                    battlefield commanded by an elderly general in spectacles, and at her back,
                    facing the upper street, is sculptured the haughty inspired head of the “Fou
                    Furieux” Leon Gambetta.
                And this was the short story told by the shoemaker.
                It was the very fag?end of the siege of Paris, and the great city could hold out
                    no longer, and a general effort was ordered to be made of troops fighting all
                    round about, so that the sortie which we now call the Battle of Buzenval, the
                    last sortie from Paris, which took place on the 21st of January, might have a
                    chance of success. And it nearly did have it, for the French were uppermost on
                    that dark winter afternoon, when they were forced to desist by the waning 
                        day? light
                        daylight
                     from pushing on to the Prussian headquarters at Versailles. That was
                    the sortie in which Regnier the artist was killed in his glorious youth. He was
                    a “Prix de Rome,” and all his early works announced a future of unsurpassed
                    success. In that same famous fatal sortie marched a more elderly professor. He
                    was then past forty, the father of many boys, and the very last human being with
                    whom could be associated ideas of bloodshed; from him, as he sits in his velvet
                    cap, may be heard the story of what happened at Buzenval.
                But Buzenval, whenever planned, did not come off till the 21st of January, and by
                    some dismal mistake, or the want of some necessary communication such as was for
                    ever happening in that saddest war, General Faidherbe and his Army of the North
                    turned up at St. Quintin and met the Germans on the 19th, two days too soon. The
                    shoemaker said one could read all about it in any history of the war; so one
                    could, but not so graphically as he told it to me in his shop in the midst of
                    the town. Thus:—
                “The man with the spectacles managed his troops so well, that after fighting all
                        through one day and part of the next, they
                    beat; and this also perpetually happened in the side issues of the war. But
                    then—along that northern railway connecting St. Quintin with Paris, and having
                    started from the occupied zone encircling the besieged city, came up train after
                    train filled with fresh, well?fed Germans. Shriek went the whistles as the men
                    with spiked helmets got out of the carriages and formed. It seemed to the St.
                    Quintin people as if the trains would never have done coming, and by dusk
                    General Faidherbe was beaten back, and the town of St. Quintin was given over to
                    pillage for over two hours.”
                “Pillage! It was said the Germans never pillaged!”
                “Ah, well, this was an open town, and our gendarmes had fought with the regular
                    French troops, which, being an irregular proceeding, was punished by
                    pillage.”
                “And what did the Germans really do?” said the hearer, looking with troubled eyes
                    up the broad, busy street.
                Said the shoemaker, “Luckily for us it was just dark, or matters would have gone
                        much worse. What they did was to run into
                    the cafés and drink the wine, and if they wanted anything, boots for instance,
                    they carried off five or six pairs to be sure of a fit, and so on with
                    clothes—shirts, drawers, and stockings; but it was certainly a great mercy that
                    they rushed round for two hours in the dark, or we should have been much worse
                    off.”
                “And was there a great slaughter on the battle?field outside the town?”
                “Yes, the worst was by the windmill which you can see sculptured on the monument.
                    Altogether I suppose there were from fifteen to twenty thousand killed or
                    wounded.”
                “Alas! mothers’ sons! and all for nothing, absolutely nothing!”
                “And what became of the man in spectacles?”
                “Ah! General Faidherbe is now Commander?in?chief of the Legion of Honour, and
                    lives at the Chancellerie in Paris; but he was so crippled by the rheumatism he
                    caught in all his campings out, that he goes about in a little chair on wheels
                    in which he pushes himself along, you know. You can see him any day.”
                
                Perhaps this was legendary; perhaps Faidherbe did not propel himself along the
                    quays like the crippled artists upon the pavement, but the shoemaker fully
                    believes that he did. What is certain is that he lived for nineteen years
                    longer, bearing, as did so many thousand others, the penalty of broken health as
                    the result of the campaigns of 1870?71.
            
            
            
                A WIDOW INDEED.
                AMONG the moral gains of the last two centuries, is one which has, I
                    think, never been sufficiently counted. We no longer tolerate the deliberate
                    putting an end to human life for any imputed fault in politics or religion. But
                    although we have ceased to commit the atrocity, we are apt to look at the
                    self?sacrifice of the victim through spectacles of enthusiasm which blind us to
                    the tragedy it involved. Sir Thomas More went to his death triumphantly, but
                    what of his orphaned household on the evening of that day? And Lady Rachel
                    Russell stands out in history, a calm figure of devoted resignation, but the
                    truth is that her first letter to Dr. FitzWilliam is hardly endurable to read,
                    and that the gradual calming of her shaken nerve is one of the most touching
                    records left us in our historic past. It is a great lesson for frail humanity to
                        realize that men are capable of inflicting
                    such unwarrantable pain, for what man has done man may do.
                French biographical history supplies us with a companion picture to that of Lady
                    Rachel, and accident placed in my hands the story and the letters, which latter
                    are absolutely unknown in England. The Maréchale?Duchesse de Montmorency, whose
                    real character can with patience be unearthed from the solemn diction of her
                    biographer, and the strange old French of her own letters (a French anterior to
                    that of Corneille and Racine, and not much later than that of the essays of
                    Montaigne), is a figure well worth preserving. The original biography appears to
                    have been published in 1684, sixteen years after her death, and was reprinted in
                    Belgium at the beginning of this century, in 1824. It is probably impossible to
                    find except on some old bookstall, and the antiquity of the story it relates may
                    be imaginatively gauged by the fact that its heroine was a devoted friend of
                    Madame de Sevigné’s grandmother. She is wrapt round in the printed pages by what
                    may be figuratively termed the folds of a Veil of Devotion, under which it
                    becomes a little difficult to realize the figure of the adoring wife of Henri de Montmorency. Nevertheless we will try and
                    discover what the poor young woman was really like, before age and bitter
                    suffering had changed and chastened her almost beyond recognition.
                Maria Felicia des Ursins was an Italian Princess, and the niece of Pope Sixtus
                    the Fifth; she was born in Rome in the year 1600, when Elizabeth was ruling
                    England in her old age, and the prosperous Shakespeare was adored by the
                    play?going people of London. Marie de Medicis had lately left Florence for
                    Paris, to be the second wife of Henri the Fourth; the series of huge pictures
                    constituting Rubens’ historic rhapsody, and now on the walls of the Louvre, show
                    us the veritable form and face of one at least of the principal personages in
                    the following story; the Royal Godmother; the Duchesse de Bracciano, mother of
                    Felicia, was the cousin and intimate friend of Marie de Medicis, and would have
                    accompanied the bride to Paris but for the expected birth of this youngest
                    child. When the little girl was born, the Queen was godmother by proxy, the
                    baptism took place at St. Peter’s, and the baby was, alas! destined to the
                        grandeur which beseemed the cousin of
                    royalty. When she was four years of age she was given up to the Grand Duchess of
                    Tuscany, to be brought up under that lady’s care; her own mother, the Duchess of
                    Bracciano, died three years later. Of her childhood we have a few scanty
                    details—how she once told a lie about some apricots, and was greatly repentant,
                    and how she nearly lost her life from an attack of small?pox; the remedies
                    inflicted by the Florentine doctors were truly horrible, nevertheless Felicia
                    survived them, and at thirteen a marriage was arranged for her by the Queen of
                    France, who betrothed her to Henri, Duc de Montmorency; he was five years older
                    than herself, and the most accomplished of all the young French nobles. He was
                    son and grandson to the two famous Constables de Montmorency, and had indeed
                    been destined by his father for another bride, but the Queen had her own way;
                    she sent the Marquis de Traynel to Florence with his wife to fetch Felicia, and
                    the young Princess was married by proxy.
                As soon as the ceremony was over, her father, the Duc de Bracciano, left secretly
                    for Rome, without bidding the poor little soul
                    good?bye. He wished to spare her the pangs of a farewell of which he knew the
                    probable duration. Of all his many children, Felicia most resembled himself. But
                    her brothers and her eldest married sister remained with her, and also the
                    Princess Orsina, who seems to have been a trifle older than herself.
                With the festivities mingled doubtless many tears, but they were cut short by the
                    arrival of the French ships at Leghorn; and the young Duchess left her native
                    Italy for ever, and, with a suitable train of attendants, set sail for
                    Marseilles, where we learn that she visited several famous churches, and in
                    particular the neighbouring grotto in which Mary Magdalene is said to have dwelt
                    for many years in penitence. At Avignon she was met by her father?in?law, the
                    old Constable de Montmorency, who received her most tenderly, but regretted to
                    find her such a child. He left her on the borders of Dauphiné, to prepare the
                    proper cortège for his son, and Felicia journeyed north, along the roads we know
                    so well, though we now rush past them with lightning speed; and she finally
                    reached Paris some days before the young Duke.
                    Marie de Medicis received her at the New Louvre, in that Pavilion du Roi which
                    had been completed under Henri the Fourth. These noble rooms, long closed, are
                    now shown to the public. The rest of the New Louvre is due to successive reigns.
                    On the day when the young Duke was expected, Felicia took her station at one of
                    the windows (doubtless the great window with the balcony upon the quay which
                    looks across the Seine to Notre Dame and the Sainte Chapelle), and by her side
                    was the Boy?King Louis the Thirteenth, just a year younger than herself. Felicia
                    this day was full of “extraordinary gaiety.” It is the only time we catch the
                    glimpse of a smile enlivening her serious and passionate nature. Presently
                    appeared the procession from Languedoc; a hundred of the best gentlemen of the
                    province riding in splendid coaches, accompanying the extremely handsome young
                    bridegroom, who was not quite twenty years of age; the bride being now in her
                    fifteenth year. She was presented to him by the King, who said, “Here is my
                    cousin. Behold the illustrious Italian. Is she not worthy of you? Are you not
                    satisfied with her?” The Queen?mother also
                    made a pretty speech, and the Duc de Montmorency, godson to the late King (the
                    Grand Henri), replied suitably, as did the old Constable, his father. The young
                    couple were solemnly and suitably married at the Louvre, and the King paid all
                    the expenses of the splendid fête, Felicia being so nearly related to his
                    mother.
                And now began the singular romance which the old?fashioned writer of this
                    biography, evidently a priest of the seventeenth century, finds it difficult to
                    tell in suitably, edifying words, although it is also whimsically evident that
                    his human heart profoundly sympathized with the story he had to tell. Felicia,
                    an exile from her family and her native land, and possessed of a soul naturally
                    yearning towards unusual heights of religious devotion, received Henri de
                    Montmorency as a special gift from heaven, and concentrated upon him all the
                    passionate fervour of her nature. The Bishop of St. Pons, who had known her well
                    at the Court, said of her many years after, that anyone, considering her
                    character as it appeared to those among whom she lived, would never have
                    supposed it possible that she could give her love to any man, had not the evident object of her affection been actually
                    visible in the person of her husband, She seemed to him, and to others,
                    predestined to a life of prayer and good works, had not Henri de Montmorency
                    intervened. It is a little difficult to translate the good bishop’s thought
                    fully into common English, but it probably contained more than a kernel of
                    truth. No children blessed the union, and she prayed incessantly for the heir
                    that did not come, her husband consoling her by saying that if he had had a boy,
                    he must have taken much more pains to save his money. Montmorency from the first
                    regarded her with the highest esteem and admiration, but for some years he did
                    not give her unmixed satisfaction. Her biographer treats this delicate subject
                    with great reserve, saying that “he always loved her, but did not always love
                    her only,” and that nevertheless his distractions were only “reprehensible
                    amusements.” Felicia, under these troubled circumstances, showed unusual sense
                    and courage for so young a wife. However much she was tormented by a natural
                    jealousy, she exercised complete exterior self?control, and at last literally
                    conquered by prayer “this dear husband
                        (époux), whom alone she loved, and whose
                    entire affection she herself desired.” And when at last Montmorency finally
                    repented of his evil doings, he seasoned his repentance with a mild jest,
                    saying, “My heart! if you cannot forget the past, think when you remember it,
                    that if I had been better you would have shown less piety, for how many of your
                    prayers would have then been left unsaid!” But he told everybody, especially the
                    Court, that he owed his conversion to his wife, and that then, and in the
                    future, she was the only woman for him.
                It is impossible to understand the old French biographies without recognizing the
                    double current of human passion and intense spiritual devotion. It meets the
                    reader at every turn—sin and conviction of sin; failure and redress; the woman
                    who leads “a youth of pleasure” not ending by “an old age of cards,” but on her
                    knees in some convent; the man turning right round, and changing his ways in
                    obedience to a call. French history is full of it. In Felicia’s young days we
                    are told that she managed to lead a quiet life in Paris, even in the midst of
                    “tumult and agitations.” Henri was there—“she saw him, she possessed him, she was happy.” When he was
                    obliged to go to Languedoc to his government, she returned to Chantilly, “that
                    she might think more freely about him and pray for his preservation.” When he
                    was seized with a contagious fever, she rushed down to Languedoc to nurse him,
                    and here she had what she considered a distinct answer to prayer. One night,
                    when he seemed to be sinking from hour to hour, the Duchess went into a cabinet
                    adjacent to his room, and falling on her knees, cried, “My God! my God! wilt
                    thou take him from me?” and hardly had the words left her lips, than an unknown
                    voice replied very distinctly, “No, not now” (non pas
                        pour cette fois).
                The Marquis de Portés, a friend who had braved the contagious fever, tried to
                    prevent her re?entering the room. He believed the Duke to be at the very moment
                    of death, and he held out the will, probably as a sign that all was over. She
                    brushed past the Marquis, saying that her husband would not die. She hushed the
                    prayers for the dying which were being recited round his bed, and in an hour the
                    Duke awoke as if from a profound sleep.
                
                And now how shall the rest of the story be told? I pass over the many details of
                    the way in which Felicia dealt with the immense complicated household of the
                    great Seigneur. How she kept the gentlemen in check and ruled the gentlewomen,
                    and did constant acts of charity; and how from the age of nineteen her health
                    became very delicate, and how she never allowed scandal to be talked in her
                    presence, and how the young King said he wished all the young Court ladies were
                    as modest as Mme. de Montmorency. The portrait is stippled in with many
                    words.
                And as this is a short story of the wife and not of the husband, I will not enter
                    into the politics of the troubled time further than to explain their effect on
                    the Duke’s career. He continued to be Governor of Languedoc, and she to do the
                    social honours of that great position for some years longer.
                In 1629 she was obliged to leave him and take the long, fatiguing journey to
                    Paris, that she might hold her nephew, the young Prince de Conti, at the
                    baptismal font. The godfather was Cardinal Richelieu. After the ceremony a great
                    fête was held at the Hôtel de 
                        Mont? morency
                        Montmorency
                    , attended by the King and all the great nobility. It was still a
                    youthful Court; the Duchess, whose age marched with the century, was just
                    nine?and?twenty, the King was eight?and?twenty, and her husband thirty?four.
                A small war was now got up by the French king against Piedmont and Savoy, in
                    which Montmorency is said to have covered himself with glory by his feats in the
                    field; and Louis, who had accompanied his army, wrote to the Queen?mother that
                    Montmorency had not only won a battle, but had wounded the Italian Prince Doria,
                    making him prisoner, and had also taken nineteen flags. All this so terrified
                    Felicia, that she persuaded the King to recall her husband from the war, and the
                    latter promised her that he would so organize the government of Languedoc as to
                    live more in Paris, and also at Chantilly, where he now began to spend great
                    sums of money over that splendid château which was eventually destroyed at the
                    French Revolution, and which in our own days was rebuilt by the Duc d’Aumale.
                    But vain were all these projects, evil days were coming on the Montmorencys,
                    concerning which I find in the old book a most
                    extraordinary prophecy, which at the time was kept carefully from the Duchess by
                    all concerned.
                The Duke, passing through Avignon with Marshal de Schomberg, was told of a holy
                    monk who when at his prayers was seen to be elevated above the ground. There is
                    a well?known picture in the Louvre of a similar occurrence, in which the monk is
                    represented as peeling carrots in the convent kitchen while engaged meanwhile in
                    interior prayer. The two nobles went to the convent at Avignon, saw the monk
                    hovering in the air, and tried to kiss his feet. Marshal de Schomberg was
                    allowed to perform the act of homage, but when Montmorency approached, the feet
                    were withdrawn from his lips, at which he was greatly alarmed, supposing that
                    the hindrance could only be accounted for by some forgotten sin on his own part.
                    But on being interrogated by the superior of the convent, the monk replied that
                    he could not allow his feet to be kissed by “a man predestined so soon to enter
                    into the glory of the saints.” The reply was carefully kept secret from the
                    subject of the prophecy, and remained untold until after his death.
                
                This journey to the South of France was the last undertaken by the hapless man;
                    his wife had insisted on accompanying him, but when she reached Beziers, a town
                    not far from Montpellier, she fell violently ill with acute rheumatism, which
                    was attributed to her having, when lately in Lyons, spent her nights at her
                    window, watching for the couriers, during the anxieties of the Italian War. And
                    what was worse and more alarming was the intelligence that Gaston of Orleans,
                    the King’s rebellious brother, had returned to France from the Spanish
                    Netherlands. The quarrel was a complicated one; Marie de Medicis sided with her
                    younger son, and Richelieu with the King; Richelieu’s chief object being to
                    lower the influence of the great feudal nobles; and, as is well known, he
                    succeeded in giving to the monarchy that fatal supremacy which long afterwards
                    was one great source of the Revolution. It was sorely against his wife’s wish
                    that Montmorency took the side of Gaston, and it is difficult to understand how
                    he can have so utterly miscalculated. Ill as she was, she put forth her whole
                    strength to induce him to change his mind, but in vain. One night he pacified her by going to bed in an adjoining room,
                    after wishing her a tender good?night, but he presently got up softly and
                    secretly, and went off to meet the conspirators. On another occasion after he
                    had so deceived her, she insisted on leaving her sick?bed three times, and had
                    herself carried into his room. to see if he were safe, and each time she found
                    him there; his hour had not yet come; and the third time she besought him in the
                    tenderest way to give up his designs, which she assured him “he could not carry
                    out without causing her death of grief.” He wept and caressed and cajoled her,
                    but she saw through him only too well. No other human being was now anything to
                    him but his wife Felicia, yet not even for her would he renounce his ambition.
                    On the 24th of August, 1632, he came for the last time and sat by her bedside;
                    he told her he hoped finally to reconcile Gaston with the King, talked of things
                    he meant to do on his return, and told her that he felt sure of success. The
                    poor woman could do nothing and could say no more; she could only weep upon her
                    pillow, and when Henri had at last got out of the room he was so agonized
                        that he fainted away. He was afterwards
                    heard praying amidst his sobs—praying for his wife’s temporal welfare and for
                    the safety of his own soul, “que mon salut eternel ne perisse point avec ma
                    vie.” And he was gone.
                The end came very quickly. In one of the first engagements with the troops of the
                    King, Montmorency received eighteen wounds and was taken prisoner. It may be
                    thought it would have been happier for him if he had died on the field of
                    battle, and assuredly to Felicia it would have been a far lesser shock; but the
                    intervening weeks gave him the opportunity of making a singularly pious and
                    resigned end. When the écuyer sent by his
                    unhappy wife came to his bedside, the surgeons were dressing his wounds, and
                    Montmorency said, “Tell your mistress how numerous and how severe are the wounds
                    you have beheld, and assure her that which I have caused to her heart is the
                    cruellest of all to me.” And he wrote this letter with his own hands:—
                “MY HEART,—I have been singularly consoled by the sight of Maurins. I had already
                    written what the surgeons thought of my wounds. I assure you that they are
                    exactly as he will 
                        de? scribe them to you, and the
                            sharpest pain I feel in my unhappy condition is the thought of your
                            grief. Arise above it for the love of me, I beseech you, since I was not
                            killed, and God does all for the best. Adieu. Je
                                suis tout votre.
                        describe
                    
                “MONTMORENCY.”
                The next page contains a curious and pathetic record of how the poor Duchess was
                    tossed backwards and forwards in the throes of a heart and conscience almost too
                    delicate for this world’s work. She refused to attempt to corrupt the guards,
                    and she gives a strange hint of wishing to fly into Italy and let it be thought
                    she was dead; she seems to have imagined that if Montmorency was supposed to be
                    a widower his life might be saved by a royal alliance, but she knew that this
                    would be a sinful thing to do. Somebody suggested recourse to witchcraft, and
                    the possible help of the devil, but to this also Felicia turned a deaf ear; she
                    would not risk her husband’s soul for his temporal safety. At last his friends
                    determined to try and save him without letting the Duchess know their ways and
                    means; they were foiled, because he was so weakened by the loss of blood as to
                    be constantly fainting away, and it was impossible to make any plans involving personal exertion on the
                    part of the prisoner. All this is very obscurely told, for when the biography
                    was originally put together only fifty?two years had elapsed since the
                    catastrophe, and it is probable that some of the people concerned were still
                    alive. In the meantime the different members of the royal family, and many of
                    the great nobility, tried hard to save Montmorency, and the wretched Gaston, who
                    had been the tempter and caused all the misery, implored the clemency of the
                    King, but in vain. Louis the Thirteenth, inspired by Richelieu, left the Duke to
                    be tried by the parliament of Languedoc, “according to the laws of the State,”
                    which meant death. The prisoner pleaded guilty, was at once condemned, and
                    turned every thought of his heart to the ordinances of his religion. He died
                    with perfect courage and resignation, at the age of thirty?seven; supremely dear
                    to one poor woman’s heart, dear to his sister the Princess de Condé, dear to
                    France, which regarded him as a national hero, and regretted by the whole of
                    Europe in an age when Europe was more vitally united than she is now. This is
                    his last letter to his wife:—
                
                “MY DEAR HEART,—I bid you a last farewell with an affection as deep as that which
                    has always been between us. I conjure you by the repose of my soul, which I
                    trust will soon be in heaven, to accept this affliction from the gentle hand of
                    our Saviour. I have received such graces from His goodness that you can feel
                    that you have every subject of consolation. Adieu once again, my dear heart.
                    MONTMORENCY.”
                The intelligence that the execution had taken place was brought to Felicia by two
                    Capuchin fathers, who were reluctantly persuaded to precede the government
                    commissioners. They entered her room in profound silence and found her sitting
                    in a passion of tears; but no sooner did she see them than she suddenly became
                    quiet, saying afterwards that she felt as if Almighty God had seized her in a
                    firm grasp, “and as one whom another was tightly holding to avoid any
                    possibility of motion,” and she then and there made three resolutions, firstly
                    to embrace the religious life as soon as she was free to do so, secondly to
                    follow strictly step by step whatever appeared to be the will of God, thirdly to make a sacrifice of every feeling of
                    resentment; and when, as she interiorly uttered this last promise, the
                    remembrance of a gesture of her fatal enemy Cardinal Richelieu rushed into her
                    mind, she heard a voice saying imperiously, “Je veux que
                        cela meure aujourd’hui.”
                Madame de Montmorency survived her husband for thirty?four years, but though she
                    was nearly sixty before she was able to carry out her desire of taking the veil,
                    her life was so associated with the order of the Visitation that it is difficult
                    to describe it in a manner interesting to the general reader. She was for some
                    time kept in a kind of royal imprisonment in the Château of Moulins, where her
                    brother the Père des Ursins, a bare?footed Carmelite, came to visit her, and
                    when at last she was set free by the King’s decree, she made up her mind not to
                    leave that town. Her brother stayed with her for two months, and was to her an
                    immense consolation; with his approval she acquired a large house next door to
                    the Convent of Saint Marie de Moulins and obtained permission to open a door of
                    communication. Here she kept up a large household of retainers suitable to her
                    rank, and though she lived personally
                    according to a strict religious rule, she was obliged to keep up much
                    intercourse with the outer world. Anne of Austria wrote her a very affectionate
                    letter, and Gaston wrote her another which cost her many bitter tears. He told
                    her he was coming to see her, and she consented to receive him. In this she
                    strictly obeyed her husband’s dying injunctions to pardon the direct and
                    indirect authors of his condemnation.
                Ten years after her husband’s death, Louis the Thirteenth passed through Moulins,
                    and Madame de Montmorency, who was in church with the nuns, heard the drums and
                    trumpets which announced the arrival of the King, and wept at the sound, but had
                    the self?command to continue quietly saying her prayers. Both the King and
                    Richelieu sent a messenger to the woman whose earthly happiness they had ruined.
                    She spoke to both of these, saying to the first, “Sir, I beg of you to tell the
                    King that I have been much surprised that his Majesty yet remembers such an
                    unhappy creature, and one so unworthy of the honour.” And to the second
                    messenger she said, “Sir, you will say if you please to your master that my
                    tears speak for me, and that I am his very
                    humble servant,” but neither the King nor Richelieu dared to present themselves
                    before her. And when on the 4th of the December of that same year she received
                    the news of the death of Richelieu, she opened the letter and read it in perfect
                    silence. She then folded up the letter, telling none but the Superior of the
                    news which it contained, and as soon as the hour of recreation was ended and she
                    had returned to her own rooms, she made up several rolls of money, which she
                    sent round to the different churches of the town and ordered Masses to be said
                    for the repose of her enemy’s soul.
                Madame de Montmorency caused a wonderfully beautiful tomb to be erected over her
                    husband many years after his death; and she obtained permission to have his
                    coffin brought from the South of France to Moulins. It was opened in the
                    presence of officers sent by her, who found his body embalmed and in the same
                    state as when first he was laid in the grave. It was borne through France in a
                    chariot covered with a great pall of black velvet, and drawn by eight horses in
                    funeral trappings. The Queen had written to the Duchess to beg her that this
                        should be done very quietly, and the
                    cortège avoided passing through any of the great towns of Languedoc; but in
                    Limousin, one of his old friends, M. Soudheilles, seeing it approach near to one
                    of his estates, called together the nobility of the neighbouring country, who
                    went out in a procession to meet it. It was brought into Moulins at night and
                    the coffin laid where the splendid monument can be seen to this day.¹
                Madame de Montmorency was a seer of visions, and quite convinced that her Henri
                    appeared to her three separate times, to her immense consolation. At one moment
                    she made the sacrifice of all the letters he had ever written to her except
                    those dated from prison. She wished to forget the too poignant sense of loss.
                    She was an old woman of sixty?six when she was called to rejoin him in perfect
                    faith. I trust that the story of her life?long grief, and the way in which she
                    bore it, may not be without some interest to the modern world.
                ¹ This monument was
                    spared at the Revolution, as having been erected in honour of a man put to death
                    by a king.
            
            Printed by Gilbert & Rivington, Ld., St. John’s House,
                Clerkenwell.
        
    
