
     ----CITATION----
        Lee, Vernon (1856-1935). Miss Brown, Volume 3. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 333 bytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (4-Feb-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7109
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    MISS BROWN
                    A NOVEL
                
                BY VERNON LEE AUTHOR OF ‘EUPHORION,’ ‘BELCARO,’
                    ETC.
                IN THREE VOLUMES
                VOL. III.
                
                    WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS
                    EDINBURGH AND LONDON
                
                MDCCLXXXIV
                All Rights Reserved
            
        
        
        
            
                BOOK VII.
                (Continued)
                
                MISS BROWN.
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    WHILE Anne was being indoctrinated with her cousin’s philosophical
                        theories, Hamlin had little by little let himself be drawn into the little
                        clique of more mystical and Bohemian pre?Raphaelites whom Edmund Lewis had
                        collected round Madame Elaguine. The old?fashioned, long?established
                        æsthetes, who believed that artistic salvation resided solely in themselves
                        and their kith and kin, and who strangely muddled together the theories of
                        an esoteric school and the prejudice of the untravelled Briton, decidedly
                        set their face against Madame Elaguine. They had not liked Anne Brown because she was not sufficiently engaging;
                        but they thoroughly hated Sacha Elaguine because she was too
                        fascinating.
                    “A nasty, ignorant, frivolous little woman,” said Mrs Spencer, who was the
                        spokeswoman of the party; “a woman with no sense of responsibility whatever.
                        Did you hear the way in which she spoke of those horrible French painters?
                        That she actually dared to talk to papa about that Monsieur Page, vulgar,
                        base creature that he is!”
                    And the older people, and the women of the æsthetic world—the spinsters with
                        dishevelled locks and overflowing hearts, who kept little garlanded lamps
                        before the photographs of puny English painters and booted and red?shirted
                        American poets, all agreed with her. But the younger men merely laughed, and
                        neglected the solemn, smut?engrained parlours of Bloomsbury, the chilly,
                        ascetic studios of Hampstead, for Madame Elaguine’s curious, disorderly,
                        charming house in Kensington—the house patched up with old lodging?house furniture and all manner of Eastern stuffs
                        and brocades, crowded with a woman’s nick?nacks, strewn with French novels
                        and poems, and redolent of cigarettes and Russian perfumes. For there was in
                        this delicate, nervous little creature, eaten up with love of excitement,
                        something which acted as a spell upon most men; and it was curious to see
                        how she managed to make them all in love with her, and at the same time
                        excite no jealousy.
                    “Do you think Circe’s pigs were jealous of each other?” asked Mrs Spencer,
                        when this peculiarity was pointed out to her by Chough. “Reduce people to a
                        certain level, and they will be satisfied with equality.”
                    Lewis explained it as being due to Madame Elaguine’s magnetic power. Whether
                        the Russian had been fully converted to his spiritualistic theories, or,
                        indeed, whether it was possible to make her believe seriously in anything,
                        it is impossible to say. But she had caught the spiritualistic infection
                        from Lewis as a tinder catches fire. Nothing in the world could suit her better: spiritualism appealed to
                        her love of excitement and mystery, to an idealistic and mystical strain
                        which made her hanker after strange supersensuous contacts and occult
                        affinities; moreover, if ever there was a woman of whom one might believe
                        that she could vibrate with disembodied passion, and come in contact with an
                        uncorporeal world, it was this emaciated, nervous, hysterical creature, who
                        lived off coffee and cigarettes, and lived, as it seemed, only with her
                        restless mind, and not at all with her frail, incapable body.
                    “I feel sometimes,” she would say to her friends, “as if I mixed with the
                        living as smoke mingles with air—seeing them move before me, but unable to
                        clutch them or be clutched by them, coming in contact only with their
                        passions. I feel as if I could more easily live with the dead—mix more
                        easily with them. It is terrible. I sometimes fancy that I shall fall in
                        love with some dead creature, and my life be sucked away by him,”—and she
                        gave a little shudder.
                    
                    Cosmo Chough listened spell?bound with admiration, twisting and untwisting
                        his long black whiskers. What a woman was this! And he ruminated over a new
                        chapter of his Triumph of Womanhood, of which Sacha Elaguine—“Sacha quite
                        short,” as she bade her friends call her—should be the heroine.
                    Edmund Lewis smiled his sensual lazy smile, which one knew that he imagined
                        to be the prototype of the cruel and lustful mysterious smile of the men and
                        women, and creatures neither one nor the other or both, who came from
                        beneath his fantastic pencil.
                    “Has it never occurred to you,” he said, in his luscious voice, stooping over
                        Madame Elaguine’s chair, “that you may rather be a dead creature yourself—a
                        vampire come to suck out some one’s life?blood?”
                    “Confound that Lewis!” thought Chough. “Why must such ideas occur to him, a
                        mere damned painter, and not to me, who am a poet?” and he made a note of
                        the vampire.
                    Hamlin was standing by, smoking his 
                            cigar? ette
                            cigarette
                         sullenly. He did not like these sort of liberties which Lewis took
                        with his cousin; he had even of late warned her that, although his friend
                        was an excellent fellow, too great intimacy with him might prove
                        disagreeable to her.
                    “What a carrion?feeding fancy you have, Lewis!” he exclaimed, frowning. “One
                        would think you lived on corpses, in order to be more in harmony with those
                        beasts of spirits of yours.”
                    Lewis laughed triumphantly; but Madame Elaguine, to his amazement, cut him
                        short by saying—
                    “Your idea may be very amusing, Mr Lewis; but I don’t think it is exactly the
                        style of thing for a man to say to a woman.”
                    Lewis, who was never abashed, merely raised his eyebrows.
                    “I thought you were superior to your sex,” he answered.
                    “If Lewis dare to talk to you like that,” whispered Hamlin to Sacha, “I shall
                        horsewhip him one of these days.”
                    
                    Madame Elaguine pressed his fingers in her little hot hand.
                    “You are good,” she answered, in what was like the buzz of a gnat, but
                        infinitely caressing; “but poor Lewis means no harm: he is very bon enfant. You are too pure and proud to
                        understand other men. Ah, Anne is a happy woman!”
                    The last words were scarcely more than a little sigh to herself; but Hamlin
                        caught them, and reddened.
                    “Anne is very cold,” he said briefly; then added, as if to justify himself in
                        his own eyes—“I suppose all very passionate natures are.”
                    Sacha shook her little thin childish head.
                    “Oh no—not all.”
                    Miss Brown went but rarely to the house of Hamlin’s cousin. She was extremely
                        sorry for the poor little woman’s misfortunes; and asking herself what she
                        would have been had she had Madame Elaguine’s past, she often admired how
                        the Russian had kept her independence and self?respect, and serenity and
                            cheerfulness. Yet, while she believed
                        herself fully to appreciate Sacha, and invariably defended her against the
                        jealous prudery of Mrs Spencer and her clique, Anne somehow felt no desire
                        to see much of her. She set it down to her own narrowness and coldness of
                        temper. “I am too one?sided to have friends,” she used to say to Mary Leigh;
                        “I feel that I don’t do justice enough to people, however much I try, and
                        that my heart does not go out to meet them enough. I think I would do my
                        best for them; but I can’t love them or be loved.”
                    Poor Mary Leigh was silent. Anne—this beautiful noble, distant, somewhat
                        inscrutable Anne—was the idol of the enthusiastic Irish girl. She had often
                        longed to tell her so; she longed, at this moment, to put her arms round
                        Anne’s neck, and say quite quietly—“I love you, Anne;” but she had not the
                        courage. How much may this sort of cowardice, called reticence, cheat people
                        of? The knowledge that there is a loving heart near one, that there is a
                        creature whom one can trust, that the world
                        is not a desert,—all this might be given, but is not. And the other regrets,
                        perhaps throughout life, that word which remained unspoken, that kiss which
                        remained ungiven, and would have been as the draught of water to the wearied
                        traveller.
                    Anyhow Anne, while thinking that she liked Madame Elaguine, somehow did not
                        care to see much of her. What she could do for her she did willingly. Madame
                        Elaguine wanted the child to learn English, but made a fuss about letting
                        her have a governess.
                    “My child’s mind must be my own mind,” she said. But as she went on grieving
                        at little Helen’s ignorance, and her own incapacity, from want of schooling
                        and want of strength, to teach her, Anne offered to teach the child together
                        with the little Chough girls, who were still her pupils. Madame Elaguine was
                        rapturously grateful; but Helen was so completely spoilt, that she could be
                        brought to Anne only when she fancied it herself, and Anne found her so
                        demoralised that she really did not like to
                        bring her in contact with the Choughs. “When poor little Helen is ten, then
                        you must moralise her,” Madame Elaguine would say; and Helen was within week
                        of being ten, and Anne, much as she disliked asking Madame Elaguine
                        anything, urged that she should begin to be taught. Moreover, Anne’s time
                        was too much taken up reading under Richard Brown’s directions, and her
                        thoughts were too much preoccupied to make her feel at all sociable, even
                        had she not felt an instinctive repugnance to the sort of company, headed by
                        Edmund Lewis, which she knew she would meet at Madame Elaguine’s.
                    However, one evening she could not refuse Sacha’s invitation, more especially
                        as the latter, evidently to please Anne, had invited her friends the two
                        Leighs. It was a grand spiritualistic séance. Madame Elaguine was in great excitement, and Edmund
                        Lewis was radiant. But Hamlin looked bored and pressed.
                    “I hate all this vulgar twaddle of 
                            spiritual? ism
                            spiritualism
                        ,” he said impatiently to Anne. Anne loathed it: the triviality
                        disgusted her, the giving up of one’s will to another revolted her, and she
                        could not understand how a woman could endure to be handled and breathed
                        upon by a man like Lewis. Mary Leigh was half excited and half amused;
                        Marjory, the strong?minded scoffer, had determined to unmask some sort of
                        trickery. The séance, to which Edmund
                        Lewis had brought a famous professional medium, was very much like any other
                            séance: a darkened room, a company of
                        people partly excited, partly bored; expectation, disappointment, faith,
                        incredulity; moving of tables and rapping, faint music, half visible
                        hands.
                    “The whole boxful, machinery complete, all the newest tricks, eighteenpence,”
                        as little Thaddy O’Reilly fiippantly remarked to Anne. How could Madame
                        Elaguine have patience with such rubbish? wondered Miss Brown. What
                        excitement could that excitement?loving little woman, with a real mystery in
                        her own life, find in all this stale shibboleth?
                    
                    “You can’t think what a strange, delightful sensation I have at these
                        moments,” said Sacha to Hamlin, as her little soft hand touched his. “I seem
                        to feel the whole current of your life streaming through me, and mingling
                        with mine. It is like an additional sense. Do you understand that,
                        Anne?”
                    “No,” answered Anne, briefly. “I feel Mr Hamlin’s fingers touching mine, and
                        that’s all.”
                    Hamlin somehow admired Anne’s answer; he was glad it was so,—had she felt
                        like his cousin, something would have spoilt in an ideal of his; and yet
                        Anne’s coldness annoyed him.
                    “The spirits are reluctant; there are too many sceptics in the room,” said
                        Edmund Lewis, angrily. “Great as is the power of some of us—as, for
                        instance, of Madame Elaguine—I feel that there is something acting as a
                        non?conductor,—some very chilly nature here.”
                    But nevertheless, when the company was giving up the séance as spoilt, mysterious sounds were heard, and something
                        luminous, which was immediately identified as a pair of spirit?hands, was seen to float over the
                        table.
                    “Spirit?hands!” whispered Edmund Lewis.
                    “Wash?leather gloves painted over with luminous paint,” whispered Thaddy
                        O’Reilly.
                    “A wreath!” whispered Madame Elaguine.
                    Something round, like a wreath, did seem to float, supported by the
                        spirit?hands. Some said it was oak, others cypress, others myrtle; but it
                        soon became apparent that it was bay.
                    “For Hamlin!” whispered the guests to each other.
                    The wreath floated unsteadily over the heads of the party; but, as it passed
                        Marjory Leigh, that evil?minded young materialist quickly snatched at it,
                        but it was whisked away by the indignant spirits. There was a murmur of
                        indignation; but indignation turned into triumph when suddenly the wreath
                        reappeared, and hovered for two good minutes over Hamlin’s head. There was a
                        cry of admiration, and Madame Elaguine clapped her hands.
                    
                    But Marjory Leigh struck a light, and lit the candle by her side. She could
                        see faintly the excited faces all round, and among them the pale face of
                        Anne Brown, scornful and angry, fixed upon that of Hamlin, who was flushed,
                        hesitating, surprised.
                    “I am glad the spirits have such good taste in poetry,” said Marjory Leigh,
                        quietly; “but it is a pity that they should not have crowned Mr Hamlin, like
                        Petrarch and Corinne, with real laurels.” And she stretched out something in
                        the palm of her hand. Every one crowded round, and took it up by turns.
                    It was a leaf, torn and broken, of green laurel which she had pulled off when
                        the crown had passed over her; but the green laurels were masses of stamped
                        paper, and left a green stain in the hand.
                    “It does smack a little of a French pensionnat de
                            demoiselles distribution of prizes; you will get the little
                        book dorésur tranches, ‘Avec l’approbation
                        de Monseigneur l’Archevêque de Tours,’ and ‘Prix décerné à M. Walter 
                            Ham? lin
                            Hamlin
                        ,’ written inside, at the next séance,” cried Thaddy O’Reilly. “Well, it is consoling to see
                        how our beloved dead keep up the simple habits of the living.”
                    There was a titter. Madame Elaguine burst out laughing. Hamlin laughed, but
                        he looked black as thunder.
                    “You brought that piece of green paper with you!” cried Lewis furiously at
                        Marjory Leigh. “You brought it to insult and delude us! It is
                        disgraceful.”
                    “My dear Lewis,” said Thaddy O’Reilly, gently, “remember that you are still a
                        gentleman, and not yet a spirit.”
                    “Had I known that there was to be any crowning, I should certainly have
                        brought something better than paper laurels,” said Marjory, fiercely. “I
                        never thought spirits were reduced to such expedients as these.”
                    The séance came to an end. The lamps were
                        lit. The medium dismissed with considerable contumely. Edmund Lewis went
                        away in a huff; and Madame Elaguine, who
                        cared in spiritualism only for those strange thrills which she had before
                        described, laughed a great deal about the matter, and settled down to make
                        music with Cosmo Chough.
                    Hamlin looked as if he wished himself a thousand miles away. He would speak
                        with no one; he was angry with his cousin for having let him in for such a
                        ridiculous scene, and angry with the rest of the company for having
                        witnessed it; he had no command over his looks; and while Madame Elaguine’s
                        curious, warm, childish voice throbbed passionately through Schumann’s
                        songs, or while people took their tea and talked, he sat aside, in the
                        doorway of the next room, like a whipped child.
                    “What a baby Walter is!” whispered Madame Elaguine, laughing, to Chough.
                    But Anne did not laugh. She felt the humiliation not of the paper laurels,
                        but of that radiant look which she had seen in Hamlin when the lights had
                        first been lit. And she was indignant with Hamlin for 
                            tak? ing
                            taking
                         this ridiculous business so tragically, and at the same time sorry
                        for his poor, wounded, unsympathised?with vanity. She left the piano, where
                        she had been sitting near Sacha, and went to him where he sat disconsolately
                        looking over a heap of newspapers in the next room.
                    She did not allude to the scene. What use was it chiding him? He could never
                        understand. She talked to him about the picture which he was painting, about
                        the people, anything to make him feel that she was sorry for him. Hamlin was
                        bitter against his friends; he began once more his tirades against modern
                        art and poetry, its lifelessness and weakness; he again declared himself
                        longing for a different life; he again, passionately and delicately, called
                        upon Anne, in his veiled way, to redeem him. Anne listened sadly. She knew
                        it all so well by heart, this vain talk which was to be the daily bread of
                        her soul.
                    Suddenly Hamlin’s eye fell upon Marjory
                        Leigh, who was seated talking with Thaddy O’Reilly in the recess of a
                        window.
                    “I wonder you can endure that girl, Miss Brown!” he cried, “much less make
                        her your friend.”
                    “Marjory may sometimes be rude, and it was perhaps not very good manners to
                        interrupt the séance as she did, although
                        I quite sympathise with her; but she is a capital girl, and just one of the
                        most trustworthy persons I know.”
                    “She is a humbug!” exclaimed Hamlin, crossly and violently. “Doesn’t she set
                        up for philanthropy, and self?sacrifice, and all that? and then she goes to
                        parties dressed in that way—a fit beginning for the wife of an East End
                        curate, for a man like Harry Collett!”
                    “Marjory’s dress does not cost more than Harry Collett’s coats,” answered
                        Anne, quietly. “You men never understand such things, and think because a
                        girl’s dress is showy that it is expensive. Of course Marjory doesn’t wear
                        æsthetic things, and it would be absurd if she did; but I happen to know that she made that
                        particular dress entirely with her own hands.”
                    “I know nothing about the dress, except that a wife of Harry Collett’s should
                        not go about like a peacock. But I do know,” cried Hamlin, fiercely, “that
                        it is disgraceful for a girl engaged to marry, and to marry a man like
                        Harry, to sit the whole evening in a corner, letting a jackanapes like
                        O’Reilly make love to her.”
                    “Marjory has been sitting with Mr O’Reilly only about ten minutes,” answered
                        Anne, indignantly, “and she has known him ever since they were babies. I
                        think it is too ridiculous if a girl can’t talk to a young man at a party
                        without being treated as if she were committing an infidelity.”
                    “I don’t say that any other girl talking to any other young man is to blame,”
                        said Hamlin, still hotly; “but I say that a woman who can let O’Reilly flirt
                        with her throughout the evening is no wife for Collett; and I have a good mind to write and tell him so,” and Hamlin
                        looked dignified.
                    Anne did not answer at first. She was filled with contempt for this vain
                        childish ill?humour, which was taking the proportions of rabid hatred.
                    “Marjory is my friend,” she at last said, “and I think that the less you talk
                        such nonsense as about writing to Mr Collett, the better.”
                    “I will, upon my word!” exclaimed Hamlin. “Marjory Leigh is a friend of
                        yours, but she is an infamous flirt all the same!”
                    “Why does Mr Hamlin glare at me like that?” asked Marjory of Anne a little
                        later. “One would think it was my fault that the spirits crowned him with
                        paper laurels and not with bay?leaves.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    ANNE had forgotten all about the séance, when, about a week later, Mary Leigh arrived at
                        Hammersmith in a state of extreme excitement.
                    “What is the matter, Mary?” asked Anne, wondering at her flushed face, which
                        was usually so quiet.
                    “Nothing—nothing,” said Mary Leigh, looking impatiently at some visitors who
                        were present. “I spoilt two copper plates this morning, and shall have no
                        etchings worth exhibiting. I suppose that has put me out of sorts.”
                    But the visitors had scarcely turned their backs, when Mary Leigh turned
                        suddenly towards Miss Brown.
                    
                    “Oh Anne dear, a dreadful, shameful thing has happened! and I have come to
                        you to know what it means, because I can’t help thinking that Mr Hamlin has
                        had something to do with it, and poor Marjory is so miserable.”
                    “What is it?” asked Anne, a vague terror coming over her.
                    “Why, Marjory got this letter to?day from Harry Collett; he has been staying
                        with his mother at Wotton for the last week. Read it, and you will
                        understand.”
                    Miss Brown took the letter, evidently much pulled about and read and re?read,
                        from Mary Leigh, and smoothed it out and read it slowly; while her friend
                        sat by, looking anxiously at her face.
                    The letter was from Marjory’s intended. Harry Collett told her, with a
                        dignity and gentleness, a desire not to hurt the one who had hurt him, and
                        an incapacity of hiding his great pain, which nearly made Anne cry, that his
                        eyes had at length been opened to the undesirableness of a 
                            mar? riage
                            marriage
                         which, however much wished for by him, could not satisfy all the
                        claims of a nature llke Marjory’s.
                    “Much as I have looked forward to our marriage,” wrote poor Harry, “I could
                        not possibly be happy if I suspected that it did not give you everything
                        which you have a right to require from life. I thank God for having sent me
                        a warning in time, for having let me understand what your generosity and my
                        infatuation would have hidden to me—namely, that your thoughts have, despite
                        your will, turned elsewhere; that your nature requires a life of greater
                        cheerfulness and variety than I could hope to give it. And, indeed, I am
                        beginning also to understand that I was trying to reconcile the
                        irreconcilable—that a man who has elected a life among the poor, has no
                        right to share its privations with any one, much less with any one dear to
                        him; and I see that I was on the verge of committing the sin of sacrificing
                        your happiness to my vocation, or rather to my unmanly desire to have the hardness of my vocation sweetened at
                        your expense. Please do not fancy that I think at all badly of you; I think
                        badly only of my own blindness.”
                    But the poor curate’s angelic nature could not resist the temptation of a
                        fling at his supposed rival.
                    “I am only surprised—but my surprise may be due to my ignorance,” he added,
                        “at the person who engrosses your thoughts. I should never have thought you
                        could seriously care for a shallow creature like O’Reilly. I wish you to be
                        happy, but I fear you will not be solidly happy with him.”
                    “Do you understand?” cried Mary Leigh, impatiently; “some one has written to
                        Harry some horrid lies about Marjory and Thaddy O’Reilly. Oh, I think it is
                        too shameful! Marjory, who has not seen Thaddy O’Reilly more than twice in
                        the last six months; and,” added Mary Leigh, with an agony in her voice, “I
                        fear—oh, I fear—Anne, that it must have been Mr Hamlin who did it.”
                    
                    Anne did not look up from the letter. She was very white, and her face full
                        of shame.
                    “I fear it must,” she answered, half audibly.
                    “But what is the meaning of it?” cried Mary. “What can Mr Hamlin know about
                        the matter? Why, he scarcely ever sees Marjory. I don’t believe he had seen
                        her for nearly six weeks before that party at Madame Elaguine’s. Oh, Anne,
                        do you think it is Madame Elaguine, that horrid little Russian, who did
                        it?”
                    “Oh no,” answered Anne, quickly, “I know Sacha Elaguine has not done it; I
                        don’t believe she is capable of doing it.”
                    “Then you think? . . .”
                    “I fear—I fear Mr Hamlin did it.”
                    There was a dead silence. Poor Mary Leigh was torn by her indignation for her
                        sister, and her pain at the shame cast upon her admired Hamlin, and through
                        him upon her adored Anne.
                    “What can I do? If only I knew the grounds of the accusation,” she said 
                            desper? ately
                            desperately
                        , “I know I could explain them away to Harry. I know that Marjory
                        could, but she won’t.”
                    “Has Marjory not answered Mr Collett?”
                    Mary Leigh shook her head.
                    “Marjory is too proud and self?willed. She is disgusted with Harry. She won’t
                        hear his name mentioned; it is useless. Oh, it is dreadful to see people who
                        care for each other so much separated in this way, by a mere vile groundless
                        calumny, which one cannot even refute.”
                    Anne passed her hand across her forehead.
                    “Mr Hamlin has done it,” she said slowly, and with an effort, “and he must
                        undo it.”
                    “How can one make him undo such a thing?” cried Mary,
                        hopelessly.
                    “I will tell him that he was wrong, and make him write to Harry Collett.”
                    “Oh Annie dear, you are good”—and Mary Leigh threw herself on Anne’s
                        neck—“for I know how dreadful, how terrible it must be for you to tell him
                        that he has acted badly.”
                    
                    “It is not the first time,” answered Anne, mournfully. “Leave me the letter,
                        will you, Mary dear?”
                    Mary Leigh left the letter with Miss Brown; and that evening, as Anne was
                        sitting with Hamlin after dinner, she suddenly dashed into the subject.
                    “Do you remember saying, the other night, at your cousin’s, that you would
                        write to Harry Collett about the flirtation which you took it upon yourself
                        to imagine between Marjory Leigh and Mr O’Reilly?” asked Anne.
                    Hamlin looked puzzled.
                    “I remember something or other,” he said evasively.
                    “Did you write to Harry Collett?”
                    “I had occasion to write to Collett about some books I had left at Wotton,
                        and which I wanted him to bring up to town on his return.”
                    “But did you mention about Marjory and Mr O’Reilly?”
                    
                    “I may have”—Hamlin spoke absently—“yes, I suppose I did. What of it?”
                    “What of it?” cried Anne, indignantly; “why, this much, that you have made
                        two people perfectly miserable, and that Marjory’s marriage with Mr Collett
                        is broken off,” and she handed him the letter.
                    Hamlin looked at it with an air of puzzled indifference.
                    “I don’t understand what it’s all about,” he said, coolly and serenely,
                        returning the letter to Anne.
                    “Then you did not say anything about Marjory to Mr Collett?”
                    “Yes—I did—I certainly think I did. I can’t exactly remember what it was. You
                        know how one writes letters; one forgets the next day.”
                    Anne looked at him with wonder. So after having, momentarily at least, made
                        two people as unhappy as was well possible, this was how he took the
                        revelation of the results of his doings.
                    
                    “Mr Hamlin,” said Anne, sternly, “you know that you never believed that
                        Marjory Leigh was really flirting with O’Reilly; and you know that you wrote
                        to Harry Collett, and made him believe that she cared for another man.”
                    “I don’t know anything about Miss Leigh’s doings. I remember noticing her
                        talking very assiduously that evening with Thaddy. Perhaps it was all fancy
                        of mine; I have no doubt it was. I just mentioned it to Collett as I might
                        mention anything else. I never dreamed that it would annoy him.”
                    “You thought it would merely annoy her?” asked Anne, reproachfully.
                    “I really know nothing about the matter. I’m not responsible for what I may
                        have thought or written a week ago, much less for all these complications,
                        which I never dreamed of.”
                    “Did you suppose, then, that Harry Collett would be utterly indifferent to
                        being given to understand that Marjory cared for another man, and was not the fit wife for an East End
                        curate, as you expressed it?”
                    “I don’t know. I wrote, and thought no more about it. If they have gone and
                        quarrelled about it, I’m very sorry—and that’s all I can say.”
                    Hamlin’s tone was bored and slightly impatient. He had evidently not the
                        smallest shame or regret for what he had done.
                    “Since you are sorry—since you did write that to Collett,” said
                        Anne, trying to speak as gently as possible—“you will, I trust, do what you
                        can to repair this mischief. Marjory Leigh is too indignant with Harry to
                        answer him at all. Will you write to him and tell him that it was all a
                        mistake—all owing to your having been annoyed with Marjory on account of
                        that laurel crown business—and that there was no foundation for all you
                        said? You will make amends, won’t you? Do write at once.”
                    Hamlin had risen from his seat, and his face had taken a curious obstinate
                        look.
                    
                    “I’m very sorry I can’t obey you, Miss Brown,” he said, “but it appears to me
                        that you wish me to write myself down a liar. If these people choose to fall
                        out because of a word of mine, I see no reason to apologise. It is their
                        concern, not mine.”
                    “Was it your concern to write to Collett, then? Was it your concern to take
                        such a responsibility?”
                    “Every one may write whatever passes through his head. I thought Miss Leigh a
                        flirt last week; I don’t now. As to responsibilities, I repudiate such
                        things.”
                    “No one can repudiate such things,” cried Anne. “You have done mischief, and
                        with a few strokes of the pen you can repair it. Oh, you must write, Mr
                        Hamlin—you must.”
                    “If I write,” answered Hamlin, hotly, “I shall just tell Collett that I
                            do think Miss Leigh a flirt. I cannot refuse to write, but
                        I refuse to eat my words. Have you paper and a pen?”
                    
                    He had gone to Anne’s writing?table. Anne put her arm over it.
                    “You have told a falsehood once, you shall not tell it twice,” she said.
                    “I said that merely to show you how impossible your request was. After all,
                        my dear Miss Brown, a man does owe something to himself and to his name, and
                        there is such a thing as proper pride.”
                    “Is there?” answered Anne, and the words were like drops of freezing water.
                        “I thought,” she added, the remembrance of what he had answered when she had
                        entreated him not to slander himself in those sonnets “Desire,” “that your
                        school considered it legitimate for a man to say that he had committed no
                        matter what baseness, even those which he had not. But I see,” and Anne’s
                        indignation blazed up, “that you want sometimes to be considered wicked, but
                        that you succeed only in being mean.”
                    “I think that is a little hard upon me,” he answered mournfully and bitterly,
                        and left the room. He was thinking of all
                        he had done for Anne—all that he had done and left undone.
                    Anne remained seated, looking into the fire, for some moments. Then she went
                        to her desk and took paper and an envelope.
                    “DEAR MR COLLETT,” she wrote slowly, “Mary Leigh has just shown me your
                        letter to Marjory, which has greatly shocked and grieved me. As I know that
                        the person who misled you about Marjory and Mr O’Reilly, between whom there
                        has never been a shadow of a flirtation, is Mr Hamlin, I feel bound to tell
                        you, not only that to my knowledge Marjory has not seen Mr O’Reilly except
                        once since your departure; but also, as having been present on the occasion
                        of the supposed flirtation, that Mr Hamlin imagined the flirtation, and
                        wrote to you about it merely because he was in an ill temper, and because
                        Marjory had annoyed him that evening by detecting a fraud in the
                        spiritualistic séance in which we were
                        engaged. Mr Hamlin has himself just told me that he does not any longer believe in the flirtation,
                        and had no notion of creating any mischief. So, as he is not writing to you
                        himself, I feel bound to tell you the real state of affairs, and I trust you
                        will immediately let Marjory know that your suspicions were groundless, as
                        she is very unhappy, and indignant with your letter.—Believe me, dear Mr
                        Collett, yours sincerely, ANNE BROWN.”
                    Anne stopped several times in course of writing, and read and re?read her
                        letter. Hamlin had refused to make amends; well, she must make them for him:
                        the matter was simple, and it was Anne’s character, whenever she saw the
                        right course, to take it without hesitation, however painful to her. Like
                        many very honest and firm people, she had something destructive in her
                        temper; she could, as Sacha Elaguine had said, sacrifice herself and others
                        with a sort of sullen savage satisfaction. It was a humiliation for Hamlin,
                        but he had deserved it; it was a bitter humiliation for herself, but her debt of gratitude towards Hamlin forced
                        her to take the consequences of the bad that was in him as well as the good.
                        To admit that Hamlin had, from mere womanish ill?temper, calumniated a
                        friend, wantonly and thoughtlessly made two loving natures mistrust each
                        other, and that he had then refused to repair the mischief of his own
                        making,—this was intolerably bitter to Anne; still it had to be done. She
                        put the letter on the hall table, and bade the servant post it without
                        delay. Then she felt the full ignominy of the matter; and her whole nature
                        recoiled from Hamlin’s. Nay, it did not recoil; there was no reality to
                        shrink from. Anne no longer felt horror as she had done when he had given
                        her that poem about Cold Fremley; she rccognised that his fault was
                        negative, that his moral evil was moral nullity—the utter incapacity in this
                        man, who had acted so chivalrously towards her, of perceiving when he was
                        doing a mean thing. And the thought that she would be chained for ever to
                        the side of a man whose whole nature was
                        merely æsthetic, who was wholly without moral nerves or moral muscles,
                        filled her with despair.
                    The next day, Hamlin sent word that he had to go and see some pictures at
                        Oxford, and would be away for two days. Anne felt a vague hope that he was
                        ashamed of himself. Madame Elaguine called, and with her came Cosmo Chough.
                        The conversation, to Miss Brown’s annoyance, turned upon the spiritualistic
                            séance of the previous week.
                    “What a fool Walter is!” exclaimed Sacha. “Fancy his moping in a corner
                        because the spirits crowned him with paper laurels! I can’t understand a man
                        not having more brass, not putting a better face on things. But Walter is a
                        curious creature: in many respects he is not a man but a child. He has seen
                        a great deal of life, and yet in many things he is like a girl of
                        fifteen.”
                    “Mr Hamlin,” said Anne, evasively, “has an essentially artistic nature; the
                        realities of the world don’t appeal much to him.”
                    
                    “Unless an artist feel the realities of the world,” said Madame Elaguine,
                        eating some of the petals of the roses that were at her elbow, “his art will
                        be very thin. Life must stain the artist with its colours, or his art will
                        be tintless.”
                    Anne had often said those same words to herself; yet somehow she knew that in
                        Sacha Elaguine’s mouth they had a different meaning; and she felt it, when,
                        with her curious, half?childlike, and yet infinitely conscious smile, she
                        turned to Chough.
                    “Don’t you think so, Signor Cosmo?”
                    Cosmo Chough pretended that he understood, as he always did, whenever he
                        thought that passion and the Eternal Feminine were in question; he tightened
                        his black moustachioed lips into a long grimace, and bowed in deferential
                        agreement.
                    “Of course,” said the little man, sticking his single eye?glass in his eye,
                        “we all know that our friend Hamlin will never get out of life all that
                        perfume, that narcotic and bitter?sweet
                        fiavour, which some other men taste, to be poisoned for ever, with their
                        first mouthful of honey. Hamlin is, in some respects, a little more and a
                        little less than a man.”
                    “A goose, in short,” laughed Sacha.
                    “He is, purely and simply, an artist. Passions, senses, all the things which
                        belong to other men’s personality, belong to him only as factors of his art.
                        And this is perhaps not to be regretted, but to be rejoiced in. There is
                        terrible danger of the artist being swallowed up by the man. Of the poets
                        whom God sends on earth, two?thirds are lost to mankind: their passions,
                        which should be merely so many means of communication between their soul and
                        the universe, eat them up; or rather they feed themselves on what should
                        become the world’s honey. And even of those who are not lost entirely, how
                        many are there not whose lives are engulfed by passions; to whom, alas! what
                        they sing is but the wretched shadow of what they feel!” And Chough sighed,
                        and fixed his eyes on his lacquered
                        boot?tips, as much as to intimate that he, who lived on mutton?chops and
                        spent his life nursing an epileptic wife, was of that Caliph Vathek
                        kind.
                    Madame Elaguine laughed; but Chough thought it was at Hamlin, and
                        frowned.
                    “Herein lies Hamlin’s advantage; he is the pure artist. And, mark me,” he
                        said, looking fiercely around him, “he is none the worse for that. No,
                        rather the better. I know no man to compare with Hamlin as a mere person; to
                        compare with him not merely in genius, but in kindliness of temper, in
                        purity of soul, in delicacy of thoughts. He is not merely a great artist,
                        but a work of art; he is like a picture of Sir Galahad vivified, or like a
                        sonnet of Dante turned into flesh—and I think Miss Brown will agree with
                        me.”
                    “Mr Hamlin,” said Anne, slowly, “is a very generous man and a very chivalric
                        man, and,” she added, feeling as if Madame Elaguine were looking into her
                        soul, and as if she must read ingratitude written in it, “I feel that I
                            am indebted to him not merely for all
                        he has done for me, but for the way in which he has done it—”
                    “Oh no, no!” exclaimed the polite little poet, to whom Anne was quite the
                        goddess, “don’t say that, Miss Brown; you can never owe anything to any one.
                        Whatever a man can do, is a tribute which his nature forces him to lay down
                        at your shrine.”
                    “Yes,” mused Madame Elaguine, following out the pattern of the carpet with
                        her parasol “indebted—that is how one must feel towards Walter—indebted for
                        the pleasure, &c., &c., of so charming an acquaintance; but
                        love—one can’t love where there is only artistic instinct to meet one—”
                    “I know nothing about such matters,” said Anne, quietly.
                    “But, perhaps—Hamlin may be a sort of child of genius, and the man, the man
                        who feels may come later,” finished the Russian.
                    “When people don’t feel, they don’t feel,” said Anne, sternly; “I
                        mean—morally.”
                    
                    “By the way,” exclaimed Chough, “I am reading such a delightful book—have you
                        ever read it, Madame Elaguine?—The Letters of Mademoiselle Aïssé—”
                    “Who was Mademoiselle Aïssé?” asked Anne absently, forgetting that experience
                        had taught her that it was safer not to inquire too curiously into Mr
                        Chough’s heroines.
                    “I suppose she was some improper lady or other—all your poetic ladies were,
                        weren’t they?” asked Madame Elaguine. “Something like your Belle Heaulmière,
                        whom you insisted on talking about at poor Lady Brady’s party, although I
                        kept making signs to you the whole time.”
                    “Improper?” exclaimed Chough. “Mademoiselle Aïssé was the soul of virtue—the
                        purest woman—of the eighteenth century.”
                    “Tell us about this purest woman of—the eighteenth century,” laughed
                        Sacha.
                    “She was the daughter of kings; her name was originally Ayesha, like the wife
                        of the Prophet—but she became a slave, and was sold as a child to M. de Ferréol—I think that was his
                        name—who was ambassador at Constantinople. M. de Ferréol sent her to his
                        sister?in?law in Paris to educate. Aïssé grew up the most refined and
                        accomplished woman,—you should read her letters—perfect gems!—and
                        marvellously beautiful. Life was just opening to her, and love also, when M.
                        de Ferréol returned from Constantinople, and said to this exquisite, proud,
                        and pure?minded creature: ‘You are my slave; I bought you, I educated you;
                        now love me.’”
                    Chough paused and looked round him to watch the effect of his eloquence. But
                        his eyes fell upon Anne. She was very white.
                    “Well—and what did Aïssé answer?” asked Madame Elaguine.
                    “Aïssé answered—let me see, what did Aïssé answer?—oh, I should spoil your
                        pleasure were I to tell it you. I will bring you the book, dear Madame
                        Elaguine, and you shall tell me what you think of it.”
                    
                    Anne felt that she had betrayed herself. To Sacha, she hoped, she believed
                        not—but to Chough. The little poet, in his trumpery way, was really attached
                        to Anne, whom he considered as his guardian angel; and perhaps his affection
                        had made him understand.
                    “What became of Mademoiselle Aïssé?” asked Anne, some time later, as she
                        stood by the piano where Chough was playing.
                    Chough looked up. “Oh—why—she—in short—afterwards—she died.”
                    “Would you like to see the book?” asked Madame Elaguine; “I have some others
                        on hand at present. Mr Chough shall send it to you—”
                    “Oh no, thank you,” answered Anne, “I have a heap of books to get through;
                        and—I don’t care what happened to Mademoiselle Aïssé.”
                    “You are very hard?hearted, Anne.”
                    “She would not have objected to M. de Ferréol if she had remained a mere
                        little Turkish slave?girl; she would have thought him a sort of God. She had no business to let her
                        education make her squeamish.”
                    “A nasty old ambassador!” said Madame Elaguine. “I think it was
                        awfully hard upon her, poor thing! And was she in love with some one else,
                        Mr Chough?”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    WHEN Chough first told her the story of Mademoiselle Aïssé, it was
                        as if Anne had been suddenly confronted by her own wraith, surrounded by
                        strange and tragic lights; and the shock was very violent. But Miss Brown
                        was too honest not to see after a minute that between her and Aïssé there
                        was an unfathomable difference. M. de Ferréol was a mere experimentalising
                        old roué, who had had a mistress prepared
                        as he might have had a goose fattened; and what he claimed of Aïssé was her
                        infamy. Anne’s conscience smote her; she was very ungrateful. And she
                        thought over all those scenes at the Villa Arnolfini, at Florence, nay, here
                        in England not so long ago; she thought of Hamlin’s generosity and delicacy of mind—of the quixotic
                        way in which he had bound himself while leaving her free—of the chivalrous
                        way in which he had dowered her, making her feel almost as if all this
                        money, which placed her on his own level, was her own inheritance, and not
                        his charity. She remembered all the respect, which was more of a brother
                        than of a lover, with which he treated her—the constant manner in which he
                        hid all her obligations to him, never letting any taunt or harsh word of
                        hers get the better of his resolution that Anne should feel that she owed
                        nothing to him, and that he craved for her love as he might have done for
                        that of a queen. And it came home to her how pure, nay, how poetically and
                        romantically noble was the love which he asked for; and she felt almost
                        wicked when she reflected that what he wanted was to make her into the very
                        highest thing which a man can make a woman—a sort of Beatrice, a creature to
                        love whom will be spiritual redemption. All these things did Anne say to
                        herself; but it cost her an effort, and the
                        strain could not be kept up. The fact was that she had, in her terror of
                        being unjust, refused to listen to her own plea. But it came back to her
                        like an overwhelming flood. She could not love Hamlin; her soul recoiled
                        from contact with his as her body might have recoiled from the forced
                        embrace of a corpse: such a union, it seemed, would mean the death of her
                        own nature. To be Hamlin’s wife, to spend all her life by his side,
                        hopelessly watching his growing callousness to everything for which she felt
                        born,—to feel one generous impulse after another gradually waxing feebler,
                        one energy after another for good becoming paralysed by the deathly moral
                        chill of his utter heartlessness,—was this not much worse than any mere
                        dishonour of the body, this prostitution of the spirit? Aïssé’s soul at
                        least was free; her Ferréol could not deprive her of her moral freedom, her
                        aspirations, her powers of self?sacrifice; but with her, Anne Brown, it was
                        different. And she repeated to herself with bitterness the warning words which Richard Brown had spoken in
                        vain so long, long ago: “You will be his to do what he chooses; worse than
                        his slave, his mere chattel and plaything.” How little Dick had guessed the
                        much more terrible meaning which these words would come to have for her!
                    Unconsciously Anne’s mind reverted to the business of Marjory and Harry
                        Collett; and her mind’s eye rested for a moment upon those two lovers, to
                        each of whom, through whatsoever of discrepancy there might be, the other
                        represented his or her highest ideal, that other’s opinion his or her
                        highest conscience; not passionately in love, like Othello and Desdemona, or
                        Romeo and Juliet, but persuaded to their inmost soul that in living by each
                        other’s side, and sympathising with and helping in the other’s work, each
                        would be fulfilling his or her best destiny in the world. Another woman
                        situated like Anne might have let herself be tempted into cynicism by
                        unconscious envy; but this was not within
                        Miss Brown’s honest, and open?eyed, and stern nature. She never once said to
                        herself—“Marjory and Harry will awake one day from their dream.” She had
                        dreamed, alas! and had awakened; but she recognised that these two were
                        broad awake, and that their happiness was a reality. Anne looked at these
                        two lovers for a moment, but without any envy or bitterness. It never even
                        entered her mind to covet their happiness, to imagine that she might have a
                        right to anything similar. Anne, though leaning towards socialism in her
                        theories, was not in the least a communistic mind; she did not ask, “Why
                        should I not get the same advantages as my neighbours?” She envied no one
                        the prize in the lottery; she begged only for a chance. To be the wife of a
                        man whom she loved, and who loved her—to be the companion and helpmate of
                        some one who was striving after her own ideals; such hankerings had never
                        passed through her mind—or, if they had, they had long since been banished.
                            What Anne longed for, what her soul
                        hungered after, was merely negative freedom. Freedom to sympathise and to
                        aspire—to do whatever little she still might to carve herself out a
                        spiritual life of her own, no matter how mean and insignificant; freedom to
                        live in that portion of her which was most worthy of life. To gain her
                        bread, no matter how harshly; to be of some use, to teach at a school or
                        nurse at a hospital; nay, to be able merely to encourage others to do what
                        she might not,—this was all that Anne asked; and this, in her future as the
                        wife of Hamlin, as the queen of this æsthetic world, which seemed to poison
                        and paralyse her soul, was what she knew she could not have, what she knew
                        she must do without.
                    “I am a selfish brute,” she suddenly said to herself, “wasting the time which
                        is still mine,”—and she took down her books of political economy, and tried
                        to fix her attention upon them, and think out a scheme of the lessons and
                        exercises which she would give to the shop?girls at the Working Women’s
                            Club. But what was the use of doing
                        this? Hamlin, she knew, loathed the notion of her teaching at the Club; he
                        would never let her teach there; and, once his wife, she understood him
                        sufficiently to be fully aware that he would consider himself completely
                        empowered to make her do or leave alone whatever he chose.
                    Still Anne tried to work on courageously. In the afternoon she went to hear
                        one of Professor Richmond’s lectures. This was the fervent young positivist
                        whom Cousin Dick so much admired, and whose intense moral convictions had
                        done a good deal to keep Anne out of the slough of desponding pessimism
                        round which she had been some time hovering. Andrew Richmond was a man who
                        had many slanderers, many of whom he has now left behind him—their
                        misrepresentations having been more long?lived than he; for he had passed
                        through many phases of thought, and, being perfectly honest, he had never
                        been able to become unjust to any, and thus had made enemies not merely
                        among the men whose beliefs he had
                        abandoned, but among those also whose beliefs he had accepted without
                        accepting their follies. He stood very alone; and it was perhaps this
                        isolation—this obvious indifference of the man to all save his own reason
                        and conscience—which added to the solemnity of his convictions; and made him
                        appear, more than any one else, in the light of a priest of morality, of a
                        prophet of the advent of justice. Anne had never spoken to Richmond; but she
                        felt that, of all human souls, this one did the most to keep up the courage
                        of her own. This was one of the last discourses which the poor dying
                        positivist ever delivered; and it was the more earnest for the sense of his
                        approaching end. He spoke this time, or, as his ridiculers called it, he
                        preached upon the relation of duty to progress; upon the value of each good
                        impulse carried out, and each evil one resisted, in making morality more
                        natural and spontaneous in the world; and he insisted especially upon the
                        danger, to people whose ideas of right and wrong rested no longer upon any priestly authority, of the
                        individual sophisticating himself into the belief that in yielding to the
                        preferences of his own nature he was following the highest law, and that any
                        special usefulness ought legitimately to be bought at the expense of
                        departing from the moral rules of the world.
                    “The danger of our epoch of moral transition,” he said, “lies in the
                        temptation of the individual to say to himself—‘If I am willing to sacrifice
                        myself, have I not a right also to sacrifice the established opinions of
                        others?’”
                    “I detest that man Richmond,” Madame Elaguine had once said; “he puts an end
                        to all self?sacrifice.”
                    “If you mean the sacrifice of one’s peace of mind and social dignity to the
                        passion of another person and to one’s own, he certainly does,” Richard
                        Brown had answered sternly.
                    At the door of the lecture?room Anne met her cousin.
                    “Are you driving to Hammersmith?” he asked.
                    
                    “No; I am going to walk.”
                    Anne had made it a rule for the last two or three months to deprive herself
                        of all luxuries. She did not wish to enjoy everything that she had a right
                        to; she had also a stern pleasure in doing the things most repugnant to her;
                        and a walk through the London streets, in murky spring weather, was to
                        Anne’s Italian temper, nurtured with æsthetic delicacy, one of the most
                        disagreeable of expeditions.
                    “But it is drizzling and horribly muddy,” said Richard Brown, looking at her
                        as he buttoned her ulster over her massive figure. “Surely Hamlin will be
                        very much shocked if you come into the house with mud on your shoes? But if
                        you are really going to walk I will accompany you, if you don’t mind,
                        because I’m going in that direction.”
                    “Where are you going?”
                    “To Hammersmith; I have some business there.” And Brown looked once more at
                        his cousin as he opened his umbrella over her.
                    “Will you take my arm, Anne?” Richard Brown
                        was not a lady’s man, and there was something awkward and unaccustomed in
                        his request.
                    “I am big enough to take care of myself, I think, Dick. And I know you hate
                        having women to drag along; I have watched you going into dinner?parties
                        often enough.”
                    “It is out of my line, you’re right.”
                    For some time they walked along in silence through the black oozy streets,
                        crammed with barrows of fruit, round which gathered the draggled dripping
                        women, their babies huddled up in their torn shawls, their hair untidy and
                        dank beneath their once lilac or pale?pink smut?engrained bonnets; the cabs,
                        shining blue?black, ploughed through the mud; the heavy drays splashed from
                        gutter to gutter; the houses were black and oozy; the very raindrops on the
                        railings looked black; the sky was a dirty dull?grey waste; only the scarlet
                        letter?boxes stood out coloured in the general smutty, foggy, neutral
                        tint.
                    “Do you remark that public?houses are the
                        only places which make an attempt at architecture and ornament?” said Dick
                        grimly, as they passed the ground?glass windows and colonnade and coloured
                        glass globes of one of these establishments. “Did it not strike you, Italian
                        as you are, that in this country, which has invented high art, the only
                        things called palaces, except those inhabited by royalty, are pot?houses?
                        Why do your æsthetic friends keep all their æstheticism for indoors? Why
                        don’t they build themselves houses which will be some pleasure to the poor
                        people who pass?”
                    Always that indirect attack upon Hamlin and his friends: it was just and
                        reasonable; yet, coming from Brown, it somehow grated upon Anne.
                    “That will come later,” she said. “The first thing is that the upper classes
                        become accustomed to beautiful things. You can’t expect them to mind hideous
                        outsides to their houses if they are indifferent to hideous insides. I don’t
                        think,” she added boldly, “that æstheticism
                        has had much generosity of aspiration in it so far, except in isolated men
                        like Ruskin and Morris; but I am sure it will eventually improve some
                        matters even for the lower classes.”
                    “Nero rebuilt Rome, didn’t he,” sneered Brown, “after he had amused himself
                        burning it down?”
                    They fell to talking about the lecture, and then about Richard Brown’s
                        plans.
                    “I hope to get into Parliament next elections,” he said, “and then I shall
                        retire from Mr Gillespie’s firm.”
                    “Why? They say you can make a big fortune if you keep on.”
                    “I have quite money enough; I am a rich man. You wouldn’t have thought that
                        possible, would you, Nan, two or three years ago? Almost as rich as Hamlin,
                        do you know, young woman?” and he turned and looked at her. There was a
                        curious expression, what she could not understand, except that it was
                        defiant, in Dick’s face.
                    
                    “I am glad to hear it. It is a fine thing to have money; it enables one to do
                        generous things—like what Mr Hamlin did for me, for instance.” Anne could
                        not have explained why she felt bound, at this particular moment, to throw
                        Hamlin’s generosity in her cousin’s face.
                    “Ah, well,” answered Brown, suppressing something he had been about to
                        retort, “of course I could not formerly have done what he did for you; but I
                        would have gladly spent every shilling I had, Anne, to educate you, so that
                        your father might have been proud of you.”
                    “I know you would, Dick—you are very kind.” And yet, thought Anne, until he
                        had been piqued by Hamlin’s offer, he had forgotten all about her. “But why
                        do you intend to leave your business?”
                    “Because I want to give myself up entirely to studying social questions, and
                        my business would suffer if I gave it only partial attention.”
                    And he proceeded to explain the various questions which he intended studying,
                            the various evils into whose reason he
                        wished to look.
                    “Reform has been too much the leisure?time amusement of men,” he said.
                        “People have thought that it requires less training to touch, nay, to sound,
                        social wounds, than to set a broken arm or dress a wound. We must find the
                        scientific basis for our art. And it is a very, very long art, and life is
                        very, very short. For my part, I feel that my knowledge is to what it should
                        be what the knowledge you may get out of a school primer of physiology is to
                        the knowledge required by a great surgeon. I don’t suppose I or any of my
                        generation will succeed in doing much practical good; but we shall have made
                        the public ready for certain views on our subjects, and rendered it easier
                        for our practical followers to get their education. There is nothing very
                        glorious to be done at present: no giving out of brilliant new ideas or
                        making of successful revolutions; only patient grubbing at facts and patient
                        working on the public mind.”
                    
                    “Is that enough for an ambitious man?”
                    “One must pocket one’s ambition. What we want is knowledge, not conspicuous
                        personalities.”
                    Anne was silent. Dick’s words were like military music to her. Oh to be able
                        to join him, to march by his side, to carry his arms!
                    “Go on Dick, please. It does one good to hear of these things.”
                    Dick went on.
                    “You must not overwork yourself,” said Anne, anxiously. “Just think if you
                        were to break down, as so many men have done—as poor Richmond is doing.”
                    “Oh, I am strong. The only thing which concerns me is my sight. I find I am
                        already unable to read of an evening. There’s no danger of blindness, but
                        the doctor says I must not work by candle?light. Oh, there’s no mischief. I
                        shall engage a secretary. I know plenty of young men who would come, even
                        for a small salary. There is the son of one of our head workmen, a very
                            intelligent lad, of whom I am thinking;
                        but perhaps he is not sufficiently educated yet. I must have some one who
                        knows German and French, and so forth.”
                    Anne felt a lump in her throat. Oh that she had been a man, instead of being
                        this useless, base creature of mere comely looks, a woman, set apart for the
                        contemplation of æsthetes! If she had been a man, and could have helped a
                        man like Richard Brown!
                    “But I am not certain of my plans just yet,” added Brown, and he dropped the
                        subject. They walked on for some moments in silence; then he began
                        questioning her about Lewis, and Chough, and Dennistoun.
                    “Chough is a dear good little man,” said Anne; “he is very absurd and vain,
                        and fond of talking and writing about wicked things, which I am sure he
                        doesn’t understand any more than I. But he is so self?sacrificing, and
                        warm?hearted, and true. Dennistoun, poor creature, is very morbid and faddy,
                        and, I think, hates me; but I am very sorry for him. As to Lewis, he may be a very good man, but I
                        don’t like him—”
                    “I suppose you have heard what people say,—that Mr Lewis had rather a bad
                        influence upon Hamlin some years ago—in short, made him take to eating
                        opium, or haschisch, or something similar?”
                    “No—I had never heard that,” and Anne seemed suddenly to understand her
                        instinctive horror of Lewis.
                    “Does Hamlin see much of him now?”
                    “A great deal—more than I can at all sympathise with. Lewis is rather a sore
                        subject between us; he knows I don’t like him, and yet he is very fond of
                        him.”
                    “I suppose Lewis flatters him very much.”
                    “I suppose so.”
                    Anne resented being thus cross?questioned about Hamlin, but she was quite
                        unable to prevaricate in her answers—her nature was too frank, and Richard’s
                        questions were too direct.
                    “You are not very happy with Mr Hamlin,” he suddenly asked, or rather
                        affirmed.
                    
                    Anne flushed, but did not answer at once. “I have an unlucky temper,” she
                        said, after a moment. “I am too exacting with people. I can’t get out of my
                        own individuality sufficiently, I fear.”
                    Richard looked at her with pity, and at the same time with that implacable
                        scrutiny of his.
                    “You feel your nature narrowed by all this æsthetic world around you,” he
                        said. “You find these men selfish, mean, weak, shallow—”
                    “Chough is not selfish. As to Dennistoun and Lewis, I told you I disliked
                        them.”
                    “You are equivocating, Anne. You know I am not speaking of Dennistoun, or
                        Lewis, or Chough. You find that Hamlin drags you down, freezes all your best
                        aspirations.”
                    Anne turned very white and trembled.
                    “Mr Hamlin is a poet, an artist; he is not a philanthropist or a thinker. But
                        he has done for me more than I believe any man has ever done for any
                        woman.”
                    
                    “But—you don’t love him?”
                    Richard had stopped as they walked along the Hammersmith embankment. It was a
                        very quiet spot, and not a soul was out in the thin, grey, drizzly fog.
                    Anne hesitated for a moment.
                    “I feel very much attached to Mr Hamlin on account of his generosity towards
                        me—and I feel I can never repay it.” She did not look in Brown’s face as she
                        answered, but stared vaguely at the river, at the dripping trees, the grey
                        willow branches pulled backwards and forwards by the grey current; at the
                        houses opposite, and the boats dim in the fog.
                    “You don’t love him?” repeated Richard in a whisper. “Anne, answer me.”
                    “I don’t see what right you have to ask me such a question, Richard.”
                    “No? Well, I do—and you shall see why. You are not his wife; why should you
                        try and tell lies? Do you or do you not love Hamlin, Anne?”
                    
                    Anne looked for a moment at the swirling waters, at the willow twigs whirled
                        hither and thither.
                    “I suppose I do not.”
                    There was a pause.
                    “You do not love him, and you still contemplate marrying him?”
                    “I contemplate nothing at all. Mr Hamlin has not yet asked me to marry him,
                        and perhaps he never may.”
                    “Nonsense, Anne. And when he does ask you, what will you answer?”
                    “I shall answer Yes. I am bound to do it. Mr Hamlin has done all, all for me.
                        If he wish to marry me, I cannot refuse him the only thing which I can give
                        in return for his generosity.”
                    Richard Brown burst into a strange shrill laugh.
                    “The only thing which you can give in return for his generosity!” he
                        exclaimed, but always in the same undertone. “Who first made use of those
                        words, Nan? The only thing which you can
                        give in return for his generosity! Did not some one use those very words to
                        you, long, long ago in Florence, when Mr Hamlin first proposed to educate
                        you, and your cousin said that you were running the risk of selling
                        yourself? But, by God! you shall not sell yourself, Anne. Do you know what
                        you are giving him in return for what you call his generosity?—that is to
                        say, in return for the whim which made him educate a beautiful woman, that
                        he might show her off and have a beautiful wife, if he chose. Do you know
                        what it is? Your love, eh? You have none to give; you have said so yourself.
                        Your body? your honour? Nay, every prostitute, every kitchen slut can give
                        him that. And I suppose such things do not exist for a delicately nurtured
                        lady, a ward of Mr Walter Hamlin’s. No; you are giving him your soul,
                        selling it to him, prostituting it as any common woman would prostitute her
                        body.”
                    “Richard,” said Anne, hotly, “you are my
                        cousin, and have been very good to me, but that gives you no right to insult
                        me.”
                    “My words are ugly; and what are the things which you would do? Anne, you
                        shall listen to me,” and he laid his hand heavily on her arm.
                    “You can make me stand here,” she answered icily, “but you cannot make me
                        listen.”
                    “I can make you listen. Oh, Anne,” and his voice became suddenly
                        supplicating, “do not be womanish, and refuse to listen because I speak
                        disagreeable things. Answer me, on your honour: have I a right to let you
                        sacrifice your happiness, your honour, your usefulness in the world, to let
                        you defile and ruin all these, by becoming what is equivalent to a mere
                        legalised mistress—the wife of a man whom you despise? You have a debt
                        towards Hamlin: I grant it, though you must be well aware how little real
                        generosity there was in his choice of you; but you have a debt also towards
                        yourself. You have no right to pay for Hamlin’s kindness by the falsehood,
                            the degradation, of marrying a man whom
                        you do not love, by the sacrifice of all the nobler part of your nature
                        which that man will crush out in you.”
                    “If there is anything noble in me, Dick, no one can ever crush it out; and I
                        do not see what real degradation there will be in honestly carrying out my
                        part of a bargain which has been honestly carried out towards me.”
                    Richard paused for a minute.
                    “But,” he cried, “you mistake, Anne; you forget what that bargain was.”
                    “No, I do not. Mr Hamlin promised to marry me whenever I should ask him to do
                        so, and—”
                    “And he left you free, perfectly free to marry him or not as you
                        pleased!”
                    “He left me free; and it is just that generosity of his, in
                        binding himself, and not me, which obliges me, if he wants me, to say
                        Yes.”
                    “That is an absurd quibble, Anne. If Hamlin’s leaving you free bound you all
                        the more, why, then, he did not leave you free, and you need not be bound by a piece of magnanimity which
                        never existed.”
                    “On the contrary, you are quibbling, Dick. You know very well
                        that Mr Hamlin meant to leave me free; and it is for this intention that I
                        am, more than for anything else, grateful.”
                    Richard turned round.
                    “Fool that I am!” he cried, “to believe in you and not see through your
                        woman’s tergiversation! You say you do not love Hamlin, but you do; you may
                        despise him, feel his emptiness—I grant it all—be dissatisfied with him. Oh,
                        I know it! But you love him all the same, and you would not for the world
                        give him up, even if he asked you to.”
                    Anne laughed bitterly. “The usual generalisations about women. Because I will
                        not do a dishonourable thing, I must needs be a self?deluding fool. No; I do
                            not love Hamlin. I love him no more than this!” And Anne
                        broke a twig off a bush and threw it into the stream.
                    
                    “You do not? Then, if Hamlin were to release you,—if he were to say, ‘I want
                        to marry some one else,’—would you—would you not regret him, his poetry, his
                        good looks, his fame, his fortune?”
                    “It would be the happiest day of my life!” cried poor Anne, despairingly.
                    “Then that day must come. Anne, I cannot see you sacrificed. I cannot see you
                        lost to yourself and to the world. You must not marry Hamlin. I
                        will provide for you; I will take care of you. You shall help me in my
                        work!”
                    “Poor Dick!” said Anne gently, touched by this enthusiasm, “you are very
                        good; but I fear—I fear I shall never have any need of your help; and I
                        would never burden another man—never have a debt again—if I were remitted
                        this one.”
                    “You would have no debt,” cried Brown. “Anne, I am not a woman’s man. I don’t
                        know how to say such things. But ever since I have got really to know you, I
                        have felt if only I could have such a woman
                        as that always by my side—to tell her all my plans, and be helped in all my
                        work . . .”
                    Richard looked straight before him: Anne could see his face quiver. A
                        coldness came all over her: a coldness and a heat. She felt as if she must
                        cry out. It was too sudden, too wonderful. The vision of being Richard
                        Brown’s wife overcame her like some celestial vision a fasting saint. But
                        she made an effort over herself. “I am bound, bound,” she said; “but if ever
                        I be released . . . ”
                    She hesitated: the longing for what she knew herself to be renouncing was too
                        great.
                    “Anne,” cried Richard, seizing her hand, “I love you—I love you—I want you—I
                        must have you!”
                    It was like the outburst of another nature, a strange, unsuspected ego,
                        bursting out from beneath the philanthropist’s cool and self?sacrificing
                        surface.
                    That sudden contact gave Anne a shock which woke her, restored her to
                        herself; it horrified her almost. She made
                        him let go her hand.
                    “If ever I be released,” she said, “I will remain free. I do not love you,
                        Dick.”
                    She was sorry the moment after she had said it.
                    “I have gone too far,” cried Richard.
                    “Good?bye,” said Anne. “We have been talking too long—and—you won’t resume
                        the subject, will you?”
                    There was a command, a threat implied in her voice. Brown somehow felt
                        ashamed of himself.
                    “Not since you wish it,” he said flatly.
                    “Good?bye,” said Anne. And she walked away and entered the house—Hamlin’s
                        house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    THE sudden revelation of her cousin’s feeling was more than a shock,
                        it was a blow to Anne. In her loneliness, in her dreary waiting for the hour
                        of sacrifice, Richard Brown’s friendship had, almost without her knowing it,
                        been her great consolation and support. It had given her a sense of safety
                        and repose to think that, in the midst of all the morbid passion and
                        fantastic vanity which seemed to surround her, there was a possibility of
                        honest companionship, of affection which meant merely reciprocal esteem and
                        sympathy in the objects of life; wholesome prose in the middle of unhealthy
                        poetry. This was now gone: Richard Brown loved her, wanted her; it was the
                        old nauseous story over again; the sympathy, the comradeship, the quiet brotherly and sisterly
                        affection had all been a sham, a sham for her and for himself. Was Mrs
                        Macgregor right, and was there, of really genuine and vital in the world,
                        only the desire of the man for the woman and of the woman for the man, with
                        all its brood of vanity and baseness, and all its trappings of poetry and
                        sympathy and self?sacrifice? Anne looked round her, and she saw men like
                        Chough and Dennistoun and Lewis, base or doing their best to become it;
                        Hamlin, her girlish ideal of poetical love, had gone the same way; and now
                        the one man who had remained to her as an object of friendship and respect,
                        her cousin Dick, had preached against selfish æstheticism, had talked her
                        into his positivistic philanthropy—had conjured her to respect her nobler
                        nature, her soul, her generous instincts—had supplicated her not to degrade
                        herself,—nay, had quibbled with right and wrong, had urged her to break her
                        trust,—what for? that he might satisfy his whim of possessing her. The
                        solitude and the chilliness around Anne had
                        increased; she wished for good, but she disbelieved in its existence. Add to
                        this that she felt she was now no longer at liberty to see so much of Dick
                        as she had formerly done; instead of a consolation and a support, his
                        presence seemed to her now more of a danger and an insult. So she waited,
                        hopeless and solitary, for the hour of the sacrifice to strike; for Hamlin
                        to claim her. To fulfil that debt, to suffer that moral death?blow, seemed
                        to her now the one certainty, the one aim of her life.
                    Such was the bulk of Miss Brown’s condition; but there were streakings of
                        another colour which made it, on the whole, only more gloomy. The
                        possibility, the vision which had for a moment been projected on to her
                        mind, of becoming Richard Brown’s wife, of sharing in all those thoughts and
                        endeavours which were her highest ideal, would return to her every now and
                        then in strange sudden gleams. And this possibility, or rather this which
                        was an impossibility, made the real
                        necessity of her life only the gloomier for the contrast. Anne had vaguely
                        aspired after a life of nobler sympathies and stronger aims, but she had
                        never gone so far as to dream of sharing the life of her cousin; and she
                        thought that, had matters been different, had she been free, had Hamlin not
                        claimed her, had Richard not loved her (for his love, his selfish tempting
                        her away from her duty, seemed to her a sort of dishonour to him and her),
                        she would have had the fulfilment of her most far?fetched desires within her
                        grasp,—merely increased moral numbness, the sullen pain of resignation,
                        towards a fate which was too slow in coming.
                    Anne did not pay much heed to Hamlin and his doings: it seemed to her, whose
                        life in the last months had appeared like years, that it was always the same
                        monotony; Hamlin was waiting for her to fall in love with him, watching
                        whether she was not in love already; offering her, in those vague, Platonic,
                        elegiac speeches of his about the necessity of a higher life of which he no longer had much
                        hope, of a pure passion which he feared he was unworthy to experience, an
                        opportunity for saying “I will teach you how to love.” Veiled in Dantesque
                        mysticism, muffled in Shakespearian obscurity, such was, to her who
                        understood and was expected to understand, the gist of all the poems which
                        he wrote. The day would come, Anne saw it clearly, when some trifling
                        quarrel, some trifling jealousy, some rebuff to his vanity, or some sense of
                        more than usual vacuity, would get the better of Hamlin’s patience, and when
                        he would say to Anne that he loved her and that her love was his life. She
                        had gone over it all so often in fancy, with the bitter sarcasm of
                        understanding that whole, to her so tragic, little comedy. But had she been
                        a person more observant and penetrating than she was (for her long delusion
                        about her cousin Richard plainly shows that she was neither), or had she
                        been less engrossed in her own conception of events, Miss Brown might have
                            noticed, as spring turned into summer,
                        that certain slight changes were taking place in Hamlin. He had, without any
                        intentional rupture, taken to seeing much less of Chough and Dennistoun; he
                        scarcely ever visited his old master, Mrs Spencer, or any others of the
                        school; he refused invitations to parties, or if he had accepted, found them
                        too great a bore at the last moment; the only house, except that at
                        Hammersmith, which he frequented, was Madame Elaguine’s. He used to attend
                        all her spiritualistic séances, and
                        alternate between finding spiritualism a vulgar fraud and a mystic
                        possibility; he used to quarrel with Edmund Lewis, and at the same time to
                        seek his company more than any other man’s. He would vacillate also between
                        the most extreme opinions about his cousin Sacha. One day he would entertain
                        Anne by the hour about her virtues, her talents, her persecution; the next
                        he would be captiously fault?finding, accusing Madame Elaguine of being a
                        brainless little flirt, a mere ordinary Russian, who cared only for excitement and being perpetually
                            en scène.
                    “What is the use of asking people to be intense when it is not their nature?”
                        Anne would ask, not without bitterness in her own heart. “If you find a
                        pleasant friend, be satisfied and thankful for your good luck.”
                    Be it as it may, Hamlin was restless, subject to strange ups and downs of
                        humour, sometimes in a state of vague unaccountable cheerfulness, sometimes
                        horribly depressed. To any one but Anne it would have occurred that there
                        must be some novelty in his life. But Anne did not see; indeed, from a sort
                        of instinct, she observed Hamlin as little as possible: she had loved him
                        when she had not known him; the less she saw, except his gentle, chivalric,
                        poetic, idealising surface, the better.
                    But one day—it might be a fortnight after the memorable walk home from
                        Richmond’s lecture—Anne found among her letters one, evidently delivered by
                        hand or dropped into the 
                            letter? box
                            letterbox
                        , the address upon which. puzzled her considerably. It was not
                        merely that the handwriting was unknown to her, but that it was so utterly
                        unlike any human handwriting that could be conceived; it was like a child’s
                        elaborate copy of print, but executed with a precision, and at the same time
                        a certain artistic chic, of which a child
                        is incapable. Had she been in Italy, Anne would have expected to find within
                        that envelope one of those marvellously written out and illuminated sonnets
                        which certain needy individuals, counts and marquises fallen into bad
                        circumstances and anxious to redeem their only bed from the pawnbroker’s,
                        serve up at regular intervals to English and Americans, “the many
                        illustrious qualities of whose mind and heart, as well known as their noble
                        family,” are supposed to include munificence to beggars. To Anne’s
                        astonishment the letter which she found actually was in Italian. But it was
                        Italian of Stratford?atte?Bow, and her first impulse was to burst out
                        laughing. But the next moment she reddened
                        with surprise and indignation.
                    “MADONNA MIA,” began this epistle, which had evidently
                        been concocted with a ‘Decameron’ and a Baedeker’s travelling phrase?book,
                        and which sounded like English written by a German waiter who should have
                        taken to Spenser after the first dozen lessons,—“Inasmuch as it always is
                        the duty of the honest to warn the unsuspecting, and the most honourable are
                        always those who suspect least, your true friend and well?wisher desires you
                        may keep an eye upon the machinations of a base woman; and be on your guard
                        against the friendship [underlined] of cousins.”
                    Anne turned the note round and round, and read and re?read it, her heart
                        beating as if she had received a slap in the face. “The
                            friendship of cousins.” Her first thought was that this was
                        an allusion to herself and Richard Brown; some one had understood what she
                        had not, and was suspecting what was not true. But then her mind picked up
                        that other mysterious phrase, “the
                        machinations of a base woman.” The cousins were not herself and Dick, but
                        Hamlin and Sacha Elaguine, and that was the base woman alluded to. It was as
                        if a great light had shone in Anne’s face; she was dazzled, dazed. The
                        friendship of two cousins! Was there, then, more than friendship between
                        them? Did Hamlin love Sacha, or Sacha Hamlin? Anne gave a great sigh; but it
                        was a sigh of relief,—the sigh of the drowning wretch who is dragged on
                        shore—the sigh of the hunted fugitive who sees his pursuers turn back. The
                        friendship of cousins? Why, then, she was saved, she was free! But her
                        excitement lasted only a minute. Was she to believe an anonymous letter,
                        evidently malicious, evidently intended to slander an innocent woman, to sow
                        discord or to ruin her own happiness? It was evidently from an enemy of
                        Madame Elaguine’s; it could not be from a friend of her own; for a friend
                        would have spoken to her clearly and openly, or would have spared her what,
                        in the eyes of the world, which regarded
                        her as Hamlin’s affianced bride, must have been a horrible revelation. It
                        was an infamous or ridiculous calumny. From whom did it come? Anne thought
                        for a long time; she counted up her own enemies and Madame Elaguine’s. At
                        one moment she suspected Edmund Lewis, at another Mrs Spencer; but she was
                        too honest to credit any one of them with such a piece of treachery. Madame
                        Elaguine’s mysterious enemies—yes, it must be they! thought Anne; it must be
                        a new trick of theirs, a device for alienating her from her new friends.
                        Anne’s heart sank. Why must such terrible temptations be put upon her?
                    Miss Brown meditated for some time upon what she ought to do. She felt
                        indignant with the mysterious author of the letter; and she felt that, as it
                        contained a slander, it was her duty to let those whom it accused know the
                        whole matter. Should she show that paper to Hamlin? Once in her life, Anne
                        gave way to a movement of cowardice. That letter, shown by her to Hamlin, would, she knew, bring
                        the catastrophe. Hamlin would be furious and delighted; he would think she
                        was jealous and unhappy; he would on the spot declare that he loved her, and
                        ask her to be his wife. This consummation of her sacrifice, which, in the
                        dull apathy of the last fortnight, she had almost prayed for, now terrified
                        her. When it came, she was ready; but to hasten it—to bring it down untimely
                        on herself—to do that, Anne had not the heart. After all, it concerned
                        Madame Elaguine most, and she would doubtless have some clue to the writer
                        of the letter, and consequently take the matter less to heart. Anne
                        determined to show the letter to her. She thought she would go to her at
                        once, or write; but a faint, faint, almost unconscious instinct of
                        self?preservation bade her wait awhile; wait till she should have an
                        opportunity of seeing Madame Elaguine in the natural course of events.
                    Miss Brown had made up her mind that the mysterious letter had no sort of
                        truth in it; yet despite this decision, which lay, cut and dry, on the surface of her consciousness, a
                        hidden imperceptible movement was going on within her. She seemed suddenly
                        to remember things which she had not at the time noticed, to see things
                        which had not before existed, and must still have been there yesterday as
                        well as to?day. Things which had been meaningless acquired a meaning; things
                        which had seemed without connection began to group themselves. A change had
                        taken place of late in Hamlin; he had become solitary and morose, and more
                        than usually up and down in spirits—he had seen only Sacha and her. How much
                        had he seen of Sacha? Anne did not know, but she imagined a great deal. Then
                        she remembered how he had taken to finding fault with the little woman, to
                        running her down systematically to himself and to Anne. Could it be that he
                        felt himself tempted to break his engagement? Anne knew Hamlin too well by
                        this time to credit him with that. If such a thing should happen,—if,
                        finding insensibly that Anne was not what
                        he had imagined, disappointed with her coldness, hurt by her censoriousness,
                        and attracted by a woman who was everything that she was not—Hamlin should
                        ever come to feel for Sacha more than mere friendship, it was not in his
                        nature to perceive his danger and to struggle; he would let himself go to
                        sleep in the pleasantness of a new sensation, he would drift on vaguely, and
                        start up in surprise.
                    A new love was for him the most poignant of temptations,—a new love in its
                        still half?unconscious, Platonic, vague condition; and he was not a man to
                        resist such a temptation; indeed he had gone through life with the
                        philosophy that a poet may dally with any emotion, however questionable, as
                        long as he does not actually commit a dishonourable action. Oh no, Hamlin’s
                        ups and downs could not be struggles or remorse; so Anne decided that it was
                        all fancy, all calumny. And she determined to give the letter to Sacha on
                        the first opportunity.
                    
                    Madame Elaguine at last made up her mind that her little Helen ought to learn
                        something; and with the impulsiveness of her nature, she determined that
                        she, whom she had always kept under her own eyes, should go to school. Why
                        there should be such a swing of the pendulum, and why Madame Elaguine should
                        not rather hire a governess to teach the child in her own house, Miss Brown
                        could not explain, except by the capriciousness, the tendency always to be
                        in extremes, of Hamlin’s cousin. Anyhow, Sacha had determined that Helen
                        must soon go to school, and she had written to Anne begging her, before the
                        child went, to permit her to share for a week or two the lessons which Miss
                        Brown was giving the little Choughs. “I know,” she wrote, “that my poor
                        little child is not fit to be turned loose among other children yet; I know
                        she is too ignorant, too sensitive, too much accustomed to life with her
                        elders. To learn with Mr Chough’s children, to play with them, will take the
                        keen edge off; and also, I know, my dearest
                        Anne, that if anything can make this (I fear, alas! alas! to my shame)
                        over?sensitive and self?willed little savage more human, more desirous of
                        being good, and of raising herself, it will be your influence. I have often
                        felt what it would have been for me to have had a friend like you, and I
                        feel what it will be for my child.”
                    Anne was touched by this letter. Poor Madame Elaguine, although she did care
                        too much for Baudelaire and Gautier, and did tell too many anecdotes about
                        married women’s lovers and married men’s cocottes for Anne’s taste, was yet a good and brave little
                        woman; and she must be helped, if one could help her. And Anne was doubly
                        indignant about that anonymous letter she put in her pocket, and went to
                        call on Hamlin’s cousin.
                    Madame Elaguine was in one of her unstrung moments. Anne found her lying on a
                        sofa, a heap of books about her, reading none, fidgety and vacant. She
                        brightened up for a moment on Miss Brown’s entry, and received her with a kind of rapturous gratitude,
                        quite out of all proportion; but she speedily relapsed into her depressed
                        condition. Anne thought it better not to introduce the business at once.
                    “I want to know,” she said, “why you are suddenly so anxious to send your
                        little Helen to school, when you said, only a few days ago, that you could
                        not bear even that a stranger should have any influence upon her.”
                    Madame Elaguine hesitated. “Oh, dear Anne,” she suddenly exclaimed, “I am a
                        poor, weak, vacillating creature, always in excesses. You must
                        have pity on me. I suppose it is just because I was so horribly selfish
                        about my child that I have been crushed suddenly with the necessity of
                        sacrificing my feelings completely. It comes home to me—and oh, you cannot
                        think what it means to me!—that I am ruining my child, that she will turn
                        out merely another myself—another wretched, weak, unhappy creature, with
                        just morality enough to make her utterly
                        miserable, and just common?sense enough to make her feel her own silliness.
                        It is a terrible thing for a mother to say; but it is true, and I must say
                        it: I am not fit to bring up my own child—I am not worthy to do it.”
                    Anne looked at the Russian, who had raised herself on her sofa convulsively,
                        and thatched and torn to pieces a flower which was lying on her, with a
                        great look of pity.
                    “I am not bad!” cried Sacha—“I am not bad! I want to be good; but I can’t.
                        Oh, and I can’t teach my child anything, not even the multiplication table,”
                        and she suddenly burst out laughing.
                    Anne did not know whether to cry or to laugh.
                    “I quite understand your wishing that Helen should get the habit of work, and
                        should learn something,” she said, in her business?like way; “but I cannot
                        see the advantage of sending her to school. She is far too nervous and
                        delicate, and far too much accustomed to indulgence, to get anything but
                        harm from a school. Were she a mere strong,
                        sturdy, spoilt child, it would do her an immense deal of good; but a child,
                        you admit it yourself, so morbidly and almost physically sensitive, would
                        only be miserable at school, and probably be terrified by unaccustomed
                        discipline and want of sympathy. Don’t you think it would be wiser to get
                        Helen a thoroughly good governess, so that she could learn something, and
                        yet be in your house?”
                    “I won’t have a governess; they are all good?for?nothings. I won’t have spies
                        in the house!” exclaimed Madame Elaguine, vehemently.
                    “Nonsense!” said Anne; “how can you talk like that? You know that governesses
                        are just as good as schoolmistresses; and for you and Helen such a plan
                        would be in every way preferable.”
                    “I won’t have any one in the house to pry into my affairs!” repeated Sacha,
                        hotly. “Helen must go to school.”
                    Anne felt angry with the little woman.
                    
                    “Of course it is for you to choose,” she said; “but I confess I can’t see why
                        you should not have a governess any more than other people.” She felt as if
                        there were something wrong here.
                    “And do you forget what my life is?” cried Sacha; “do you forget that I am
                        the daily, hourly victim of unseen enemies? Would you have me admit some one
                        to my house, that she might play into their hands, or, at all events, pry
                        into my misfortune?”
                    Anne had forgotten that. How unjust she was!
                    “True,” she said; “I think we might find a governess who, even under your
                        circumstances, might be safely admitted into the house. But I can understand
                        your unconquerable aversion to the idea, so we had better look out for a
                        school, and, till one is found, I shall be delighted if you will send Helen
                        to me. I fear I can’t do much for her, but at all events she will meet the
                        Choughs, who are very good little girls.”
                    Madame Elaguine rose, and, to Anne’s 
                            im? measurable
                            immeasurable
                         surprise, she flung herself on her neck, and began to sob.
                    “Oh Anne, dearest Anne,” she said, “you are so good to me—so good, so very
                        good—and I don’t deserve it at all—indeed I know I don’t.”
                    “Nonsense; you are unwell and unstrung about Helen, and you are just making
                        yourself miserable. Do try and be quiet, and reflect that there is nothing
                        whatever to be miserable about.”
                    Somehow or other Miss Brown, for all her good?nature, always had a harsh
                        instinct whenever she saw Sacha in such a condition as this—an instinct that
                        the Russian could prevent it—that such fits of tears and abjectness were
                        mere self?indulgence, and self?indulgence which was utterly incompatible
                        with Anne’s idea of self?respect.
                    But Madame Elaguine could not be reined in. She fell back in an arm?chair in
                        an agony of hysterical sobbing, mixed with ghastly laughing.
                    
                    “It is not nonsense; it is true—it is true; I don’t deserve it. I deserve
                        that you should hate me. Oh Anne, you must hate me; but it is not my fault.
                        I hate him! I have always hated him! I have told him so; but he won’t
                        believe. Oh, indeed it is not my fault. But of course you hate me, you . .
                        .” and she suddenly burst out laughing.
                    Anne was very white. She had heard and she had understood; but she had no
                        right to have heard or to have understood.
                    Suddenly Sacha started up and looked strangely about her.
                    “What! you are here?” she asked, with a start as if of terror. “Oh, what have
                        I been talking about? Oh, I am sure I have been talking nonsense!”
                    “Poor little woman!” said Anne; “yes, you have been talking
                        nonsense; you are afraid of having a governess for Helen, lest—”
                    “Ah!” cried Madame Elaguine, with a sigh of relief. “Oh, you don’t know what
                        it is to have such a fit. One feels one is talking lies, and yet that one must go on. I never had any such
                        things before they began to persecute me. It is almost the worst part of my
                        misfortune. Fancy seeing, feeling one’s self becoming day by day more
                        abject, and being unable to stop it. Oh, I still feel so frightened!
                        something dreadful must have happened while I had that fit just now. Do call
                        for some tea, Anne, darling; I feel so shaken, as if something had
                        happened.”
                    “You will feel all right when you have had some tea,” said Anne. “Tell me,
                        have they, have those people been frightening you of late?”
                    Madame Elaguine nodded. “Only last night; you don’t know what happened. I
                        didn’t intend telling you—look here—but it is that that has put me into such
                        a state,” and opening the door of her bedroom, Sachs pointed to the wall
                        opposite.
                    Over Madame Elaguine’s bed hung a painted portrait of little Helen; but where
                        the face should have been was a dark spot.
                    
                    “Good heavens! what have they done?” cried Anne.
                    “Oh, they have only cut out Mademoiselle Hélène’s face,” said the Swiss maid,
                        who was sitting in the room, with a shrug. “For my part, I am accustomed to
                        such tricks, and so, I should think, must be Madame also.”
                    Something cynical and insolent in the woman struck Anne very much.
                    “How horrible!” she said, leading Sacha back to the drawing?room. “I can
                        quite understand your being excited to?day, and feeling anxious about
                        Helen.”
                    “It is because of that,” said Sacha, with clenched teeth, “that I want to
                        send Helen to school. She will be safer there than here. If things go on as
                        now, I shall have to send Helen to a convent; I am no protection to
                        her.”
                    “You must marry, and have a husband to take care of you,” said Anne,
                        quietly.
                    Madame Elaguine turned scarlet. Was she
                        afraid of having let out her secret? But to Anne’s surprise, instead of
                        looking anxious, a sudden look of triumphant amusement passed over her face,
                        a strange brazen look, and she burst out laughing—
                    “Ah yes, marry!—that would be a fine idea!—and whom, pray? Perhaps Lewis or
                        Chough. True—I forgot—he has a wife! Ah no, a rolling stone like me must
                        always be solitary.”
                    “You need not always be a rolling stone,” said Anne, gently. “But I must
                        go—good?bye, dear Madame Elaguine.”
                    At the door she met Hamlin. It seemed to her that he looked guilty, and
                        coloured.
                    “I have been to see your cousin; she has had another horrid trick played to
                        her. Go up to her, it will do her good to see you; she is very lonely, poor
                        little woman.”
                    Hamlin was unnerved by the allusion to the persecution. He stood silent for a
                        moment, with a long lingering look on Anne, like a man making a mental
                        comparison.
                    
                    “You are very good, Miss Brown,” he said, slowly; “there is no other woman in
                        the world like you.”
                    “Sacha has been more tried than I,” answered Anne. And Hamlin went up and
                        Miss Brown went out.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    MISS BROWN did not hand over the anonymous letter either to Madame
                        Elaguine or to Hamlin. She felt that she had now no longer a right to do so.
                        Sacha had, in the vague pouring out of words of that fit which Anne had
                        witnessed, let out her secret; but Anne had no right to use it or to act
                        upon it. She could only watch and wait.
                    Wait!—but in what a different spirit! Wait, not for the hour of death, but
                        for the moment of freedom, of complete freedom.
                    “What has happened to you?” asked Mrs Spencer, meeting her on her way back
                        from Madame Elaguine’s. “Why, you look quite another being, Anne—as if some
                        one had left you a fortune!”
                    
                    “No one has left me anything,” said Anne. “I feel very happy, that’s
                        all.”
                    “But where in all this wretched London have you been that you should feel
                        happy?”
                    Anne laughed.
                    “I have been to see Madame Elaguine.”
                    Mrs Spencer frowned.
                    “Well, that wouldn’t be enough to make me feel happy, I confess.
                        Was Walter Hamlin there? I believe it’s his safest address now, isn’t
                        it?”
                    “Mr Hamlin was there,” answered Anne, sternly.
                    “Mark my words!” said Mrs Spencer that evening to her father and husband, and
                        to one or two of those well?thinking æsthetes de la
                            vieille roche, whom Hamlin had basely deserted. “Mark my
                        words! Anne Brown has got impatient with all this philandering of Walter’s
                        about that precious Russian of his. There has been a grand scene, and Hamlin
                        has come round to reason. I met her returning from that Elaguine woman’s
                        to?day, and she never looked so happy in
                        her life. She said Hamlin had been there, and I know that she gave them both
                        a bit of her mind. She’s a proud woman, Anne Brown, and could squash that
                        little Russian vixen like that!”
                    “But, my dear Edith,” objected her father, seated among an admiring crowd in
                        his dusty studio at Hampstead, among his ghastly Saviours on gilded grounds,
                        and Nativities, in despite of perspective—“how de ye know that there’s ever
                        been any philandering between ’em?”
                    “Oh papa, really now you are too provoking!”
                    “Oh, Mr Saunders, how do we know anything?” chorussed the two or three
                        elderly poetesses and untidy Giottesque painters of the circle.
                    “P’raps ye don’t know anything, any of ye!”
                    Mrs Spencer sighed, as much as to say, “See what it is to be the
                        long?suffering daughter of the greatest genius in the world, and pity
                        me!”
                    
                    Cosmo Chough had been reading some of his ‘Triumph of Womanhood,’ lying on
                        the hearth?rug in the studio.
                    “Do you think he has proposed?” he asked, darting up, with beaming eyes.
                    “Proposed! I should think so, and been told not to play such tricks
                        again.”
                    “Ah!” cried Chough, “thank heaven. I—I—” but he stopped.
                    “You shall send Anne your Ginevra in the Tomb, papa, as a wedding
                        present.”
                    “Don’t be in too great a hurry,” said old Saunders; whereupon he was jeered
                        at with all the respect due to so great an artist.
                    For the first time after so long, Anne felt happy. A load was off her mind.
                        That Hamlin should love Sacha, and Sacha Hamlin, was the miracle which alone
                        could release her, and releasing her, put an end at the same time to the
                        horrible false position into which Hamlin’s self?engagement to a woman so
                        different from himself created for him also in the future. And now only did
                        it strike Anne that perhaps she had no
                        right towards Hamlin to pay off her debt of gratitude at the expense of what
                        might be his future misery as well as hers. Had Hamlin been sufficiently
                        infatuated to wish to marry a woman whom he did not really and solidly love,
                        would it have been right on her part to let him have his way? All these
                        doubts, which she had previously put behind her, as mere selfish sophistry
                        to tempt her from her duty, now rushed home to her. But they came no longer
                        to torment, but to add to the relief, the cessation of bondage. Hamlin would
                        never, she said to herself, have been really happy with her as a wife; and
                        now it happened that he had met the woman who, whatever her shortcomings,
                        seemed to suit him. That Sacha Elaguine was an undisciplined, thoughtless,
                        rather sensuous woman, loving excitement and art, and indifferent to
                        abstract good and evil, Anne fully admitted; but were not these the very
                        qualities which would make her appreciate what in Hamlin was original and
                        charming, and blind her, for her happiness
                        (and added Anne, convinced by sad failure of the futility of trying to
                        change people’s nature) and for his, to his weak sides? And Sacha had just
                        that exuberant passionateness, more of the temperament and the fancy than of
                        the heart, which Hamlin required, and which she, Anne, so lamentably lacked.
                        For Sacha also it would mean a new life: it would mean, for the poor,
                        excitable little woman, always defrauded of affection and of an object of
                        adoration, a reality in her life, something to love, to worship, to pet, to
                        flatter—something to make her forget her miserable bedraggled childhood, her
                        wretched married life, her persecution and her maladies. This it would mean
                        to them; and to Anne it would mean . . . Ah! Anne did not dare to think what
                        it would mean for her; she was not yet sure. She might be mistaken, she was
                        still bound to doubt. And still, that great bliss, at which Anne was afraid
                        to look, meant only what to other women would have been a poor gift:
                            liberty to gain her bread, to feel and
                        think for herself—a life’s solitude.
                    Days passed on; and Anne, instead of being, as she expected, disappointed,
                        was confirmed by every little thing in her belief. On one pretext or other,
                        Hamlin was perpetually at Madame Elaguine’s. The latest excuse for seeing
                        her was to paint her portrait; so, for a number of days, Sacha came every
                        morning to the house at Hammersmith, and spent a couple of hours at least
                        closeted with Hamlin in the studio. Anne usually received her, and she
                        frequently stayed to lunch; and Miss Brown could not help feeling indignant
                        at the coolness with which Hamlin amused himself playing with two women: he
                        was perpetually trailing after Sacha, he was perpetually, she felt
                        persuaded, talking about life and love and himself in a way which was
                        equivalent to making love to the little woman; and yet, he would still come
                        and sit at Anne’s feet, and represent himself as the dejected and
                        heartbroken creature whom only a strong and pure woman could help. Once, Miss Brown had
                        considerable difficulty in restraining herself when, after a day spent with
                        his cousin, he came in the evening to her, and began the usual talk about
                        his soul being shrivelled up.
                    “I feel I am not worthy to live!” he exclaimed. “I have become too weak and
                        selfish to enjoy the world; I feel that I am sinking into a bog of meanness
                        and sensuality; and yet I cannot even become the mere beast that I ought—the
                        mere beast that would be satisfied with the mud. I keep looking up, and
                        longing for higher things which I cannot attain.”
                    “How very sad!” said Anne, icily; “what a pity you can’t make up your mind!
                        it would save you much valuable time. But then, I suppose, it always comes
                        in usefully for sonnets. That is the great advantage of being a poet.”
                    Hamlin was silent. He had—she felt sure, and she was indignant as if at an
                        affront—imagined that he might tempt her into saying—“I will raise you,”
                        while his poor, giddy, irresponsible
                        cousin was being dragged further and further into a passion which she would
                        never recover from—for she, at least, had a heart and he had none.
                    “You despise me!” cried Hamlin, after a minute.
                    “I thought your indecision between the bog and the stars rather contemptible,
                        certainly, just now. But I now see that such conditions are as necessary to
                        you as a poet as are your lay figures and studio properties to you as a
                        painter. It was my ignorance.”
                    Hamlin fixed his eyes on the ground. He looked very weak and miserable, and
                        like a man who feels that he has dishonoured himself in some way. But to
                        Anne it was all merely a piece of acting—the climax of that long and
                        nauseous comedy of self?reproach and self?sympathising, of pretending to
                        hanker after evil and good, that was equally indifferent to him,—that comedy
                        which had begun long ago in his letters to her at Coblenz, which she had
                        watched with admiration, and love, and agony at first, and with contempt and disgust at last. And she was hardened
                        towards him. She could have said to him—“Go and marry Sacha!” only that at
                        this moment such a notion seemed an insult to his cousin, and that a
                        horrible fear possessed her that he would seize upon that, and try and work
                        her and her anger into this very patchwork of artificial and morbid
                        sentiment over which he was for ever gloating. Once or twice, indeed, it did
                        occur to Anne that perhaps this whole flirtation with Madame Elaguine had
                        been got up by Hamlin for her, benefit; that he was playing with the heart
                        of the foolish little woman (who did not realise that he was making her love
                        him) merely to provoke Anne’s jealousy—to move her by this means, since he
                        had failed by every other. But even if it had been thus begun, and Miss
                        Brown shrank from believing that Hamlin would have been so deliberately
                        base, it was clear that the comedy had become reality—that he cared for his
                        cousin and she for him. Perhaps—perhaps—all this remorse was real after all. But Anne’s heart had got hardened
                        against him: she could no longer, do what he liked, believe that there was
                        anything genuine in him.
                    Meanwhile Hamlin’s perpetual attendance on Madame Elaguine had become
                        apparent to every one; and even Mrs Spencer admitted to her father that
                        Hamlin could not have proposed that day she had met Anne.
                    “That is to say—mind you, I daresay he actually did propose; but that
                        wretched woman somehow contrived to talk him over again. I believe she’s
                        capable of everything!”
                    “Well, my dear,” said her father, “it goes a little against your theory that
                        Miss Brown looks just as happy as possible.”
                    “Because she’s too honourable to believe!” exclaimed Mrs Spencer; and
                        forgetting the many acrimonious remarks in which she had indulged against
                        Miss Brown, and the many times she had sighed at Walter Hamlin taking up
                        with a “mere soulless Italian” instead of with this or the other Sappho or
                        Properzia dei Rossi of her circle, she
                        added—“I always knew that Anne was one of the noblest women in the world;
                        and the nobler women are, the less will they believe in the baseness of men.
                        For my part, I think love and marriage are the greatest curses of a woman’s
                        life.”
                    In which sentiment poor Mr Spencer modestly acquiesced.
                    “I shall have to warn her some day, if no one else has the courage to do so,”
                        she said. Of course no one else did have the courage. Edmund Lewis became
                        every day more and more offensive in manner to Miss Brown; he hated her, and
                        he enjoyed seeing her what he considered ousted.
                    Mrs Macgregor, although she went on abusing Madame Elaguine for being the
                        Sacha of other days, lived too much in her bedroom, saw too little of what
                        was going on even in the house, to guess at anything. Mary and Marjory Leigh
                        looked on in wonder and indignation; but Anne’s calm and cheerful manner
                        forbade their saying anything. Did not
                        Anne know better than any one how Hamlin felt towards her? and if Anne was
                        satisfied, must it not all be a delusion?
                    “Besides, Hamlin is too honourable,” said Mary, forgetting about the letter
                        to Harry Collett; “and how could a poet, an artist, prefer an odious, rowdy,
                        hysterical creature like Madame Elaguine to such a being as Anne Brown?” The
                        mere thought seemed a profanation.
                    “I don’t think Hamlin is a bit noble,” said Marjory, sternly; “and such a
                        little wretch is just likely to pamper his vanity—and Anne is too honest to
                        do that.”
                    “Every man has a nobler and a baser side,” said Harry Collett, mercifully.
                        “Madame Elaguine (though I think it very uncharitable to hate her because
                        she is a little rowdy, and I’m sure she’s quite innocent) may flatter
                        Hamlin’s worse part. But the nobler will always have its way, and with it
                        Miss Brown. Walter is weak, but he can see the difference between an
                        inferior woman and a superior one. Besides, after all, she is his cousin,
                        and I see no reason to go tittle?tattling
                        because two cousins are friends.”
                    “That’s the way Harry pays off Hamlin for writing that beastly letter about
                        me!” said Marjory to her sister, when Mr Collett was gone. “How I do hate
                        evangelical charity! how I do wish Harry had just a little of the bad in
                        him!”
                    Mary laughed, and catching hold of Marjory, kissed her.
                    “What do you mean?” cried Marjory, indignantly breaking loose.
                    “I mean, Marjory dear, that though you imagine the contrary, you are very,
                        very glad that Harry is just what he is.”
                    “Well, perhaps I am. But still, oh, I do hate . . .”
                    And thus the Leighs, being very happy themselves, forgot Anne Brown’s
                        supposed grievances, even as the best of us, being happy, will forget the
                        wrongs of others.
                    But there was one person who could not forget what seemed to him the most 
                            fright? ful
                            frightful
                         sacrilege in the world; and that person was Mr Cosmo Chough. He
                        considered himself as the assistant high priest of the divinity called Anne
                        Brown, and he believed that it was his duty to bring back the high priest in
                        person, namely Hamlin, to the worship from which the powers of evil had
                        momentarily seduced him. But he thought it more simple to apply to the
                        offended goddess than to her recalcitrant priest, who, to tell the truth,
                        had treated his vague remarks with considerable scorn. Accordingly, one day
                        (June had come round now) Miss Brown was informed that Mr Cosmo Chough
                        desired to see her.
                    “How ao you do, Mr Chough?” said Anne, stretching out her hand to the little
                        man, who came in with even more than usually brushed coat and hat, and more
                        than usually blacked boots, his lips squeezed into a long, cat?like grimace
                        of solemnity, his brows knit gloomily, and walking on the tips of his toes
                        like an operatic conspirator. Mr Chough sat down and sighed.
                    
                    “Will you have some tea?” asked Miss Brown, with her hand on the bell.
                    The poet of womanhood darted up, laid one hand lightly on Anne’s arm, and
                        opening and straightening out the other with an eloquent gesture, said—
                    “Excuse me. I would rather have no tea. I want your attention—your
                            best attention—seriously and at once.”
                    Anne could not help smiling.
                    “You can have both some tea and my best, my very best attention,” she
                        said.
                    Mr Chough sighed, and waited gloomily until tea had been brought, absolutely
                        refusing to open his lips.
                    “Have you brought something to read to me?” asked Anne, thinking it might be
                        some new bit of the ‘Triumph of Womanhood,’ which Cosmo Chough most
                        innocently read to all the ladies of his acquaintance, only Anne having the
                        courage to say every now and then, “I think that had better be omitted, Mr
                        Chough. I think people will give it a bad
                        meaning which perhaps you don’t intend.”
                    “I have nothing to read,” answered Chough, solemnly. “I have come to ask your
                        advice about a matter more important than any literary one.”
                    “You shall have it if I can give any. Go on, Mr Chough.”
                    “Well, then,” began Cosmo, stooping forward on his chair and frowning, “let
                        me premise that I have two friends whom I greatly value. I am not at liberty
                        to mention their names; but I will call one the Duke, and the other la
                        Marquise.”
                    “Oh!” cried Anne, laughing, “I fear I can’t give you any advice about such
                        exalted people as that. I am a woman of the people, and have never known a
                        duke in my life.”
                    “One moment’s patience, dear Miss Brown. This Duke—who lives—well, let us say
                        he has a magnificent hôtel entre cour et
                            jardin in Paris, has been affianced ever since his childhood
                        to the Marquise, who is the most 
                            beau? tiful
                            beautiful
                         and divine woman in the world, as he, indeed, is the most
                        accomplished gentleman, besides being my dearest friend; and they have been
                        looking forward to a union which will make their happiness, and that of
                        their friends, perfect. Do you follow that? But now—” and Cosmo Chough,
                        stretching out one long thin leg, so as to display his small foot and the
                        martial wrinkles of his boot, and propping his elbow on his other knee—“now,
                        mark. There comes into our perfect duet a discordant voice. A certain lady,
                        whom I will designate as the Queen of Night”—and he made his cat’s grimace,
                        and pausing, looked mournfully at Miss Brown, who sat quietly by, bending
                        over a piece of embroidery which she was doing from a design by Hamlin.
                    “Well!”
                    “Well, this lady, by some occult power of which I cannot judge, gains
                        possession of the fancy of the Duke—not of his heart,—he still continuing to
                        love the Marquise coralment, as the
                            trouvères say,—and in short leads
                            him, without however, as I said, in
                        the least diminishing his passionate love for the Marquise, into acts, or at
                        least appearances, which, to the mind of the vulgar are incompatible with
                        such love. What do you say to that?”
                    Little by little Miss Brown had guessed what Chough was hiding beneath this
                        grotesque piece of romancing.
                    “I say that the vulgar are probably right; and that the Marquise, for all the
                            coral love of the Duke, had better
                        throw him over, if she has a grain of self?respect. Will you have another
                        cup, Mr Chough?”
                    Anne spoke coldly and indifferently; and Chough, who, despite his vaunted
                        knowledge of the human heart, was the most obtuse of good?hearted little
                        people, actually prided himself upon having put his case so delicately, that
                        Miss Brown could not even guess as yet that she was alluded to.
                    “But the Duke would die were he to lose her! The Queen of Night, who is a
                        wicked fairy—une méchante fée—une fernme serpent —une mélusine, enfin tout
                            ce qu’il vous plaira” (Chough always liked to show off his
                        French)—“has fascinated only his fancy, not his heart. It would be most
                        unfair if he were to lose the Marquise. Well, to proceed; the remedy would
                        easily be found. La Marquise, like all passionately loving women, is a
                        little cold and proud—tant soit peu hautaine et
                            glaciale—need only thaw towards the Duke. She need only say or
                        make a friend tell him, that she adores him and that he is her sole
                        happiness—and see! the Queen of Night’s spells are forthwith broken by the
                        power of true love—the Eternal Womanhood reasserts its right, and all is
                        happy again. But the mischief is, that there is no means of bringing this
                        home to the lady. Lately, indeed, a trusty and respectful friend, an
                        Italian—a poet of some small distinction, I may add—ventured so far as to
                        acquaint her of the public rumour concerning—I mean concerning the Duke and
                        the Queen of Night—in an anonymous letter . . .”
                    
                    Miss Brown suddenly sat bolt?upright, and fixing her eyes on Chough,
                        said—
                    “You don’t mean to say that you—you actually concocted that ridiculous
                        missive?”
                    “Ridiculous missive! What ridiculous missive?” asked Cosmo Chough, striking
                        an attitude.
                    “Well, I ought rather to say that most ungentlemanly anonymous letter,
                        written in Italian which would make a cat laugh.”
                    “Ungentlemanly! ungentlemanly!” howled Chough; but in reality what he was
                        thinking of was Miss Brown’s stricture upon the Italian.
                    “Oh, Miss Brown!” he cried, after a minute, “and it is possible that you
                        should so far have misunderstood the friend who respects you most in the
                        whole world, as to have supposed that that letter had any evil intention? Is
                        it possible that you, who have of all people in the world been kindest to
                        me, who have been as a mother to my children—that you should have such an
                        opinion of me?”
                    Poor Cosmo had let go all his affectation;
                        he wrung his hands in real distress, and he actually seemed to be
                        crying.
                    “Oh fool, fool that I was, trying to do good, and merely making myself seem
                        an odious ungrateful wretch!”
                    His sorrow was so genuine that Miss Brown felt quite sorry for him.
                    “Come, come, dear Mr Chough,” she said, “don’t distress yourself. I think you
                        did a rather improper thing, but I am quite persuaded that you merely wished
                        to do good.”
                    And she stretched out her hand.
                    Chough struck his head with his fist.
                    “Ah, you are good—you are too good—dear, dear Miss Brown! but I
                        shall never 
                            recover
                            re cover
                         from it—never. To think I only wished to do good—and you think me
                        a slanderer!”
                    “Oh no,” said Anne, quietly, “I don’t think it for a moment. I know that all
                        that letter contained was true, except that you were unjust to one of the
                        parties; for I am sure Madame Elaguine is not at all base, and has no
                        conception of what she is drifting into.”
                    
                    Chough gaped in astonishment.
                    “You believe it to be true, and yet . . .”
                    “How can I help believing by this time what every creature can see, and what
                        every creature, except themselves perhaps, must and does see as clear as the
                        sun at noon?”
                    Anne spoke very composedly.
                    “But if that is the case—if you know—why then, how is it that you don’t—well,
                        that you don’t put a stop to it?”
                    “One can’t put a stop to what has already taken place.”
                    “Oh, but you can—you can—and it was in hopes of your doing it that I wrote
                        that letter. It is to entreat you to do it that I have come now, dear, dear
                        Miss Brown, to supplicate, to implore you . . .”
                    “To do what?” There was a freezing indifference in her voice.
                    “To do what? Why, to do everything and anything! Dearest Miss Brown, I know,
                        I understand fully, that Hamlin has acted unworthily towards you. I know, I
                        admit, that to a woman like you—all
                        passion, all nobility—Hamlin’s behaviour must be odious. But would it not be
                        worthy of you to reflect that Hamlin is a poet, and acting merely as a poet
                        must act? A poet is a double?natured creature, a baser and a nobler nature,
                        and his whole life consists merely in receiving as many and various
                        impressions as both his natures can receive. A poet must know the stars, and
                        know the mud beneath his feet; he must drink the milk and the absinthe of
                        life,—he must love purely and impurely, with his heart, with his fancy, and
                        with his senses—ah, you frown!—well, but such the poet is, such is Hamlin.
                        His soul loves and adores you; what if, at the same time, his baser nature,
                        the satyr in the god, be caught elsewhere? He loves you none the less; yes,
                        he loves you even at the moment . . .”
                    “I think this all rather disgusting, don’t you, Mr Chough?” said Anne,
                        sternly.
                    “Nay, have patience—for the sake of Hamlin, for the sake of your own noble 
                            good? ness
                            goodness
                        ! He loves you: and it requires but a look, a word, a message, to
                        make him forget that other love, to make it evaporate like opium?fumes. Oh
                        say this word—say it—and blow that ugly cloud of impure love from off the
                        fair resplendent face of his devotion to you! Write to him—speak to him.
                        Empower me, oh dearest lady, to tell him that you love him, and that this
                        wretched fancy of his is making you miserable!”
                    “It is not,” answered Anne, harshly; “it is not doing anything of the sort,
                        and it is no more a fancy than his love for me. As to Madame Elaguine, she
                        is in every way fit to be his wife.”
                    “His wife!” screamed Chough, and looked as if he would faint; “and you would
                        let your resentment go thus far—you would let the nettles choke the roses,
                        the impure passion choke the pure one, you would sacrifice him and
                        yourself—you would let him . . .”
                    “I would let him marry his cousin. There is no impurity about it, so please
                        don’t revert to that, Mr Chough. She is just the woman who might make him happy; the inclination is
                        perfectly natural and proper.”
                    Chough started up. “Oh, you saint! you noble heroic woman!” he cried, kissing
                        Anne’s dress enthusiastically.
                    “What are you doing, Mr Chough?” she asked angrily.
                    “I am kissing the holiest thing I shall ever touch,” answered the little man
                        solemnly. “Yes! you are a saint, an Alkertis, an Iphigenia! But we will not
                        let the monstrous self?sacrifice take place! No, by heaven! never, never!
                        You shall not give up your happiness; I will speak to Hamlin. I will tell
                        him all, all—that you love him . . .”
                    “I do not love Hamlin,” said Anne sternly, pronouncing every word clearly and
                        slowly.
                    “You do not love Hamlin!—you do not want—”
                    Poor little Chough was so utterly dumfounded that he had not the breath to
                        finish his sentence.
                    “You have obliged me to say what I never
                        intended to say to any one,” said Anne. “No; I do not love Hamlin; and if he
                        marry his cousin, I shall be happier than I thought I ever could be.”
                    “You love another!” whispered Chough, his eyebrows and whiskers standing on
                        end.
                    “Neither him nor any one else.”
                    “Then why—why have you not told him so? Why make the sacrifice of your
                        inclinations—because, marrying him, you would be—why?”
                    “Mr Hamlin has done everything for me. I was a penniless, ignorant servant.
                        He had me taught, he gave me his money, he gave me more kindness and
                        trustfulness and generosity than any man ever gave any woman I think, and I
                        must pay my debt. If he wants me, he shall have me. If not, so much the
                        better for me.”
                    There was a silence. Anne took up her piece of work; Chough sat rapping
                        gently on the table with his finger?tips, looking wonderingly at her.
                    
                    At last Miss Brown spoke.
                    “You have got my secret out of me, Mr Chough. I don’t believe much in you
                        poets; and I think you are a giddy, often a foolish man. But I think you are
                        a gentleman at heart, and a good man; and as such, I trust you never to let
                        out, either by speech or hint or look, positively or negatively, a word of
                        what I have told you. If Mr Hamlin marry his cousin, so much the better; if
                        he marry me, so much the worse. But what must be, must be. And come what
                        may, I depend upon you, as the only friend upon whom I can rely, to forget
                        all that I have told you to?day. Will you promise?”
                    Miss Brown looked very solemn; and Chough was overcome by an almost religious
                        awe.
                    “I promise never to reveal,” he said quietly, “but you must not ask me to
                        forget; I have neither the power nor the right to forget the best thing I
                        have known in my life. Goodbye, Miss Brown, and God bless you!”
                    
                    And Anne, who believed only in right and wrong, felt really the better and
                        stronger for the blessing of the preposterous little poet of Messalina and
                        Lucrezia Borgia, who declared himself to be an atheist when he did not
                        declare himself to be a Catholic mystic.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    SOME time after this conversation with Cosmo Chough, a circumstance
                        took place which caused great momentary excitement, and considerably
                        unsettled Miss Brown’s mind. The summer had come with a sudden rush; and
                        Hamlin had had the notion of taking his aunt and Miss Brown, and two or
                        three friends, to spend a week at Wotton. Among these friends was Madame
                        Elaguine. That Hamlin should care to take his cousin to the house where she
                        had played so lamentable a part in her childhood; that Sacha should endure
                        to confront those invisible ghosts of her uncle, her cousins, her own former
                        self, of all the shameful past, which haunted that house, was quite 
                            incomprehen? sible
                            incomprehensible
                         to Anne. But day by day she was forced to recognise that she was
                        surrounded by incomprehensible ways of feeling and thinking, that she was,
                        in a way, like a person solitary among mankind from deafness or blindness,
                        from incapacity to put herself in their place; and recognising this, she
                        recognised also, with her unflinching justice, that she had no right to
                        hastily condemn the things which she could not understand. So when Madame
                        Elaguine, on the evening of her arrival at Wotton, insisted on wandering all
                        over the once familiar house, and openly said that she felt a pleasure, the
                        bitter pleasure of self?inflicted penance, in confronting the past, in
                        humiliating her present self by the company of her former self, Anne merely
                        said to herself that she could not conceive a woman feeling like that—but
                        that, nevertheless, this theatrical and hysterical excitement might, after
                        all, lead to as good a result as her own silent and painful solitary
                        self?absorption.
                    
                    “She is a brazen creature!” Aunt Claudia had cried, when she heard that Sacha
                        was going to Wotton; “corrupt like her father, and fantastic like her
                        mother. She must get Mrs Spencer or some one else to chaperon her in that
                        house, if indeed she wants any one. I shall stay behind. As to you, Annie,
                        you are at liberty to go or not go, of course.”
                    “I shall go, Aunt Claudia,” Anne had answered resolutely, “because I don’t
                        see that I have a right to imply by my absence that I disapprove of Madame
                        Elaguine’s going to Wotton. I neither approve nor disapprove; and I think
                        that, however little we may sympathise with her notions of self?humiliation,
                        we must give her the benefit of supposing that she is honest in them.”
                    So Anne had gone.
                    The self?humiliation of Madame Elaguine, and the hours she had spent in her
                        room—she had asked for the room which had been hers as a child—crying over
                        the past, did not prevent her being in excessively high spirits the evening following their arrival and the
                        successive one. It would seem as if the painful associations in which she
                        had steeped herself had produced a reaction in her whole nature. She was
                        childishly, almost uproariously gay, played with little Helen the greater
                        part of the afternoon, and after dinner treated the company—that is to say,
                        Anne, Mrs Spencer, Lewis, and Hamlin—to a perfect concert of all manner of
                        wild gipsy songs, Spanish and Russian, sung with a fury which amounted
                        almost to genius; and followed these up with little French songs, old and
                        new, picked up heaven knows where—from operettes, from peasants, from
                        books—the words of which and the astonishing gaminerie with which they were delivered, amused Lewis to
                        fits of laughing, threw Chough into enthusiasm, annoyed Hamlin a little,
                        puzzled poor Mrs Spencer, and made Anne reflect, as charitably as she could,
                        upon the different standards of propriety which seemed to exist for
                        Englishwomen and for Russians.
                    
                    Madame Elaguine’s songs made Anne feel quite uncomfortable and angry; but she
                        said nothing, seeing Mrs Spencer, who could tolerate any amount of
                        impropriety as long as it was medieval and poetic, was evidently putting
                        down this French levity as a mark of the Russian woman’s depravity; and she
                        felt somehow, that though she was annoyed herself, and annoyed with good
                        cause, she must not back up Mrs Spencer’s prejudiced indignation.
                    Cousin Sacha seemed to take a pleasure in vexing Hamlin, in shocking Anne, in
                        making Mrs Spencer think her a wicked creature; she sang on, in her
                        devil?may?care, street?boy way, with a malicious, childish impudence in her
                        face; then suddenly, when she saw Hamlin get positively black at what he
                        considered her bad taste—suddenly dropped from her leste French couplets into a strange, wild, Spanish gipsy
                        song, sad and despairing beyond saying.
                    She looked very fascinating, as she sat near the window, resting her guitar
                        on her knee, her tiny feet and embroidered
                        stockings very visible beneath the lace flounces and frills of her
                        thistle?down dress; her deep, Russian blue eyes looking, as it seemed,
                        rather into the past than the present, her whole slight, even emaciated,
                        body and face tense with a sort of hysterical emotion.
                    Suddenly she threw the guitar on the sofa.
                    “Bah!” she cried, “what is the use of singing sad things when one is sad? and
                        what is the use of pretending to be merry, and shocking people with polissoneries when one feels as old and dismal
                        as at ninety? I hate music.”
                    And she walked through the French window on to the wide terrace which
                        surrounded one side of the house and overlooked the lawn.
                    “The only good thing,” she said, “in this world is tobacco?smoke. If,”
                        turning with affected deference and timidity to Mrs Spencer, who considered
                        a woman who smoked as little short of an adventuress, “you have no
                        objection, these gentlemen and I will have a smoke.”
                    
                    “Oh, pray don’t mind me,” snorted Mrs Spencer, stalking back into the
                        drawing?room, and sitting down near the window.
                    The three men immediately produced cigars and cigarettes and matches.
                    “No, thank you, Walter,” said Madame Elaguine; “your cigarettes are too weak
                        for me—too ladylike, like their owner, for a badly brought up woman. I must
                        make mine myself.” And she went into her bedroom, the last room opening out
                        to the terrace, to fetch her box of tobacco and her cigarette?papers.
                    In a minute she returned, whistling, in a curious bird?like whistle, below
                        her breath, and rolling a cigarette in her fingers. Some of the party were
                        seated, some standing. Madame Elaguine came to where Miss Brown was seated,
                        looking into the twilight park.
                    “Dear Annie,” she murmured, putting her arm round Miss Brown’s neck, in her
                        childish way, and which yet always affected Anne as might the caress of a
                        lamia’s clammy scales.
                    
                    “I fear,” she said, putting her face close to Anne, and lowering her voice to
                        a whisper, “that you must have thought me horribly vulgar and undignified
                        and indecent just now. I don’t know why I sang all those nasty songs; I
                        suppose it was to vex Walter. I don’t like them myself. But sometimes a sort
                        of horrible desire, a kind of demon inside me, makes me wish to do something
                        which I know is disgusting; I feel as if I could be the lowest of women,
                        just from perversity. Ah, it is sickening.”
                    Anne did not answer.
                    “Where did you learn those wonderful little Burgundian couplets, Sacha?”
                        asked Lewis, in his sultan?like familiar way. He had a trick of calling her
                        Sacha every now and then, as he had tried, but failed, to call Miss Brown
                        Annie.
                    “I don’t know. I ought not to have learned them at all; and I ought not to
                        have sung them before a man like you, who notices all the nastiness there is
                        in anything, and a great deal more
                        besides,” answered Madame Elaguine, coldly.
                    “What a Southern evening!” exclaimed Cosmo Chough, looking up at the blue
                        evening sky, singularly pure and blue and high, twinkling with stars, and
                        against which the distant trees stood out clear like the sidescenes of a
                        theatre. “It is sad that our cigars should have to do for fireflies,—to be
                        the only thing imitating that,” and he pointed at the sky.
                    “A lit cigar is the only imitation of the stars which people like ourselves
                        can attempt,” said the Russian. “It’s so in everything—our poetry, our
                        passions—nothing but cigar?lights for stars; don’t you think so, Annie?”
                    “What’s that?” asked Chough, suddenly.
                    They looked up at his startled voice.
                    “What’s what?” asked Madame Elaguine, quietly. “Have you seen the ghost of
                        Imperia of Rome, Mr Chough?”
                    “What the deuce is that?” exclaimed Lewis. In the midst of the general
                            blue dusk, one of the cedars on the
                        lawn, and a screen of trees beyond, had suddenly burst into sight, enveloped
                        in a bright light, which made the grass all round burn out a vivid
                        yellowish?green against the darkness.
                    Anne turned round quickly and looked behind her.
                    “The house is on fire!” she cried. “Madame Elaguine’s room!” And before the
                        others could understand, she had rushed towards the other end of the
                        terrace.
                    The light, which had suddenly illumined the piece of lawn, the trees
                        opposite, did issue, a brilliant broad sheet like that of large chandelier,
                        from out of the open window of Sacha’s room.
                    “Good heavens!” cried Hamlin, “you must have set the curtains on fire with
                        the match of your cigarette!”
                    “No, no,” cried Madame Elaguine, “I lit my cigarette here outside; it must be
                        . . .” and she rushed wildly after Anne into her bedroom.
                    
                    An extraordinary spectacle met Miss Brown first, and the rest of the party an
                        instant or two later.
                    The large old?fashioned bed of Cousin Sacha, which stood in the centre of the
                        room, was burning, blazing like a Christmas pudding, its whole top, coverlet
                        and pillows, turned into a roaring mass of bluish flame, whence arose an
                        acrid stifling smell.
                    “They have done it! they have done it!” shrieked Madame Elaguine, throwing
                        herself into Hamlin’s arms. “They want to kill me! they have always said
                        so!”
                    But before he had had time to answer, she had rushed off into a neighbouring
                        room, and, with a presence of mind most unexpected in her, returned with a
                        heap of woollen blankets which she had dragged off a bed.
                    “Pour the water on this!” she cried to Anne, who, with her strong arms, had
                        immediately dashed the contents of a bath on to the flames. “Soak this! it
                        is useless throwing water on the flames;” and taking the soaking blankets, the little woman threw them dexterously
                        on to the blazing bed, among the hissing of the smoke and fire.
                    In a minute every one had brought blankets, cushions, water; the servants had
                        run up; and in about five minutes the flames were extinguished.
                    The damages were very trifling compared with the appearance of danger. The
                        fire had not spread beyond the surface of the bed, and consumed only the
                        upper layer of bedding. But the sight of that expanse of waving blue flame
                        had been frightful, and it seemed impossible to realise that no harm had
                        been done.
                    “How has it happened?”—“How have they done it?”—“Send to the police
                        station.”—“Scour the park!”—every one was talking at the same time.
                    “I’ll go down into the park and have a good hunt,” said Hamlin, taking down
                        one of the guns which hung in the hall; “they can’t have got far yet.”
                    
                    “I don’t think you’ll catch them,” answered Lewis, in his drawling ironical
                        way.
                    “We’re not in Russia, Mr Lewis,” rejoined Mrs Spencer, bridling up;
                            “here any one can be caught; it’s not an incompetent police
                        as abroad.”
                    “Some things can’t be caught,” said Lewis, with an odd wise smile.
                    While they were standing discussing in the hall, they were startled by a
                        sudden thump on the floor. Madame Elaguine, who had hitherto been singularly
                        calm and energetic, had fallen in a half?fainting condition, like a column
                        on to the ground. She was carried in to a couch in the drawing?room, and
                        Anne called the Swiss maid, who came, with that sort of insolent
                        indifference to the condition of her mistress, which had struck Miss Brown
                        on more than one similar occasion. Madame Elaguine was in a state of
                        hysterical panic—she wept, and laughed, and talked, and moaned; but she
                        absolutely refused to be put to bed, and insisted with great violence
                            that some of the company should remain
                        about her. She kept Hamlin seated by the side of the sofa, his hand in hers,
                        until the arrival of the police, and of neighbours who had heard of the
                        burning bed, obliged him and the men to leave her. As soon as only Mrs
                        Spencer and Anne Brown remained, she became more calm, and merely lamented
                        over her fate, and over the probability that some day her enemies would
                        really succeed in killing either her or her child.
                    A curious coincidence occurred, which remained impressed in Anne’s mind.
                        While the rest of the party, including Mrs Spencer, were examining the house
                        in company with the policemen, Miss Brown, who was seated near Madame
                        Elaguine’s sofa—a sense of unreality, as of being at the play, filling her
                        whole nature after that terrible sight of the blazing bed—mechanically
                        opened a book which was lying on the table at her elbow. It was a child’s
                        story which she had bought on a railway bookstall and given to little Helen 
                            Ela? guine
                            Elaguine
                         to keep her quiet during the journey to Wotton. Mechanically her
                        eye ran along the page; but suddenly it stopped, as she read the following
                        sentence, printed in rather larger type than the rest—
                    “And they never forgot, as long as they lived, that terrible burning
                        bed.”
                    For a moment the words echoed through Anne’s mind as merely so much sound;
                        but, as is the case when we hear a name which awakens associations which we
                        cannot at first define to ourselves, she was conscious at the same time of
                        an effort to adjust her faculties, to seize a meaning which was there, but
                        which she could not at once grasp.
                    “And they never forgot, as long as they lived, that terrible burning
                        bed.”
                    Anne kept on repeating those words to herself. They made her restless. She
                        went to the window, and looked out into the night. The vision of that broad
                        sheet of white light on the terrace and bushes, of that expanse of waving
                        blue flamelets, rose up in her mind.
                    
                    “That terrible burning bed.” She saw the printed page again. Then, as to a
                        central bubble, other ideas which bubbled up slowly began to gravitate.
                        Madame Elaguine’s perfect, and, in a woman so excitable, unaccountable
                        presence of mind until all chance of further mischief had been over; the
                        blankets which she had immediately dragged out of the next room, as a
                        fireman might have dragged them; the rapid instruction, as of a person
                        accustomed to such things, to wet the blankets instead of pouring water on
                        the flames, as all the others had done; the insolent, indifferent look of
                        the maid; the going into her room to fetch the cigarette?papers only a
                        minute or two before the conflagration, and when it would seem that whoever
                        had set the bed aflame must have been making the necessary preparations.
                        Then also, the fire had been so carefully limited to the bed, as if no real
                        damage had been meant. No; that was merely consistent with the usual policy
                        of Madame Elaguine’s mysterious enemies, who wished to frighten, but not to kill her. But another
                        thought arose. Madame Elaguine possessed a good deal of valuable old lace,
                        indeed more than her fortune at all warranted. Old lace was her hobby and
                        her pride; she had always a lot on her dress, on her night?gown, on
                        everything. Some of the very finest that she possessed existed in large
                        quantity as the trimming of a white satin dressing?gown, which, towards the
                        evening, was always put on her bed. Anne had noticed it this very evening,
                        when Madame Elaguine had called her into her bedroom to ask her advice, as,
                        with a spoilt child’s coquetry, she often did, about some flowers which she
                        was putting in her hair for dinner. For some reason the maid had already
                        arranged the room for the night, and, as usual, the white satin
                        dressing?gown trimmed with lace had been lying on the bed. Anne had made a
                        note of the fact, because she had thought at the moment how absurd it was of
                        the Russian to put such valuable lace upon a garment which was perpetually
                            knocking about, and in which, as it
                        seemed to Miss Brown, she would scarcely be seen except by her own servant.
                        Now, while extinguishing the flames, one of Anne’s first thoughts had
                        somehow been the white satin dressing?gown. What a pity that all that lace
                        should have been consumed! What an annoyance to Cousin Sacha! But, to her
                        surprise and relief, she had seen the dressing?gown, a mass of satin and
                        lace, hanging in perfect safety on a peg at the furthest end of the room—the
                        dressing?gown which, an hour before, had already lain in readiness on the
                        bed.
                    All these ideas moved confusedly through Miss Brown’s brain. Was it a mere
                        ordinary mental delusion, one of those impressions which physiologists
                        explain by the imperfect momentary double action of the two brain?lobes; or
                        was it a recollection of a suspicion which had long existed in her mind, but
                        unconsciously, not daring to come to the surface? Anyhow, it seemed to Anne,
                        as she stood by the open window looking into the night, and listening to Sacha’s faint moanings, as if she had
                        gone through that or something similar before—as if it were not the first
                        time that she was invaded by the thought that all this persecution by
                        invisible and uncatchable enemies was a deception practised by Madame
                        Elaguine herself, a kind of artificial excitement and interest got up for
                        the benefit of her friends, for the benefit of her own morbid and theatrical
                        temper? It was difficult for a woman, simple, sincere, completely all of a
                        piece, like Anne Brown, to conceive such a possibility, and still more
                        difficult for her not to revolt from its contemplation as from an act of
                        disloyalty. But, on the other hand, Anne, just in proportion to her slowness
                        of mental perception, had not the power, which so many of us possess, of
                        denying the evidence of her reason for the sake of her feelings. So the
                        words in the book, which seemed as if they contained the suggestion of the
                        whole performance (if performance it was); the fact of the dressing?gown
                        having been out of reach of all danger; the manner of Madame Elaguine and of her maid on this and previous
                        occasions,—haunted Anne, and united with the sudden recollection of what she
                        had read in one of Marjory Leigh’s scientific books about the connection
                        between hysteria and monomania, about the strange passion for deceit, for
                        hoax, for theatricality, sometimes observable in hysterical women. And then
                        she remembered the face and voice of Edmund Lewis, his ironical remark about
                        the impossibility of finding the culprits, his indifference and amused
                        superiority. Could he too have guessed?—and, it suddenly struck her, could
                        Hamlin have had the same thought? No, she felt sure Hamlin had not.
                
            
            
            
                BOOK VIII.
                
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    THE incident of the burning bed left the inmates of Wotton Hall in a
                        state of excitement which outlasted their stay in the country. All attempts
                        to find the culprits had been useless; and Madame Elaguine had begged Hamlin
                        not to permit any regular judicial inquiry, lest the story of her
                        persecution, about which she affected to be excessively jealous, should
                        become public property. Hamlin, who hated vulgar publicity, easily
                        consented. But the mysterious story was now known to all the guests at
                        Wotton, and soon became known to the whole pre?Raphaelite set which centred
                        round the house at Hammersmith, with the result of turning Madame Elaguine,
                        in the eyes of Mrs Spencer and her friends, from something not much better than an adventuress,
                        into something uncommonly like a heroine and a martyr; for it seemed as if
                        these good folk, whose life was the most humdrum prose and whose ideal was
                        the most far?fetched poetry, felt absolute gratitude towards the remarkable
                        individual who supplied them with a real mystery, a real persecution by
                        unknown enemies, a real romance. So when Sacha, on her return to town, began
                        to suffer or to think that she suffered from nervous prostration due to this
                        terrible shock, and to lie even more than usual on sofas in even more than
                        usually picturesque dressing?gowns, she found herself surrounded by a crowd
                        of sympathising and admiring artists, writers, and critics, to whom she
                        confided, one by one, and in slightly different versions, the details of her
                        strange history.
                    The only person who seemed displeased was Hamlin; and the only person who
                        seemed cold was Miss Brown. Hamlin always required to absorb the whole
                        attention of any person to whom he took a liking; to see his cousin
                            fenced round with idiots, as he
                        described it, was almost a physical annoyance to him; he was cross,
                        captious, bitter, and gruff; and the more he showed his temper the more
                        pleasure Madame Elaguine took in provoking him. As usual, when out of sorts
                        with the world, and especially when he felt himself neglected, Hamlin began
                        once more to pay attentions to Miss Brown, to bemoan his own baseness and
                        weakness, to throw himself on her compassion, to insinuate that in her lay
                        his only hope.
                    This sort of talk, with his beautiful dreamy eyes fixed adoringly upon her,
                        his slow quiet voice sounding like that of a votary before an altar, had
                        long become for Anne a mere additional bitterness; a bitterness of
                        comprehension proportionate to the long delusion which had made her see in
                        this sort of behaviour the dissatisfaction of a noble nature, the yearnings
                        of real love. She was accustomed to it; and would have merely smiled the
                        bitter smile which had become part of her nature. But now, every lover?like
                        look or word from 
                            Ham? lin
                            Hamlin
                         inspired Anne with positive terror; it seemed as if he had let her
                        fancy that he loved his cousin—that he had let her dream of release, of
                        freedom from the life captivity which threatened her soul, only to creep
                        back, as a cat creeps back to the mouse with which it is playing, and slowly
                        stretch forth his hand to seize her. This feeling became so strong in Anne
                        that little by little there developed in her a nervous dread of Hamlin:
                        every time that he approached her alone, that he fixed his eyes on her face
                        or addressed her by her name, she was aware of a chill throughout her body,
                        of a sudden pallor in her face; a chill, a pallor which, if noticed, must
                        mean to Hamlin that she loved him.
                    Into this vague and painful suspense were vaguely mingled the suspicions
                        which she had formed regarding Madame Elaguine. Confusedly Anne was
                        conscious that the worthiness or unworthiness of Sacha was not a matter of
                        indifference to her; if Sacha was a mere hysterical liar, she could not
                        sincerely love Hamlin, Hamlin could not
                        love her; and if this man and this woman did not love one another, Anne
                        Brown was once more, what she had for a brief time imagined that she was no
                        longer, the slave of her protector, as Mademoiselle Aïssé had been the slave
                        of M. de Ferréol.
                    Suddenly, one day, there came a change, and with it the end of the terrible
                        doubt and fear which were corroding Miss Brown’s soul. What had happened
                        Anne never clearly understood; she only perceived a change, and guessed that
                        it was connected in some manner with the sudden disappearance of Edmund
                        Lewis, and with some tremendous quarrel between him and Hamlin which seemed
                        to have preceded it. Mr Lewis, who had spent all his mornings in Hamlin’s
                        studio, and all his evenings in Madame Elaguine’s boudoir, appeared to have
                        sunk into the ground; his very name was scarcely mentioned; and Anne Brown,
                        who hated the very sight of the little man with the sealing?wax lips and
                        green cat?like eyes, who instinctively felt that he personified all the peculiarities which degraded Hamlin in
                        her eyes, had a vague superstitious notion that now that he was gone
                        everything would settle happily.
                    What had Lewis done? Had he insulted Madame Elaguine; and had this insulting,
                        by a man who was his friend, of a woman whom he loved, made Hamlin suddenly
                        conscious of his love for Sacha, and of his duty to protect an irresponsible
                        little woman whom his indecision was putting into a false position? The more
                        Miss Brown pored over the subject, the more did it seem as if there could be
                        no other explanation.
                    But whatever the explanation, the result was unmistakable. On the score of
                        ill?health, Madame Elaguine had more or less dismissed all those admiring
                        and sympathising friends who had given Hamlin so much umbrage, and Hamlin
                        had become almost her sole and constant visitor. He appeared to have almost
                        taken up his abode at the Russian’s. He came to Hammersmith for lunch as
                        usual, but always found some excuse or
                        other for leaving immediately after: he was painting a portrait of his
                        cousin, and his cousin was too delicate to give him sittings except in her
                        drawing?room. He not merely neglected Anne, but obviously avoided her. He
                        seemed to dread being left alone with her, as much as she, for such very
                        different reasons, had dreaded to be left alone with him: when he did not
                        succeed in getting away, he was moody and depressed; yet he seemed moody and
                        depressed also whenever, as was frequently the case, he was sent for by his
                        cousin, and whenever Anne met them together.
                    It seemed to Miss Brown as if she could understand it all so well: she, who
                        was slow in understanding others, felt as if she knew Hamlin’s character as
                        her own father must have known the construction and working of the machines
                        which she remembered seeing him continually taking to pieces and setting up
                        again. Hamlin had been, so Anne thought, obliged to admit to himself that he
                        loved his cousin, and that he had made her
                        love him; and he was depressed and irritated at his own inability to take
                        any decided course, at his humiliation in finding that this was the end of
                        all his romance with Anne, at his dread of being obliged, sooner or later,
                        to tell Anne the truth; nay, Miss Brown thought she knew Hamlin sufficiently
                        well to be persuaded that there entered into his feelings a certain
                        annoyance at having to forfeit the exotic and unhealthy pleasure of being
                        partially in love with two women at a time, and at the impetuosity of Sacha
                        precipitating matters from a position of hesitation and self?reproach, which
                        was in some ways pleasant to his peculiar temper, into a situation requiring
                        a definite and prompt solution.
                    Oh, Anne had not suffered silently these two years, without getting to
                        understand the strange character to which her suffering was due. Yes, she
                        knew Hamlin and what was passing in his mind; and the sense of power implied
                        in this knowledge, the power of following all that he felt and thought, gave her a sort of
                        pleasure, proportionate to that very sense of her difficulty in
                        understanding any character save her own; a curious rare pleasure, in which
                        mingled the consciousness of the price at which it had been bought, and the
                        almost ineffable consciousness that this that she was studying concerned her
                        no more; the pleasure, so often talked about, of the man who has escaped the
                        shipwreck and looks down upon the dangerous waters in safety. Yes; she was
                        safe; she was free.
                    It gave her a morbid pleasure also to watch Madame Elaguine, who, in the last
                        month or so, ever since the quarrel with Edmund Lewis and the consequent
                        intimacy with her cousin, had suddenly changed in her manner towards
                        Anne—had shown a half?savage, half?childish desire to parade her conquest
                        before her rival, to let her see how completely she had taken Hamlin away
                        from her, to humiliate and insult her: the flaunting perversity of a new
                        sultana towards an old one. Anne had hitherto 
                            in? sisted
                            insisted
                         on thinking that Madame Elaguine was really a very noble little
                        woman, and this revelation of a base wish to wound and humiliate, hurt her
                        at first like some nauseous smell arising suddenly beneath her nostrils. But
                        disgust was soon replaced by that new and secret pleasure in the
                        consciousness of understanding this woman better than she understood
                        herself; by the pleasure in feeling how wasted were all Madame Elaguine’s
                        insults—how startled would not the little woman be, could she but know that
                        every proof of her supremacy over Hamlin was to Miss Brown as each
                        successively sawed?through window?bar is to the prisoner pining for the day
                        of deliverance.
                    Anne felt herself getting into so singular a condition of excitement, losing
                        so completely, under the pressure of these conflicting doubts and hopes in
                        the past, of the great joy in the present, all her usual self?composure and
                        self?control, that she took fiercely to working, to hurrying in every way
                        through those studies which she had long
                        since begun in the sickening often?deferred hope that they might become her
                        livelihood if she should ever be released from Hamlin. Miss Brown had often
                        and often, even when the sense of hopelessness had been bitterest, consoled
                        herself with what she believed to be unrealisable dreams for the future; and
                        after going through many possible plans, she had decided that if—if—she
                        should ever become her own mistress, she would employ, resolutely determined
                        to return it to him some day, part of the money which Hamlin had settled
                        upon her, in entering Girton or Newnham, where she would train herself to
                        become a teacher in a public school. Almost mechanically, her studies (and
                        restlessness, and the desire for something that should not be the harassing
                        reality, had developed in her a perfect passion for study) fell into this
                        programme. She had gone in for political economy, history, and what people
                        are pleased to call moral sciences.
                    Now that liberty seemed on the point of
                        being realised, and that she felt the want of something to steady her shaken
                        nature, she applied herself to this work with redoubled ardour.
                    “If you go on like that you will get seedy, Annie,” warned the practical
                        Marjory Leigh, now on the eve of becoming Mrs Harry Collett.
                    And Marjory Leigh proved right. The secret excitement of the last months,
                        joined to the recent overwork, was too much for Anne. One day she was
                        suddenly taken ill, and a little time later she was delirious.
                    “Nervous prostration from overwork,” said the doctors.
                    A great remorse, which was at the same time a great triumph, rose up in
                        Hamlin’s heart.
                    “Sacha,” he cried, one day as Madame Elaguine came into the studio at
                        Hammersmith, after visiting the sick woman, “it is I who am killing Anne;
                        and it is you—you—who are forcing me to do it,”—and he tore the portrait of Madame Elaguine off the board of his
                        easel, and pulled the paper, in long ribbons, through his fingers.
                    “It’s no great harm,” said the Russian, quietly; “I’m not quite such a guy as
                        you represented me, Watty, and I’m the better pleased not to go down to
                        posterity like that. As to Anne, don’t flatter yourself you are breaking her
                        heart, for the excellent reason that there is none to break. Too much study!
                        the doctor says, and he knows. A woman like that works only with her brain.
                        Too much Euclid, Kant, Hegel, Fichte, &c. You needn’t flatter
                        yourself that you are of the company. Seriously, can you be
                        such a baby as to imagine that if that woman loved you she wouldn’t have
                        turned me out of doors ages ago? Besides, she talked only of Girton College
                        and of her cousin Richard when she was delirious, the nurse tells me.”
                    Madame Elaguine watched Hamlin as she let these words drop, then she burst
                        out laughing.
                    
                    “Poor Walter! what a misfortune it is to be a poet and to be vain! I am
                        really grieved for you. But sooner or later you would understand that when a
                        woman has no heart, but only ‘a muscle for pumping the blood to the
                        extremities,’ as one of her professors calls it, she can’t love; and that,
                        moreover, no woman will ever understand or love you, you silly person,
                        except your cousin Sacha.”
                    Cosmo Chough, who had come to the studio door, and, not being troubled with
                        scruples when base creatures like Madame Elaguine were concerned, and
                        having, moreover, a violent curiosity about everything concerning the
                        Eternal Feminine, had listened at the keyhole, affirmed to Miss Brown some
                        time after that Madame Elaguine had then and there put her arms round
                        Hamlin’s neck, and called him a poor, vain little baby.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    ON recovering from that long delirium, during which she had raved
                        only about the past and the future, about Miss Curzon, the Perrys, the Villa
                        Arnolfini, Cousin Dick, Girton College, and political economy, but never—by
                        some singular obliviousness of the present—about Hamlin and Sacha,—the first
                        persons that Anne Brown recognised about her were the Leigh girls. Marjory
                        had postponed her marriage in order to help her sister in nursing Miss
                        Brown; and Mrs Macgregor had gladly accepted their proposal to settle for
                        the time being in the house at Hammersmith, she herself being far too
                        unpractical to be of any use. Anne’s impressions were vague, diffuse; the
                        ideas aud sensations, the slight amount of life of one day of early convalescence being, so to
                        speak, diluted into what were really days and weeks, day and night
                        succeeding each other confusedly to the girl, but feebly awake and for ever
                        falling asleep. It was a dream, but a pleasant one, consisting of veiled
                        misty impressions, separated by tracts of lethargy: impressions of the kind
                        faces and voices of Mary and Marjory, of the gleams of sunshine on the
                        carpet, of the waving of treetops outside the window, of the whistle of the
                        steamboat on the Thames; the song of the canary in the housekeeper’s
                        room—the cry of the milkman; of the bunches of big red and yellow roses put
                        down upon the sheet before her; of the broth and jelly and tea feebly
                        refused, and yet greedily swallowed,—trifles, nothings, but transformed by
                        the haze of mixed weakness and relief into things possessing a charm, and
                        never to be forgotten.
                    The mere sense of rest and renovation constituted a sort of happiness, with
                        which mingled the consciousness of the kindness of those round her,—of the Leigh girls and Mrs Macgregor,
                        who were in her room nearly all day; of Mrs Spencer, who came from the other
                        end of London every afternoon; of Chough and Cousin Dick, who came to make
                        inquiries; even of Hamlin, whose magnificent bundles and baskets of flowers
                        and fruit arrived regularly, together with the bunch of sweet?peas and pinks
                        which Chough had bought at the greengrocer’s, or the sprigs of laburnum
                        which he had stolen in the park. Everything in the world seemed so good and
                        simple; all worries and doubts had gone with the dreadful visions of the
                        delirious nights. Anne had never in her life felt so simply, completely
                        happy; perhaps because, with her tense and tragic character, perfect
                        happiness was possible only in weakness and vagueness.
                    Little by little the past became concrete once more; but it became concrete
                        as the past, all her doubts and difficulties remaining far distant behind
                        her, like the Alps which the traveller has arduously crossed, and looks
                            back upon from the warm Lombard plain.
                        She took up her position and feelings where she had left them: she felt
                        herself free. At first she could scarcely tell why, as we sometimes can
                        scarcely account to ourselves for something which has happened the previous
                        day, and which, though forgotten, fills us with vague pleasure or pain on
                        awakening. Then she began to understand once more, and to add to her
                        recollections what she could make out of the present. She noticed that the
                        Leighs scarcely ever spoke of Hamlin; that they brought in his flowers,
                        books, and messages with a certain constraint, even, she thought, with an
                        occasional look of disgust and indignation. And they never, never once
                        mentioned Madame EIaguine.
                    “What has become of Sacha Elaguine?” she asked one day, rolling her head,
                        with face even paler than before, and black crisp hair just beginning to
                        cluster after cropping short, on the pillows. “Has she gone out of town? You
                        have never spoken about her, Mary.”
                    
                    Mary Leigh, who was seated, holding Anne’s thin white hand, did not raise her
                        head; and Marjory, who was pouring out the tea hard by, flushed scarlet.
                    “Haven’t I? Oh yes, I must,” answered Mary Leigh, still keeping her eyes on
                        the pattern of the carpet. “Madame Elaguine? Oh, she’s just as usual.”
                    “Odious little brute,” scowled Marjory.
                    Mary raised her head sharply, and gave her sister a look of reproof.
                    Anne asked no more. She had understood: during her illness Sacha had
                        tightened her hold on Hamlin; the Leighs had seen it, or been told, and Mary
                        was afraid lest her sister should let out to the invalid what she imagined
                        to be a heart?breaking secret.
                    “I am free!” thought Anne; and repeated these words to herself every time
                        that one of the Leighs spoke coldly of Hamlin, or looked savage when he was
                        mentioned. And sometimes she fancied that she could distinguish in the face
                        and manner of the true?hearted Mary, of
                        the indignant Marjory, the pain and perplexity of foreseeing that they
                        possessed a terrible secret, that they must make a terrible revelation.
                        Once, she felt sure, Mary’s heart had almost burst for her silence. Miss
                        Leigh had brought in Hamlin’s usual gift of flowers, a bunch of beautiful
                        white roses and jasmine; she was going to hand it to Anne, when her face
                        suddenly contracted, and she stuffed the flowers roughly into a jar.
                    “Won’t you let me smell Mr Hamlin’s flowers, Mary?” asked Anne from her
                        bed.
                    Mary Leigh gave her a long strange look.
                    “They aren’t fit for you, Anne,” said Mary, in a hoarse voice; “they’re
                        horrible, morbid sort of things—they’ll just make your head ache.”
                    “My head is much stronger than you think,” said Anne; “let me have them—they
                        are lovely. The jasmine doesn’t smell like ordinary jasmine. What is it?—it
                        smells like the incense that Sacha Elaguine burns in her boudoir; it’s nice,
                        but too strong. I wonder whether they have
                        been in her boudoir to catch it. It’s very kind of Mr Hamlin to bring them
                        to me, especially as”—Anne looked up with a smile which frightened Mary
                        Leigh out of her wits—“he doesn’t care a bit about me any longer, you
                        know.”
                    Mary Leigh threw herself on her knees before Anne’s bed, and drawing her head
                        to her, kissed her.
                    “Oh, Annie, Annie, my darling!” she cried.
                    “You are good,” answered Anne—“you are good to love me so. But Mr Hamlin is
                        also very good, although he doesn’t love me. I am very happy—so happy, Mary
                        dear.”
                    “She is mad,” thought Mary, in terror, as Anne threw her head back, smiling,
                        her onyx?grey eyes beaming, on the pillow. And she resolved that, as long as
                        she could help, Anne Brown should not know what she knew, and what, every
                        time that Hamlin’s name was mentioned, sickened her heart.
                    Some days later Miss Brown was sufficiently well to exchange her bed for a
                        couch in the drawing?room down?stairs; and
                        then Hamlin asked whether he might be admitted to see her for a few minutes.
                        He seemed painfully impressed at the sight of Anne, whom he was accustomed
                        to see looking the embodiment of physical strength, a sort of primeval
                        warrior?woman, stretched out on the sofa, so thin and hollow?checked, so
                        pale, with a pallor quite different from the natural opaque ivory pallor of
                        her complexion; so weak of voice and gesture, so wholly despoiled, it seemed
                        to him, of her usual sombre haughtiness: resigned, and with the gentleness
                        of a sick child. He was silent and depressed, as a man might be who knew her
                        to be more seriously ill than she thought; and yet, as Anne was well aware,
                        it was most obvious to him and to every one that she was entirely out of
                        danger, and rapidly recovering. Miss Brown understood: he was weighed down,
                        but with a worse conscience than Mary Leigh,—by the thought that this woman
                        was unaware of the sort of treachery which was being committed behind her
                            back. Anne, on the other hand, felt
                        more really pleased to see him than she had done this long time past; it
                        seemed as if, now that the bond which tied her to him was loosened, she
                        could see once more all that was amiable and noble in him,—that she could
                        like him again, feel towards him simply, naturally, as towards a friend and
                        benefactor. And she felt sorry for his depression, for what she imagined to
                        be his self?reproach; desirous of telling him almost, then and there, that
                        he need not make himself unhappy, that he was free to love his cousin.
                    Miss Brown was still unfit for much conversation; and Hamlin seemed glad to
                        cut short the interview. She asked him to raise one of the blinds; and when
                        the light streamed upon his face, she thought she saw in it something
                        unusual, something beyond his mere usual melancholy, a lassitude and look of
                        being worried; again she felt sorry for him.
                    “How is your cousin Sacha?” she asked.
                    “She is well,” he answered briefly, “and
                        —sends you many messages. I don’t let her come, because she would excite
                        you. Goodbye.”
                    Every afternoon Hamlin returned for a short time. Anne’s first impression was
                        merely strengthened; Hamlin was extraordinarily depressed, worried?looking,
                        taciturn. Anne felt really sorry for him; he was evidently, she thought,
                        eating his heart out in doubts and self?reproach; he had gone too far with
                        Sacha to retreat, and yet his engagement to Miss Brown forbade his taking a
                        decisive step. After all, he was truer and nobler than she had thought, more
                        of her real Hamlin of former days; she reflected that this hostility of
                        temperament and aims between them, this long and sickening endurance of a
                        bond which suited neither, had made her unjust and bitter towards him, prone
                        to seek for only his worse sides, neglectful of his good ones. She felt that
                        it was not the least benefit of her release that she could now be perfectly
                        grateful once more; that she could give to this man the affection which he really deserved, and which she
                        really felt, now that the terrible debt of love was cancelled. She was
                        sorry, very sorry for him, and determined that, since he had not the heart,
                        it was for her to speak. But invariably, and as if warned by a secret
                        intuition, he had interrupted the conversation, and gone away whenever she
                        had been on the point of speaking. The bare name of Madame Elaguine seemed
                        enough to send him away; and yet, whenever Anne succeeded in making him
                        speak of his cousin, he had spoken of her with a strange bitterness, and
                        almost disgust.
                    “He is mean, after all,” thought Anne; “he is angry with poor Sacha for being
                        the cause of his finding himself in a false position.” And she determined
                        that she would speak, not to him but to Madame Elaguine; she felt that she
                        could not endure the way in which he would assuredly seek to whitewash
                        himself at his cousin’s expense. Mean, very mean; nay, something more than
                        mean. What irritation or hypocrisy could induce him to speak of the woman whom he loved with a sort of
                        constant innuendo, a constant sort of undercurrent of disgust?
                    And again she began to despise and dislike him. Another thing soon struck
                        her. There was something unusual about Hamlin’s appearance. Somewhat
                        effeminate he had always been in his aristocratic refinement; but now it
                        seemed to her as if there were in his face a something, half physical, half
                        spiritual, a vague, helpless, half?stupefied look, which made her think of
                        that hysterical tippling little poet Dennistoun, whom she disliked so much.
                        Her mind reverted to what she had heard about Edmund Lewis having, at one
                        period, induced Hamlin to take opium.
                    “Is Mr Lewis back?” she asked.
                    Hamlin flushed all over.
                    “Lewis is not likely to return,” he answered briefly.
                    What was the meaning of it all? Hamlin was also, she noticed, no longer as
                        careful in his dress as he had formerly been; there was something vaguely rowdy about him. And once, as
                        he stooped over her to rearrange the cushions under her head, it seemed to
                        her—was it true or not?—that she felt a sickening whiff, like those which
                        she well remembered since her childhood, when her father had come in from
                        drinking and taken her on his knees.
                    Was it possible that Hamlin, weak as he was, and feeling himself cornered in
                        a false position, had taken to drinking—to drinking, which had been the
                        fatal vice of his family, of his brother, father, and of his uncles, in
                        order to rid himself of his worries?
                    She must speak to Madame Elaguine. She must let them know that they were
                        free.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    WHILE she was in this perplexity about Hamlin, Miss Brown received a
                        visit from her cousin Dick. She had scarcely seen him, and never alone,
                        since that memorable walk home from Professor Richmond’s lecture. Whether
                        from the sense that he had gone too far, that his violence had offended and
                        frightened her; or whether, more probably, from his having rushed to the
                        conclusion that she was unattainable and perhaps unworthy of his seeking,
                        Richard Brown had kept studiously out of her way.
                    For the first time in his life he came in with hesitation and almost shyness.
                        He sat down by the side of her arm?chair, and spoke with a gentleness, a
                        courtesy, that were quite unusual in him,
                        and had a charm just from their contrast with his downright and gruff
                        personality. The conversation rolled upon various indifferent subjects; he
                        seemed to be feeling his way to something, trying to decide whether she was
                        strong enough to admit of his saying something which weighed on his
                        mind.
                    “You are nearly recovered now?” he asked. “Do you feel as if you were getting
                        your strength back, Anne?”
                    “Oh yes,” she answered; “I feel wonderfully well. I have been for a drive
                        these last few days, and I am sure I could walk, if only they would let me.
                        I only feel very tired and lazy every now and then.”
                    There was a pause.
                    “Do you remember what you told me that afternoon when we walked home from
                        Richmond’s lecture—a rainy day at the end of March?” he asked suddenly.
                    “Yes, I do.”
                    “You said, if you remember, that you did not care for Mr Hamlin, and that you
                            felt yourself bound to him only by
                        gratitude and the sense that he wanted you—do you remember, Nan?”
                    “I remember perfectly. Well?”
                    Richard Brown had spoken slowly and watching her face; and he seemed
                        surprised at the perfect calm which he read in it.
                    “Well, I think it is right that you should know what is by this time known by
                        all your acquaintances. Walter Hamlin no longer wants you; he has entirely
                        thrown you over for another woman. He is—I don’t know exactly what to call
                        it, and don’t mean any innuendo—well—the accepted lover of Madame
                        Elaguine.”
                    Anne nodded.
                    “I know it,” she answered coolly. “I have known it, or at least guessed it,
                        since a long while.”
                    Richard was surprised, and, unconsciously perhaps to himself, mortified. He
                        had always resented his cousin’s fidelity to Hamlin, had always, with his
                        tendency to seek for base motives wherever
                        he could not sympathise, suspected that this fidelity was a mere cover for
                        an unworthy love of the fine æsthetic gentleman or for his fortune and
                        position; and he had anticipated a certain pleasure in seeing Anne wince
                        beneath his revelation.
                    “It is no business of mine to pass a judgment over Mr Hamlin,” he proceeded
                        slowly, and wondering, suspicious as he always was with women, of the
                        genuineness of Anne’s imperturbability; “the whole business seems to me
                        quite consonant with all my notions of his character.”
                    “I do not think Mr Hamlin has acted dishonourably towards me,” put in Anne,
                        quietly; “on the contrary, I feel sure that he reproaches himself much more
                        than he need.”
                    “Very likely. What I was going to say is merely that this new turn which
                        matters have taken necessarily implies an entire change in your position
                        towards Mr Hamlin. He no longer wants you; you are therefore free. Am I
                        correct in my view of the case?”
                    
                    He was speaking with a deference to her opinion quite new in him.
                    “As far as I can judge,” answered Anne, playing with a big lapis?lazuli
                        rosary which she had taken off her neck, “I think you are quite correct,
                        Dick. I believe I am free.”
                    She hesitated and spoke the last words almost inaudibly, as if
                        superstitiously afraid that they should be heard.
                    “In that case I presume you will have to remodel your life. Have you thought
                        of any plans?”
                    “I have thought over the matter a good deal. My intention, as soon as Mr
                        Hamlin and I have come to an explanation, which will be shortly, is to go to
                        Ireland for a few months with Mary Leigh, to finish getting well and to
                        finish some preparatory work, and then to go up to Girton. I should be able
                        to pass the entrance examination in another three months. You see,” she
                        added, “Mr Hamlin, in spending the money that he has in turning me into a lady, has made it difficult for me to
                        take to any such livelihood as would have naturally been mine under other
                        circumstances; and I think, therefore, that I have a right to invest a
                        portion of the money which he has settled upon me, and which he fully
                        intended me to keep in any ease, in qualifying myself for the only sort of
                        business for which I am now fit. He has settled upon me the equivalent of
                        five hundred a?year, apart from the expenses of this house, of which I know
                        nothing. Much less than that would more than cover the expenses of keeping
                        me at Girton and of starting me as a teacher or journalist; and once fairly
                        started, I hope I should be able to support myself and gradually to refund
                        this money. Do you think that would be fair, Dick? You see, it is quite
                        useless for me to think of ever repaying, even if money could repay in such
                        matters, what Mr Hamlin has spent upon me during all these years.”
                    She seemed to hesitate, to be afraid of being mean, of appearing to take advantage of Hamlin’s generosity.
                    “Do you really contemplate renouncing the fortune which Mr Hamlin settled on
                        you? giving up all the luxury to which he has accustomed you, Annie?”
                    Richard Brown, disinterested though he was, was too deeply impressed with the
                        mercenary temper of mankind, to believe very easily in such sentiments.
                    “Why, of course,” answered Anne. “When Mr Hamlin marries his cousin, he will
                        find, that he has not too much with all his money. And I would certainly not
                        keep any of it as soon as I could do without; though heaven knows I am not
                        ungrateful, nor so silly as to fancy that I should be in the very least
                        lightening my obligation towards him.”
                    Richard did not answer for a moment. “Listen,” he said, not without
                        hesitation “I am nearer to you than Walter Hamlin and whatever I am, I owe
                        it to your father. I find I have just made a very 
                            consider able
                            considerable
                         and quite unexpected profit off some mining shares which Mr
                        Gillespie left me. Let me advance you out of this money whatever may be
                        wanted to defray your expenses at college; you will repay me when you find
                        it convenient. In this way, you will be entirely independent of Mr Hamlin at
                        once: you can let him have all his money.”
                    Richard Brown hesitated, in a way very singular in his cut?and?dry nature; he
                        seemed prepared for a rebuff.
                    “You are very kind, Dick; but I can’t accept your offer. I owe it to Mr
                        Hamlin, in return for all the generosity he has shown towards me and would
                        still show, that I should never accept anything from any man but him, even
                        if I were not resolved never to put myself under such an obligation again. I
                        have no right to prefer your generosity to his.”
                    Richard Brown was silent. Then, after a moment, they fell to talking about
                        the plans and theories which occupied Cousin Dick’s mind. He was unusually
                        gentle and modest; he really seemed to be
                        losing some of that narrowness which had been the ugly side of his powerful
                        and upright nature.
                    “You are becoming quite tolerant, Dick,” remarked Anne. “Six months ago you
                        could never have conceived that any one unlike yourself or differing from
                        your views could have anything good in him. I am very glad; it will make you
                        more hopeful of the world, and show you a lot of energy and good faith which
                        deserves to be united to your own, and which you would formerly have thrown
                        upon the dust?heap.”
                    “You are right,” answered Brown. “I feel that I have diminished my own
                        usefulness by not admitting any other kind of usefulness than my own. I
                        often catch myself thinking, now, that my great danger lies in my tendency
                        to underrate people; sometimes it seems as if, unless I can struggle against
                        it, it will invade and sterilise my whole nature.”
                    “I am so glad you feel like that, Dick.”
                    “And do you know,” he continued, “I think
                        this change is due to you; knowing you has shown me how horribly
                        unreasonable and unjust I am apt to be in my preconceived notions. I really
                        did think you an æsthete once, Annie; nay, at one time, I was so base as to
                        think that you were base, that you cared for Hamlin’s position and money and
                        good looks, while not caring for him. Will you forgive me, Annie?”
                    He bent over her, and took her hand. She let him hold it for a minute. She
                        felt so strangely free, so safe, so happy somehow with this man, whose
                        presence had so often been a threat and an insult.
                    “I wonder whether you will ever learn to be just to Mr Hamlin,” she
                        mused.
                    “I will do my best.”
                    She had withdrawn her hand from his.
                    “I wonder whether I have ever been just to Mr Hamlin,” said Anne.
                    Richard reddened.
                    “What makes you say that, Nan?”
                    “I don’t know. I feel how difficult it is
                        for a nature like mine to be just towards, to understand, any one outside
                        it.”
                    “Can you be just towards me?” he suddenly asked.
                    “I am, I think.”
                    “Do you think, then,” went on Richard Brown, “that during the time you spend
                        at Girton you could try a little and understand me,—you could try and like
                        me a little, Annie?”
                    “I do like you, Richard,” she answered coldly; but a quiet happiness, like
                        that of a windless, half?covered morning in the fields, stole over her.
                    “I don’t mean this,” he said, rising. “I want you to like me, Nan, as much—as
                        much as you thought you liked Walter Hamlin.”
                    Anne shook her head sadly.
                    “That is quite impossible,” she said: “one doesn’t feel like that twice, I
                        fancy, Richard, any more than one believes twice in angels or such
                        things.”
                    
                    Richard Brown frowned. She could never pluck Hamlin, Hamlin in some shape,
                        real or false, out of her heart.
                    “Good?bye,” he said; “I fear I have tired you. Annie,” he added, “it is
                        idiotic, isn’t it? but all the time you were ill, even until I came into
                        this room, I kept hoping that you might have lost your looks—that Hamlin
                        might be quite unable ever to care for you again—that you might have ceased
                        to be, in this sort of way, above me. And yet, when I saw you, I was glad it
                        was not so. Oh, Nan, promise me you will try and like me a little.”
                    “Please don’t say that, Dick. I have been a slave, a prisoner. Can’t you
                        understand that my great joy is the sense of my freedom, my sense of
                        belonging to no one, caring about no one? Can’t you understand that it seems
                        horrible to me to even think that I could ever care for any one again? Can’t
                        you let me enjoy my liberty, at least until I have realised that it isn’t a
                        dream?”
                    
                    She spoke with impetuosity, but gently; and her cousin did not feel
                        rebuked.
                    “By the way,” he said, “I suppose you have heard who is expected here
                        soon—your old friend, Melton Perry.”
                    “Melton Perry!” cried Anne. It seemed such centuries since she had heard that
                        name last. “Oh, I shall be so glad to see him, he is such a good man!”
                    She walked up and down after Dick had left.
                    Melton Perry! the name brought up the far, far distant past—a vision of the
                        untidy house at Florence; of Mrs Perry’s lean and Sapphic profile; of the
                        tall grass and crushed herbs in the vineyard of the Villa Arnolfini; of
                        Hamlin as she had first known him—a mysterious, unattainable ideal high
                        above her; of the studio at the top of the tower; of herself, as she
                        recollected herself to have been, a sombre, unhappy creature, with whose
                        identity she seemed to have no connection, and into whose dark and confused mind she felt unable to
                        see. There was something very painful in this sudden return of the past in
                        company with her old friend, and Anne thought bitterly of the difference
                        between the dreams of happiness, so positive, so perfect, of those days, and
                        the reality of happiness, so negative, so poor—consisting in what? in being
                        left to herself—which belonged to her now. And yet, after all, as she looked
                        into her girlhood before Hamlin’s coming, she recognised the same
                        negativeness; she had wished to be free, to be a daily governess, to depend
                        upon no one for her livelihood, to be able to know something of a wider
                        life. She had never hoped, scarcely even wished, for happiness; the
                        semblance of it had passed before her eyes, had, for a brief time, made her
                        life more acutely sensitive; but she returned to the negative: it was the
                        law of her life.
                    And, as she cleared her mind of all vain regrets, she became aware that, in a
                            manner, this return upon her scene of
                        Melton Perry was like the ringing of the bell, the orchestral flourish,
                        which ends a piece as it has begun it. The comedy of her love for Hamlin,
                        and of Hamlin’s love for her, was over; and she felt impatient for Melton
                        Perry’s arrival.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    THE day after this visit from Cousin Dick, came the first visit from
                        Madame Elaguine. It seemed to Anne that, from the very moment of her
                        entering the room, she could perceive something strange in Sacha’s
                        manner—something brazen, flaunting, cruel. The little woman somehow no
                        longer looked so small and that childish appealingness had entirely left her
                        manner; she was self?possessed, cynical, triumphant. Her very dress was
                        different from anything in which Miss Brown had hitherto seen her; exotic
                        indeed and fantastic, like everything that she wore, but certainly not
                        turned out by Madame Elaguine’s maid. She kissed Anne familiarly on both
                        cheeks, enveloping her in an atmosphere of heady Eastern perfumes.
                    
                    “Poor Annie,” she said, “you have been very ill, and must have thought me a
                        great brute for not coming to see you before. But Walter absolutely forbade
                        my coming—stood in front of your door, so to speak, and shut it in my face.
                        He pretended that I should have excited you too much. Perhaps I should; I am
                        a wretched, excitable creature. Perhaps he was right; what do you think?”
                        Madame Elaguine fixed her eyes on those of Anne; a long look of scrutiny and
                        triumph, as if she had expected to see her wince.
                    “I think Mr Hamlin was quite mistaken,” answered Miss Brown quietly,
                        understanding the meaning of that look. “I am much less subject to
                        excitement than he supposes; and your presence would not have excited me
                        more than any one else’s.”
                    “Really!” and Madame Elaguine’s mouth took a peculiar little sneering turn;
                        “I should have thought that I was exciting, now. Not more
                        exciting, for instance, than the Miss Leighs? or than your cousin, Mr
                            Richard Brown?” and she again looked
                        scrutinisingly at Anne, who merely shook her head. “By the way, your cousin
                        has quite cut me of late, Annie—ask him why. I suspect that he thinks me a
                        dangerous woman, quite without moral ballast,—what my German teacher used to
                        call Sittlicher Ernst. He was such a funny
                        creature that German teacher of mine; did I ever tell you about him? He
                        taught at the school where I was in Petersburg: a thin lank creature, with
                        long red wrists projecting a yard from his sleeves, and a waistcoat which
                        would ride up whenever he was excited; he used to lean against the wall, any
                        part of his body at random, and bend and sway the rest of him about, like a
                        caterpillar. He taught us German literature, and was very shocked because I
                        said the ‘Bride of Corinth’ was the only amusing thing Goethe had ever
                        written. He believed in Schopenhauer—and hated women, and me in particular,
                        because I had no Sittlicher Ernst; and one
                        day, what do you think he did? he fell on his knees and tried to catch me round the waist. Poor devil! he was
                        turned out of doors, and drowned himself later. I wonder whether it was out
                        of despair at my want of Sittlicher Ernst?
                        He was such a queer creature. I sometimes think, after all, he was the only
                        man I could really have loved, if only his waistcoat had not ridden up, and
                        his wrists projected so much from his cuffs.”
                    Sacha laughed, and bit her lower lip a little, so that it suddenly became
                        scarlet, like the lips of Edmund Lewis. She threw herself back in her chair,
                        one foot crossed over the other, her eyes fixed on the Venetian chandelier,
                        which caught opalescent lights in the sunshine; she was smiling, perhaps in
                        recollection of the professor with his wrists and his waistcoat.
                    Anne did not know what to say; the presence of this woman seemed to freeze
                        her, like the contact of some clammy thing: it was as if the soul of Edmund
                        Lewis had entered her body and had become more active, more subtle in its new habitation. Mechanically her
                        eyes rested upon Madame Elaguine’s dress, a marvellous vague thing, made in
                        some confused resemblance of the men’s dress of Moliére’s time,—a crimson
                        plush coat and a big man’s cravat of Flanders lace, but all bursting out, by
                        every conceivable slashing and gap, into a mass of lace, which hung about
                        her like a cloud of thistle?down, beneath which her thin and nervous little
                        body seemed to twist and writhe with every word.
                    “It’s a pretty frock, isn’t it?” she remarked, looking down upon it with
                        satisfaction. “Oh no, I didn’t make this; I am bored with always making my
                        own frocks. It’s from Worth. I swore I would bring round Watty from belief
                        in pre?Adamitic skirts and purfled sleeves and eighteen?penny medievalism to
                        a belief in Worth; you know he used always to rant at Paris clothes. Well,
                        I’ve been as good as my word; this is from Worth, and what’s more, Walter
                        has paid my bill. Humiliating, rather, isn’t it? but then, you see, I’m a
                            pauper, and can’t buy Worth frocks on
                        a thousand a?year, including subscription for a copy of Chough’s new
                        translation of ‘Villon,’ with all the improprieties annotated, Dutch paper,
                        morocco, rough edges, price three guineas, can I?”
                    Anne flushed. Hamlin had paid for Sacha’s dress! And yet, had Hamlin not paid
                        for not merely one, but all Anne’s dresses these years—nay, for everything
                        that Anne saw about her—nay, for everything almost that Anne knew and was?
                        And still, how was it, there was a difference? and as she looked at Sacha in
                        her fantastic Molière coat of crimson plush and watered white silk and lace,
                        which Hamlin had paid for, she could not get out of her mind the image of
                        certain French kept women whom she had seen, in their elaborate dresses and
                        well?appointed victorias, driving in the Park. It was very unjust and
                        horrible, yet she could not get it out of her mind.
                    “Walter is a queer creature,” went on Madame Elaguine; “somewhat like my 
                            Ger? man
                            German
                         caterpillar professor: I don’t mean in the matter of wrists and
                        waistcoats, but in the matter of women. I don’t know how to say it; my ideas
                        aren’t ever very clear: I suppose it’s want of Sittlicher Ernst, and also because I’m hysterical—at least
                        the doctors say so; because I insist on having my own way. I mean that
                        Walter, for instance, hates me in a certain sense just as that professor
                        did. I’m sure he sometimes feels as if he could throttle me, because I have
                        no Sittlicher Ernst, and because I made
                        love to him, and offered him barley?sugar and tops when I was ten. And yet!
                        Ah, well, I suppose I am a wretch! Oh, Annie dear, I fear, I fear I am a
                        wretch!” and Madame Elaguine suddenly jumped up from her chair and flung her
                        arms round Miss Brown’s neck and kissed her, with such violence that Anne
                        felt her lips almost like leeches and her teeth pressing into her
                        cheeks.
                    “Oh Annie, I am an unworthy wretch! I am a beast towards you!” she cried.
                    Anne felt a horror, a kind of fear of death; and yet she felt sorry for this woman; was she not a wretch in not
                        clearing up the position—in letting this woman continue to love in shame,
                        when she might love openly and honourably? She loosened herself from Sacha’s
                        embrace.
                    “Madame Elaguine” she began, feeling her face still burning from this
                        strangling embrace, and mechanically smoothing her ruffled hair, “I have
                        long wanted to tell you something with regard to Mr Hamlin—indeed I feel I
                        ought to have told it you before, but . . .” At this moment the door opened
                        and Hamlin entered.
                    Anne had missed her opportunity; it was impossible to speak before Hamlin,
                        although she had once or twice contemplated clearing up matters to him and
                        his cousin at the same time. But it was impossible now. Sacha had something
                        strange, brazen, about her, which froze Anne’s soul. Hamlin was listless,
                        depressed, with that hang?dog, stupefied air that Miss Brown had noticed in
                        him of late. He spoke little, barely
                        answered any of Sacha’s remarks: every time that he raised his eyes upon his
                        cousin, it was with an expression that amounted almost to disgust; and she
                        seemed nowise hurt, but rather amused and pleased at this look, and took a
                        pleasure in provoking it by a hundred absurdities, and by a sort of bullying
                        way, as if expressly to show her power over this sullen creature.
                    They did not stay long. Madame Elaguine rose, and Hamlin mechanically
                        followed her example: was it that he could not see her go away by herself,
                        or that he was afraid of being left alone with Miss Brown?
                    “This is my first visit to you since your illness, and it will be my last for
                        a little time,” said Madame Elaguine, letting Hamlin help her on with her
                        cloak, and spinning out the operation, as if to show that this depressed and
                        sullen creature, for all his sulkiness, was her slave.
                    “Are you going away?” cried Anne, a sudden fear entering her heart. Sacha 
                            no? ticed
                            noticed
                         her involuntary flush, and mistook its meaning.
                    “Only for a fortnight,” she answered, with an odd smile. “Oh no; I can’t do
                        without London and my friends—hideous London and disagreeable friends, at
                        least so far as Walter is concerned. I suppose it’s my perversity and want
                        of Sittlicher Ernst, again. I am going to
                        Paris this evening. I have a notion of taking Boris out of his English
                        school and sending him to the Lycée. I feel I have had a surfeit of
                        respectability and æstheticism, and that I’d rather my son were a Frenchman
                        and a Bohemian. It’s a whim. Perhaps it will make me return a frantic
                        Anglomaniac. Fancy if Boris were to grow up a thing like this!” pointing to
                        Hamlin,—“a horrible pseudo Sir Galahad, as Watty was at sixteen. Faugh! I
                        couldn’t bear it. Good?bye, Annie dear; I fear you must think me an immoral
                        woman, and that my German professor wasn’t so far wrong. Good?bye, my
                        beautiful Madonna of the Glaciers,” and again Miss Brown was half stifled in the cloud of oriental perfumes, as
                        Madame Elaguine kissed her cavalierly on both cheeks.
                    “Come along, Watty!” cried Sacha; “can’t you learn to open the door for a
                        woman?”
                    “Good?bye, Miss Brown,” and Hamlin gave a little sigh of weariness as he
                        pressed Anne’s hand.
                    Miss Brown remained in a state of vague fear all that day. Was that love—at
                        least on Hamlin’s part—that look of bored disgust with which he had
                        responded to Madame Elaguine’s provocation? Anne grew pale at the notion of
                        that fortnight of Sacha’s absence. Would Hamlin, fickle, easily wounded in
                        his vanity, sated with Madame Elaguine’s Russian ways, remain faithful to
                        the absent woman? Would he not rather return and begin afresh that old, old
                        story of Platonic adoration, of self?reproach, with what his cousin called
                        Madonna of the Glaciers? And as Hamlin was leaving, he had said to her half
                        audibly, “If you will allow me, I will come to?morrow afternoon and see what can be done to my Vision of
                        Beatrice, if you will give me a sitting.”
                    A sitting! Anne’s heart had sunk at the mere word.
                    But the next morning she found on the tray on which her breakfast was brought
                        up a twisted note. It was from Hamlin, written late the previous night.
                    “DEAR MISS BROWN,” it said,—“I fear you will think me very uncourteous to
                        break through our engagement for to?morrow morning. But I am feeling rather
                        anxious lest Madame Elaguine should get imposed on about the school for her
                        boy; so I shall join her for a few days in Paris. Pray forgive my apparent
                        rudeness.—Yours sincerely, W. H.”
                    “What’s your news, Annie?” asked Mary Leigh, who had come in to see after her
                        invalid. “You look as if you had come in for a fortune!”
                    Anne made an effort and laughed.
                    “It was only Mr Hamlin postponing a sitting which I was to give him. I
                            really don’t feel much like sitting
                        yet. Mr Hamlin’s gone to Paris to look after a school for Boris
                        Elaguine.”
                    “And Madame Elaguine?”
                    “Madame Elaguine—went yesterday.”
                    “Oh, indeed!” answered Mary Leigh; and as she said that, a wave of red came
                        into Miss Brown’s pale face—why, Anne could not herself have explained.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    THE day after Hamlin’s departure to join Madame Elaguine, Richard
                        Brown paid another visit at Hammersmith; and he dropped in frequently in the
                        next few days. He never spoke of his hopes, he never inquired about Anne’s
                        plans; he scarcely so much as alluded to Hamlin’s departure. He seemed
                        satisfied to see his cousin, to explain to her all the things that he hoped
                        some day to do. This forbearance, this delicate discretion, on the part of
                        one of the most tactless and exacting of men; this something which implied
                        that Cousin Dick had learned to consult her wishes, touched Miss Brown very
                        much. Love, or by whatever other name (since the name of love was
                        discredited to Anne) she might choose to
                        call Richard’s strong and steady feeling, seemed to have purified this
                        powerful and generous temper of that alloy of coarse and contemptuous
                        suspicion that had occasionally repelled her so much.
                    Richard Brown had become comparatively quite charitable in his judgments,
                        sincerely anxious to be just. He tried to see things a little from her point
                        of view—nay, even to understand whatever good there was or had been in
                        Hamlin. This big and self?reliant man, who had already thought and done so
                        much for himself and for others, began to appear to his cousin as less
                        mature than she had fancied, and even less self?reliant; new instincts and
                        perceptions, new sides of his nature—making it fuller, richer,
                        purer—developing under her influence. Anne did not love her cousin; she did
                        not even anticipate loving him anything as she had once loved Hamlin. She
                        recognised that, in her nature, love could exist only for an ideal, and in
                        an ideal she could never again believe; but she became aware of a relation of frank comradeship, of mutual
                        respect and attachment and usefulness, which warmed her nature, and made
                        hopes and projects bud and blossom up. She was nervously anxious for that
                        fortnight to have come to an end, to have Hamlin back, to speak to him; and
                        yet, at the same time, it seemed to her dreadful that these few days of
                        freedom from care, freedom from the shadow which had so long hung over her,
                        should so soon come to an end.
                    The fortnight was drawing to a close; Hamlin would soon be back. Anne began
                        to be filled with unendurable impatience; she even, once or twice, began a
                        letter telling him everything, and tore it up only from the fear that it
                        might seem harsh, ungrateful, that it might (and the idea was terrible to
                        her) make him suppose that she was jealous, that she loved him. It was a
                        great relief to her when there suddenly came a telegram, sent on from
                        Hamlin’s lodgings, and opened by his servant, which announced for next
                        evening the arrival of Melton Perry, who
                        knew nothing of Hamlin’s momentary absence from town.
                    “Oh, Aunt Claudia,” cried Anne, “Mr Perry is coming to?morrow evening! Do you
                        think—oh, do you think you could have him to stay here till Mr Hamlin
                        return?”
                    “Who is Mr Perry?” asked Chough, who was dining with them, suddenly pricking
                        up his ears at Anne’s excited tone. Could he be the explanation
                        of Anne’s indifference to Hamlin? thought the poet of the Eternal
                        Feminine.
                    “Mr Perry,” answered Anne, “is the gentleman in whose house I was a servant
                        until I met Mr Hamlin—the father of the little girls whose maid I was. He
                        was very kind to me, and I am very fond of him.”
                    Cosmo Chough stared at her in amazement. He had quite forgotten, indeed he
                        had never properly realised, that this queenly woman, this more than Dante’s
                        Beatrice or Petrarch’s Laura, had actually been a nursemaid—a servant! She a
                        servant! he repeated to himself, looking
                        at Miss Brown as she sat opposite him; at this goddess, it seemed to him,
                        with the wonderful face as of one of Michelangelo’s Titanesses; the solemn,
                        mysterious, onyx?grey eyes; the something superhumanly grand in person and
                        movement. To have been a servant, and to remind people of it, was his next
                        thought; and this Cosmo Chough, conscious of his supposed father the duke,
                        and of his real father the apothecary at Limerick, was absolutely unable to
                        comprehend.
                    “Mr Perry, except Miss Curzon, was the only friend I ever had, until—until I
                        met Mr Hamlin,” went on Miss Brown. “You will give him the spare room, Aunt
                        Claudia, for my sake, won’t you? And you will let me arrange it for him, and
                        make it look a little untidy, and put match?boxes and pipe?lights about, so
                        that he may feel a little comfortable.”
                    Mrs Macgregor laughed.
                    “Put as many pipe?lights about as you please, my dear; but if he fill Watty’s
                        studio with pipe?smoke, you will be responsible, not I.”
                    
                    The next afternoon Anne Brown was just in the midst of what she called making
                        the spare room look untidy, taking out the superfluous æsthetic furniture
                        which would, she knew, fidget her former master to death, dragging in
                        leather arm?chairs instead of imitation Queen Anne things, and piling
                        newspapers and novels on the table, when a visitor was announced. She went
                        down into the drawing?room, and, to her surprise, found Edmund Lewis. An
                        inexpressible sense of disgust came over her, This man personified all that
                        she hated most of that past with which she was about to break for ever. The
                        little man with the auburn beard and sealing?wax lips was considerably less
                        free?and?easy and sultan?like than usual; his humiliation, whatever it was,
                        had evidently done him good. Indeed, Miss Brown was almost beginning to ask
                        herself whether she might not have been a little unjust towards him also, so
                        respectful and amiable had he made himself, when it began to dawn upon her
                        that there was an explanation for his
                        visit much more in keeping with the character she had hitherto attributed to
                        him.
                    “I hear that Walter Hamlin is in Paris with his cousin,” he had remarked,
                        after a few minutes’ conversation. He had tried to say it in an off?hand
                        manner; but Anne had felt his green eyes fixed curiously upon her.
                    “Yes; they have gone to settle about sending Boris to the Lycée.”
                    Lewis hereupon made some remarks about English and French schools, and upon
                        the education of Boris Elaguine; but slowly and dexterously he made the
                        conversation return to Sacha and Hamlin; he made the conspicuous matter no
                        longer the object of Madame Elaguine’s and Hamlin’s journey to Paris, but
                        the journey itself.
                    “I don’t think Madame Elaguine’s Russian relations—her aunt who lives in
                        Paris and Boris’s grandfather—will be particularly pleased at her going
                        about like that with a young man,” he said. “Russians are such corrupt
                        people, they see mischief in everything.”
                    
                    Anne understood. Edmund Lewis, who always hated her, had been unable to
                        resist the temptation, now that both Hamlin and Sacha were safe out of the
                        way, of seeing the proud Miss Brown wince beneath his compassion. He was
                        artistically playing upon the feelings of humiliation and anger with which
                        he imagined her to be filled.
                    “Madame Elaguine is Mr Hamlin’s cousin, you must remember,” answered Anne,
                        quietly bending over her embroidery.
                    “True; but the people who meet them in Paris won’t know that, or won’t
                        believe it. Besides, it’s not as if they had always lived together and been
                        as brother and sister, as some cousins have. I think Madame Elaguine is very
                        rash to run the risk of unnecessary gossip; and I must say I can’t
                        understand Hamlin being so dense as not to see that he was compromising his
                        cousin, especially as people were beginning to notice his assiduity to his
                        cousin even here. Of course, however,” added Lewis, fixing his eyes on Miss
                            Brown, “being engaged, to you makes a
                        difference to Hamlin. A man who is engaged to be married may, I suppose, go
                        about with any woman—it is as if he were married. I am very sorry I shall be
                        far away, somewhere in Central Asia or South America—I don’t know where—when
                        your marriage will come off, Miss Brown. I must make my congratulations
                        betimes.”
                    “There is nothing to congratulate about,” answered Anne, quietly; “there has
                        been no question of my marrying Mr Hamlin. I am sorry such an idea should
                        have got abroad. I was, you know, Mr Hamlin’s ward till lately, and I am now
                        taking advantage of his aunt’s kindness to stay here till—till I settle what
                        I am going to do; I may be going to Girton—I don’t know.”
                    “Oh, indeed!” exclaimed Lewis; “pray forgive my unintentional impertinence
                        then. Girton? Ah—How long do you intend remaining there?”
                    “I don’t know. Nothing is settled yet.”
                        Anne was determined not to let this man enjoy his impertinence and
                        spitefulness: he should go away baffled.
                    “I may stay there altogether. I should rather like to be a teacher.”
                    “And I,” said Lewis, with one of his would?be fascinating smiles, “would, in
                        that case, like to be a pupil, Miss Brown.”
                    Anne did not answer. He must be disappointed, she thought. But he was
                        determined to get some satisfaction out of her.
                    “I can’t get over Hamlin’s thoughtlessness in accompanying Madame Elaguine to
                        Paris,” he said. “It would have been so simple to ask some lady to be of the
                        party. I suppose you did not like leaving Mrs Macgregor? I was sorry to hear
                        that she was ailing.”
                    “There was no question of my going,” answered Anne; “and I do think it is
                        such silly nonsense about any one being required. If people choose to think
                        that Mr Hamlin is going to marry his cousin—well, why not? It would be a
                        very natural thing if he did.”
                    
                    She looked Lewis boldly in the face. It was the first time that she had said
                        the thing which she believed, hoped for, prayed for.
                    Edmund Lewis was evidently staggered; and Anne enjoyed watching his
                        discomfiture. But a thought soon came into his subtle head.
                    “I suppose you see a good deal of Mr Richard Brown?” he asked; “he’s an
                        extraordinarily clever man.”
                    “Yes; he is very able. I see him often enough. At present his electioneering
                        business doesn’t leave him much time.”
                    “Ah, to be sure. It costs a lot of money, doesn’t it, to get into Parliament?
                        But I suppose Mr Brown is rich now, is he not?”
                    “He is well off.”
                    “And he is sure to succeed. He has a fine career before him,” mused Lewis. He
                        had, as he thought, grasped the situation: there had been an amicable
                        exchange—Anne was to marry Richard Brown, and Sacha was to have Hamlin. All
                        his enemies—for Sacha and Hamlin had evidently sent him to the 
                            right? about
                            right-about
                        —were going to be happily settled. His paste?coloured face grew
                        pastier than ever; he bit his scarlet lips and auburn moustache; he looked
                        horribly angry and malignant; wickeder than even Anne, who had always hated
                        him, would have believed it possible.
                    But he kept his temper—nay, he was quite unusually deferential and sweet. He
                        led the conversation to other topics; and Anne thought that his only object
                        was now to talk no more about the affairs which he had so misjudged, when,
                        she scarcely knew how, he began to talk about Wotton Hall—first about the
                        scenery, then about the grounds, then the house, then their stay there, and
                        finally about the incident of the burning bed.
                    He went over all the circumstances of it; he summed up all that he and Anne
                        knew of Madame Elaguine’s persecution; and then, as if discussing a curious
                        psychological problem, he asked her whether it had ever occurred to her that
                        there was any possibility that the persecution should be a fraud, and that
                        the bed had been set fire to by Madame
                        Elaguine herself. “I don’t know whether you remarked at the time, that the
                        flames burst out just two minutes after Madame Elaguine had fetched the
                        cigarette?papers out of her room, and that she had given orders to her maid
                        not to come until she should be rung for,” said Lewis; “also, that Madame
                        Elaguine seemed extremely unwilling that any inquiry should be made into the
                        matter afterwards.”
                    Anne said nothing; the recollection of the precious lace?trimmed
                        dressing?gown, placed carefully out of the way of the flames, and of that
                        sentence, “And they never forgot, so long as they lived, that terrible
                        burning bed,” which had caught her eye in little Hélène Elaguine’s
                        story?book, came into her mind. She had put that matter of the persecution
                        behind her of late, and yet in her heart she felt that she believed it to be
                        a fraud.
                    “I have had my doubts about it,” bending over her work lest Lewis should see
                        her face. “Indeed,” she added boldly, indignant at her own want of frankness, “I am inclined to believe
                        that Madame Elaguine did set that bed on fire. Several things have made me
                        think so.”
                    Lewis smiled. “I am glad to find that you take my view of the case, Miss
                        Brown. The chemist at Appledore—where, if you remember, Madame Elaguine went
                        for some shopping the day before the fire—showed me himself the bottle of
                        acid from which he had helped Madame Elaguine—I forget the name of the
                        stuff—she said she wanted some to take spots out of a dress.”
                    “Indeed,” went on Lewis, “I think that we have in Madame Elaguine a very
                        curious instance of a sort of monomania which has, I believe, its scientific
                        name,”—and Lewis began to retail a variety of instances, culled out of some
                        volume of ‘Causes célèbres,’ of persons who had elaborately made up
                        persecutions of which themselves were victims. He had always been fond of
                        talking as if he knew a great deal about morbid conditions of the brain,
                        and, indeed, morbid things of all sorts; and he talked for some time as if he took a purely
                        abstract interest in the case.
                    “One is apt to meet very singular types among Russian women, especially such
                        as have led a wandering life like Madame Elaguine,” went on Lewis. “They are
                        devoured by a passion for the forbidden, or at least for the unreal and
                        theatrical; there is something strangely crooked in their moral vision,
                        something discordant in their nature. They are extraordinary, charming,
                        intelligent, depraved creatures. Only a Russian woman could be at once so
                        childish and so theatrical and insincere, so full of idealism and of
                        cynicism, as Madame Elaguine. Ah, she is a wonderful being! That matter of
                        the burning bed finishes her off perfectly.”
                    Edmund Lewis fixed his green magnetic eyes on Anne. He still believed that
                        she must hate Sacha, as it was clear that, for some reason or other, he
                        hated the Russian; and he wished, by giving Miss Brown these notions about
                        Madame Elaguine, to induce her to revenge
                        herself and him. But Anne had become quite dense to his intentions. She did
                        not connect these ideas with Lewis; his words seemed to her now the mere
                        expression of all the things which her own instinct had revealed, and which
                        she had put behind her in her desire that Sacha should relieve her of the
                        intolerable debt to Hamlin. The creature described by this odious man was
                        the real Sacha; she was Madame Elaguine as she now clearly appeared to Miss
                        Brown. And yet how unjust! Lewis had wanted to torment her by making her
                        jealous of Madame Elaguine; he now wished to pay off Madame Elaguine for
                        having, in some manner, slighted his own vanity.
                    “I think you take a dreadful view of the matter,” she said; “you explain
                        Madame Elaguine, who is only half a Russian, by all the horrible Russians
                        you have ever met or imagined. I think there is a much simpler explanation.
                        Madame Elaguine has been very strangely brought up; she has lived with very
                        bad people; her husband was a horrible
                        wretch, we all know. She is excessively hysterical—her mother, Mr Hamlin’s
                        aunt, was so also—and we all know that the desire to be prominent, to
                        deceive, is a common form of hysteria. And as she has never been brought up
                        to restrain herself, she imagines herself to be persecuted, and makes up the
                        persecution. She is much more to be pitied than to be blamed.”
                    Anne spoke rapidly. She seemed to be speaking fairly; and yet she knew she
                        was wilfully misrepresenting, that Madame Elaguine was something more than a
                        hysterical monomaniac: she remembered Mrs Macgregor’s stories of Sacha’s
                        degraded childhood, all the accusations of her precocious lying and
                        unchasteness, of her having led one of her cousins into mischief, and set
                        the house by the ears. She was indignant with herself for defending this
                        woman—out of charity? out of conviction? No. But merely because she required
                        that this woman be sufficiently innocent to become Hamlin’s wife.
                    
                    Edmund Lewis stroked his auburn beard meditatively.
                    “I don’t believe in praise and blame,” he answered; “I believe merely in
                        fate. Some people are born noble, truthful, chaste—others just the reverse.
                        It is the fault of neither; and each, in its way, is equally interesting and
                        valuable to the artist or the psychologist. The curious thing about Madame
                        Elaguine is, that she apparently stands half?way; she is, according to the
                        ideas of the world, half responsible and half irresponsible. We see in her a
                        hysterical woman, troubled by a morbid love of deceit; and at the same time
                        a woman to whom such deceit is or has been practically necessary. Madame
                        Elaguine continues for her amusement, and develops to the utmost, an
                        imaginary persecution, whose origin must be sought in some intrigue which it
                        was her interest to veil by a mystification,” Lewis drawled on in his
                        omniscient, half?pedantic way, as if the intrigues of married women were the
                        most usual subject of conversation between
                        a man and a young lady, and as if to suggest that Madame Elaguine had led a
                        loose life were the most obvious and inoffensive of proceedings.
                    Miss Brown blushed crimson; but she felt something more than insulted,
                        something more than indignant. What right had this man to focus all her own
                        suspicions concerning a woman whom she fervently wished not to suspect?
                    “Mr Lewis,” she said, “I don’t think those things should be listened to by me
                        or said by you. I believe that Madame Elaguine is not sound in her mind, and
                        that her persecution is a hoax; but I believe that she is an honest woman in
                        other respects. She is a friend of mine, and I will not hear her
                        slandered.”
                    “Heaven forbid that I should wish to slander her! I think she is a
                        fascinating woman; and she is—at least she was—quite as great a friend of
                        mine as of yours. I was only telling you how I explain her character.”
                    Lewis had always appeared a reptile in
                        Anne’s eyes; but never so much as just now.
                    “I hate scandal,” he said, taking his hat, “and I am most grieved to have
                        appeared to be talking scandal. People always misunderstand the sort of
                        passionate interest I take in every kind of curious character. I suppose you
                        would call it morbid, Miss Brown; but I really was considering Madame
                        Elaguine merely as an interesting study.”
                    All this kind of talk, of which Hamlin was so fond, perfectly sickened Anne;
                        and the sudden stirring up of all her old suspicions was exasperating.
                    “That is all very fine,” she said angrily; “but do you, or do you not,
                        believe Madame Elaguine to be a dishonourable woman, apart from this
                        monomania?”
                    “It is very hard to say. You know I disbelieve in what you call moral
                        responsibilities. I imagine Madame Elaguine to have found her mania for
                        persecution very convenient at one period of her life—yes, 
                            cer? tainly
                            certainly
                        . I think it is the only rational way to account for the beginning
                        of it—don’t you?”
                    Miss Brown took no notice of Lewis’s insolent inquisitiveness of manner.
                    “If you think that, Mr Lewis,” she said, “may I ask how you reconciled with
                        your notions of gentlemanly behaviour the calm way in which you let Mr
                        Hamlin introduce such a woman as you describe to me, and let me continue to
                        know her? No; you are perfectly aware that all this is merely trumped up at
                        the moment.” And she put her hand on the bell?handle, for the door to be
                        opened to Lewis.
                    Edmund Lewis smiled.
                    “Walter Hamlin’s eyes are quite as good as mine. As regards my behaviour
                        towards you, I cannot go into details, but you may understand, dear Miss
                        Brown, that two or three months ago I may not, as a man of honour, have been
                        at liberty to discuss Madame Elaguine’s character in the way that I have done now that Madame Elaguine’s
                        relations with me have entirely changed their nature. Good?bye, dear Miss
                        Brown. I am most truly grieved if I have offended you in any way.”
                    Anne merely made an impatient gesture, a gesture almost of disgust, as Edmund
                        Lewis left the room.
                    So this was the explanation of Edmund Lewis’s apparent disgrace! Sacha
                        Elaguine had repelled his odious advances, she had closed her door to him,
                        she had complained to Hamlin; and now, as soon as their backs were turned,
                        Lewis had come to slander them without fear of a horsewhipping. Anne seemed
                        to breathe once more—thank heaven that the wretch had overreached himself in
                        his malice!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    THE door had scarcely closed upon Edmund Lewis, when it opened again
                        suddenly.
                    “Mr Perry!” cried Anne, rising and running forward as a child might run to
                        meet a former kind and encouraging teacher; “Mr Perry! oh I am so glad to
                        see you!”
                    It really seemed to her that this dear, good, open familiar face, with the
                        untidy yellow hair and beard,—that this well?known, boyish, slouching figure
                        drove away like some cabalistic sign the loathsome creature who had been
                        there a few minutes before,—that Melton Perry dispelled all the horrid
                        vision left behind by Edmund Lewis.
                    “Didn’t expect me yet, eh, Annie—I mean Miss Brown?” said Melton Perry, as
                            she seized his hand in both hers. “I
                        suppose you expected me by the Dover train. But I came by Dieppe, six hours’
                        agony, but a saving of twelve?and?sixpence. I was always an economical
                        creature, wasn’t I? Why, what’s that you have round your neck? That beastly
                        little pewter and horn rosary that I got you at the Fair of the Impruneta,
                        by George! Fancy your having kept such a thing!”
                    “It’s one of the best things I have,” said Anne, the tears coming into her
                        eyes as this well?known voice brought back the far?distant past—“it’s the
                        present of a friend.”
                    “And all this, isn’t this also the present of a friend?” said Perry, throwing
                        himself into an arm?chair, and looking round the room with much the same
                        wonder with which Anne had looked at its strange furniture, its brocades and
                        embroideries, and Japanese vases and lustre plates, when she first came;
                        “but I forgot, Walter Hamlin isn’t a particular friend of yours.”
                    To this jest Miss Brown made no answer: if
                        only Melton Perry could guess at the literal truth of his words!
                    “Lord, what a damned gorgeous place this is!” cried Perry, still looking
                        round; and then, suddenly turning towards Anne, where she sat, in a
                        wonderful trailing dress of deep crimson stamped velvet, a big bunch of
                        blackish crimson roses marking off, throwing into relief, the strange opaque
                        ivory of her face, “what a beautiful woman you are, Annie! Do you know, I
                        usen’t to believe it, when Watty raved about you at the Villa Arnolfini.
                        What a crusty old jackass I must have been! But tell, why in the wide world
                        aren’t you married yet? What have you been doing all this time?”
                    “Mr Hamlin has not asked me to marry him yet,” answered Anne,
                        laconically.
                    Melton Perry thrust his hands upon the arms of his chair, and his whole body
                        forward. “Not asked you to marry him yet!” he repeated; “do you mean to say
                        you aren’t engaged to him . . .?”
                    Anne shook her head.
                    
                    “That he’s been going loafing, and spooning, and doing Vita
                            Nuova all this time? I thought that he must have lost two dozen
                        grandfathers and grandmothers in rapid succession, so that one mourning
                        postponed your marriage after the other, or something similar.” Then a
                        thought suddenly struck him. “Hamlin’s not ill?” he cried. “Consumption,
                        madness, doctors’ consultations,—anything of that sort?”
                    Miss Brown could not help smiling.
                    “Oh no, Mr Hamlin has been quite well. He is in Paris at present; he didn’t
                        expect you quite so soon, but he will be back in a day or two.”
                    Melton Perry rose and looked Anne very earnestly in the face—
                    “Miss Brown—no, I can’t call you Miss Brown—Annie, tell me the truth. Has
                        Hamlin not kept his word—has he played you any dirty trick? No, no, I don’t
                        mean anything,—but, has Hamlin played fast and loose with you?”
                    
                    “Mr Hamlin never intended asking me to marry him at once,” answered Anne,
                        evasively. She felt in Melton Perry’s suspicions that again, as with her
                        cousin, Hamlin would be attacked, maligned, that she would have to defend
                        him. “Don’t you remember, Mr Perry? We were to wait, to see whether we
                        really . . . I will tell you all about it later—to?morrow. It is a long
                        story; I want to hear about you now, about Italy—about your work, the
                        children, Mrs Perry.”
                    “Mr Hamlin,” she added, fearing lest her evasive answers, her haste to get
                        rid of the subject, should prejudice Perry against his friend, “has been
                        most generous and noble towards me; indeed much more than I can ever
                        say.”
                    “I’m damned if I understand any of it,” said Perry to himself, as he
                        proceeded to answer Anne’s rapid strings of questions about his wife, his
                        little girls, his pictures, his etchings,—those etchings, never thought of
                        before, which had revealed in this sixth?rate painter a great artist, and had brought him, in good case
                        to make money, to England. Miss Brown insisted upon showing him up to his
                        room herself. As she was leaving him, he looked at her long and
                        seriously.
                    “Annie,” he said, “if it’s not rude to ask, for I’ve forgotten—how old are
                        you?”
                    “I was twenty?four last month. Why do you ask? Do you think I look more?”—she
                        added, with a smile whose bitterness he did not catch. She could scarcely
                        realise it herself; she seemed to have lived so long, such years and years
                        since she had seen him last—nay, since she had first entered this room.
                    “Twenty?four,” repeated Perry, stupidly. “Well now, don’t be offended—of
                        course you couldn’t be more, for you weren’t of age when you left us; but
                        somehow—it isn’t that you don’t look young, you know, but all the same I
                        should have thought . . . I’m a rude brute.”
                    “That I was much older,” laughed Miss Brown. “Well, I often think so
                        myself.”
                    
                    “It’s something, I don’t know what. You are far handsomer than in Italy, and
                        you never did look much like a girl—you know what I mean; but now, upon my
                        word, I don’t know how to say it, I never saw an unmarried woman look like
                        you. You look as if you had seen and understood such a heap of things. I
                        feel quite a fool before you. Forgive me,” he said, “I’m always a blundering
                        tomfool. I had somehow thought of you as something like my own girls.
                        Winnie’s sixteen, you know, and such a strapping girl. But I feel as if you
                        might be my grandmother.”
                    Anne laughed. “I have always felt as if I were your grandmother. I was born
                        old. Good?bye, Mr Perry. Remember that dinner is at seven; and put on a
                        dress?coat if you want to win the heart of my aunt—I mean Mr Hamlin’s
                        aunt.”
                    Melton Perry whistled as he stooped to unbuckle his portmanteau.
                    “I’m damned if I understand anything of it all, and Annie least of any of
                        them,” he mused.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    “AFTER all,” said Melton Perry to himself next morning, as he sat
                        under the big apple?trees in the garden, smoking his pipe and looking at
                        Miss Brown stitching at a piece of embroidery and overwhelming him with
                        questions about Winnie, Mildred, Leila, the baby, Mrs Perry—nay, even about
                        all her former fellow?servants in Italy, and the grocer round the corner,
                        and the milkman, and the man who came from the country every Monday to fetch
                        the linen,—“after all, it was a very bright idea of old Watty’s to fall in
                        love with our nursemaid and turn her into a wonderful æsthetic being in a
                        wonderful æsthetic house: it was very sensible of Mrs Perry to encourage him
                        in the idea; and it was just like a
                        confounded, fumbling, purblind old pig and ass like me to try and prevent
                        it.”
                    After lunch Anne took Melton Perry up into the drawing?room, cool, and almost
                        Italian, with drawn blinds and a faint smell of flowers in the dusk, on one
                        of the most stifling London afternoons. Perry mechanically took out a
                        cigarette; but he hastily put it in again. It seemed to him profanation to
                        smoke in such a wonderful room, in the presence of such a wonderful
                        woman.
                    “Please smoke; you used always to smoke after lunch with Mrs Perry,” said
                        Anne.
                    “But—this isn’t Florence; and you—you aren’t Mrs Perry.”
                    Anne made an impatient gesture that he should take out his cigarettes again.
                        She had determined that she must speak to him before Hamlin came; that she
                        must try and get him to understand, to explain things to Hamlin. But how get
                        this good?natured, kindly, childish, yet in a way chivalrous, harum?scarum
                        creature to understand her story? She had
                        a great dread of the impossibility of making him understand that Hamlin had
                        never acted meanly towards her—that their estrangement was due to nothing
                        voluntary on Hamlin’s part, to nothing but the disappointing of her own
                        perhaps unwarranted ideals; of making him understand that Hamlin’s
                        connection with Madame Elaguine, instead of being a grievance in her eyes,
                        was the greatest happiness she could conceive. Perry was sure to burst out
                        against Hamlin, to refuse to listen to her explanations, to insist upon
                        fighting the battle of an injured woman.
                    Anne groaned at the thought, as she might have groaned at some immense stone
                        to roll uphill. It was always so difficult for her to understand others, so
                        intolerably more difficult to make herself understood. But she had
                        resolved.
                    “I must tell you all my history since last we saw each other,” she said; “you
                        will want to hear it, won’t you, Mr Perry?”
                    Perry, to whose brain all the unwonted
                        splendour of this house, all the fantasticalness of finding his former
                        nursemaid changed into a magnificently dressed goddess, had gone with a sort
                        of narcotic effect, answered in a stupefied way, “Oh dear, yes—of course—I’m
                        dying to hear it. I can’t at all realise that it is really you, Annie, or
                        really anybody and anything. Do you remember when we went into Lucca that
                        day for the feast of the Holy Face, and I left you with Winnie and Mildred
                        to go to the opera with Hamlin? D’you remember the plaster bust of
                        Castruccio at the top of the hotel stairs, with the old woman’s night?cap
                        on? I don’t know why that bust haunted me so. What tiny trots Winnie and
                        Mildred were, with sashes down at their knees! and such confounded young
                        flirts, five feet seven, as they are now! I see you have Winnie’s
                        photograph. How comic those brats must have looked! . . . But won’t you tell
                        me all your marvellous and incredible circumstances?”
                    “I scarcely know where to begin; perhaps I
                        had better begin at the end. You wanted to know,” said Anne, making a great
                        effort to arrest Perry’s attention, “why Mr Hamlin and I weren’t married
                        yet, nor even engaged . . .”
                    “Oh yes; what the deuce is the meaning of it, Annie? You are certainly the
                        queerest people, you æsthetic folk. By Jove! you actually have a photograph
                        of yourself with the children. I had clean forgotten its existence; and now
                        I remember as if it were yesterday taking you to Alinari’s, and how beastly
                        naughty Winnie was! Oh, what a sulky blackamoor you do look, Annie! Good
                        gracious! you don’t mean to say you know her?” and Melton Perry
                        suddenly turned the album, at which he was looking, towards Anne. “Where in
                        the world did you pick up a photograph of Mrs Constantine Bulzo?”
                    “Mrs Constantine Bulzo ?” asked Anne, in amazement. “Whom do you mean? I
                        never heard of such a person. That photograph?—why, that’s a half?Russian
                        cousin of Mr 
                            Ham? lin’s
                            Hamlin's
                        , Sacha Elaguine, who was a Miss Polozoff.”
                    “Hamlin’s cousin!” whistled Melton Perry,—“well, upon my word . . . yes, of
                        course, I had forgotten—of course, her name isn’t Mrs Constantine Bulzo any
                        longer. But may I ask, how under heaven do you come to know Madame
                        Elaguine?”
                    “I don’t understand a word. This lady is Madame Elaguine; she is Mr Hamlin’s
                        first cousin, and that’s of course how I come to know her.”
                    “Hamlin’s cousin or not Hamlin’s cousin, how in the wide world could a woman
                        like you ever know, ever meet such a—such a—excuse the word, but it’s the
                        least bad I can find—such an abominable baggage as this woman, Elaguine, or
                        Bulzo, or Polozoff—as this abominable Sacha?”
                    Miss Brown turned white and almost green; the embroidery slipped out of her
                        hands—she gasped.
                    “Good Lord, what’s the matter with you,
                        Annie?” cried Perry, jumping up; “you surely didn’t imagine that—you surely
                        can’t be a great friend of such a creature as that. What’s the matter?—are
                        you ill?”
                    “It’s nothing—the heat, I suppose,” said Anne, stooping to pick up her
                        embroidery; “and then, also, I suppose I’m not very strong yet; I’ve had
                        brain fever, and you took me by surprise. But I oughtn’t to have been
                        surprised, because I know Sacha Elaguine has a great many enemies, and that
                        her circumstances, her history, and in some measure, unfortunately, her ways
                        and character, rather lend themselves to all manner of horrible stories.
                        She’s a frightfully tried and slandered little woman, poor thing. But I
                        don’t—I don’t believe any of it.”
                    Anne was conscious of a horrible effort as she spoke these words; lying was
                        difficult to her; and she remembered Edmund Lewis’s words.
                    “Are you really fond of Madame Bulzo—I mean Madame Elaguine?” asked Perry,
                            grown very serious suddenly, and
                        looking Anne in the face with an expression of surprise and pain. “Are you
                        intimate with her?”
                    “I am intimate in the sense of having been with her a good deal, and knowing
                        more than other people about her,” answered Anne; “but I can’t say I am a
                        great friend of hers. She is Mr Hamlin’s cousin; she has settled in England
                        recently; he—we, I mean—see a good deal of her. I am awfully sorry for her,
                        poor little woman; but there isn’t very much in common between us.”
                    “Thank goodness!” cried Perry. “Do you know, the sight of that photograph
                        made me feel quite sick—the thought that you, Annie, should be the friend of
                        such a creature. But I knew you couldn’t be.”
                    “But I am Madame Elaguine’s friend; I don’t believe a word of the infamous
                        stories that are told about her; and you wouldn’t believe them either, if
                        you knew all that I do.”
                    “What do you know ?” asked Perry, slowly and pityingly; “about the iniquities of Monsieur
                        Elaguine, about the terrible persecution, the bits of letters, the
                        pistol?shots, the poisoned chocolate, the lit spirits of wine poured under
                        the door,—all that crazy imposture, I suppose? Well, I hope that Hamlin
                        knows no more than you; otherwise, by God! he’s no better than a blackguard
                        to let you associate with this woman, be she his cousin a hundred times
                        over; and you must never see that woman again, Annie. I forbid you to—I, as
                        the oldest friend you have in the world—I forbid you to defile yourself by
                        knowing that infamous creature.” And Perry walked fiercely up and down,
                        while Miss Brown, her whole body, it seemed to her, melting away from her
                        soul, sat speechless looking at him.
                    “Listen to me, Anne,” he said, “and judge whether I am unfair. God knows I’m
                        not a Puritan, neither towards myself nor towards others. I’ve been a very
                        rowdy man; I’ve knowu a great many rowdy women—what you call regular bad
                        women—Russians, who are the worst of
                        all—by the dozen. I’m not a red?tapist; I can quite understand women
                        misbehaving,—having lovers—that sort of thing,—or even, if they are very
                        wretched, selling themselves. It’s beastly immoral to say so before a woman,
                        but still, there it is, it’s the truth. Well, such as you see me, I wouldn’t
                        touch that woman with the longest pair of tongs in all the
                        devil’s kitchen. That woman is really wicked—not merely immoral, but
                        abominable, atrocious; she is the sort of woman who absolutely degrades a
                        man, takes a pleasure in turning him into a beast and a madman—whose
                        greatest pleasure would be to degrade and make a beast of an honest woman.
                        Just listen to me. Some five years ago I knew a Greek couple—a young man and
                        his sister, called Constantine and Marie Bulzo. They were orphans, very
                        young, very handsome, especially the boy, who was only eighteen or nineteen.
                        They were a sort of half?English Greeks, and went in for being æsthetical
                        and artistic, all that sort of thing. I knew them in Florence, where Miss
                            Bulzo, who was four or five years
                        older than her brother, was studying painting. I gave them both lessons. I
                        never met two such beautiful creatures, body and soul, as those young
                        Bulzos. They were like young saints, and yet perfectly childish and merry,
                        and they were quite devoted to each other: Marie really lived only for the
                        boy. Well, six months later I met the two at Venice. They were staying at
                        the same hotel as your Madame Elaguine, who immediately proceeded to make
                        herself awfully fascinating and pathetic to them. Of course the poor
                        children swallowed all about the persecutions by the Nihilists as so much
                        Gospel. They introduced me, and Madame Elaguine rather amused me; but I saw
                        very soon that she wasn’t a woman for them to know. There was a man staying
                        in the same hotel, an old friend of hers, and, in fact, her lover, who was
                        one of the vilest scoundrels the world ever bred—a horrible loathsome old
                        Russian. I used to wonder how Madame Elaguine could endure him, but then I
                        found out that he paid her bills for her.
                        I tried to warn the Bulzos, especially Constantine, as, being a man, he
                        might be expected to understand such things rather better. But, figurati! (and Perry made an expressive gesture
                        of Italian exaggeration,) they wouldn’t hear a word against their beloved,
                        deeply injured, martyrised Madame Elaguine. Well, we half quarrelled; I
                        scarcely saw anything of them. At the end of four months what do I hear, but
                        that Miss Bulzo was married to Madame Elaguine’s loathsome Russian; and
                        then, a week later, I see Constantine and Madame Elaguine go off in the
                        train together. Do you understand? Madame Elaguine, who was in love with
                        young Bulzo, wanted to go off with him, and not knowing what to do with
                        Marie, and wishing to dismiss and settle accounts with her quondam lover, had, in some fiendish way,
                        induced this innocent girl of twenty?four to marry this frightful old
                        Russian sinner—had sold her to the loathsome beast as a settlement to their
                        debts; and Marie, after a few months, simply pined away and died of shame and disgust at the slavery
                        she had been sold into. Do you understand that?”
                    “I understand; but I don’t see why I should believe—it’s too horrible to be
                        true.”
                    “It is true, though, for Constantine Bulzo told it me all himself later; how
                        the Elaguine had talked him over to consent, and had regularly bullied his
                        sister into the marriage, by pretending that it was the only way of paying a
                        lot of imaginary debts of her brother’s, and had forced Constantine, who was
                        raving in love with her, to hold his tongue. That was the end of Marie
                        Bulzo. Now as to Constantine. His sister once safely married to her old
                        beast, he went off with the Elaguine, or rather, the Elaguine went off with
                        him. Next summer I met them at Perugia; they were travelling about in remote
                        places as Mr and Mrs Bulzo; and English people were so kind as to believe
                        that this Russian woman of thirty and this Greek boy of twenty were married.
                        Constantine perfectly adored her; but I never saw a man more changed: he looked thirty, a
                        miserable, hang?dog, effeminate sort of creature, quite unable to do
                        anything except drag after his so?called wife. That woman had regularly
                        ruined the poor boy, broken his spirit, turned him into a kind of male
                        odalisque of hers. Two years later the Bulzos were at Venice again; and I
                        came just in time for the catastrophe. One fine morning Mrs Constantine
                        Bulzo, become Madame Elaguine once more, packed her trunks and went off with
                        a French painter, leaving her supposed husband to pay the hotel bill.”
                    “I saw Constantine shortly after; the woman had spent nearly all his money,
                        and he was living, or starving, in a room in a beastly court, slinking out
                        only early in the morning and late at night, spending the day lying in his
                        bed, eating opium and drinking. I never saw such a wreck in my life. As he
                        was starving, I got him a place as clerk at a picture?shop, and tried to get
                        him to work; but he didn’t seem to care about living, and went on drinking
                            and stupefying himself, till one day
                        he drowned himself in the lagoon—they say accidentally, but I shall never
                        believe it. That is the story of your Madame Elaguine; and I swear to you I
                        have not exaggerated one word of it. Do you still think she is a woman fit
                        to be known by you? By heaven! when I think what that miserable boy was when
                        I saw him last, and what he had been when first I knew him, I feel as if it
                        would be the greatest possible pleasure to throttle your Madame Elaguine
                        with my own hands! Upon my soul, I do!”
                    Perry was walking up and down rapidly. Anne had never seen him so excited in
                        his life.
                    “But,” remarked Miss Brown, coldly, “even admitting your story to be true,
                        which I suppose, as it comes from you, that I must, was it all the woman’s
                        fault? You men always throw the blame on the woman. But your Constantine
                        Bulzo must have been a wretched weak creature.”
                    Perry stopped short.
                    
                    “No one has a right to expect every man or every woman to be very strong,” he
                        answered, sadly. “This poor boy was kind and trusting, and, when left to his
                        own devices, honest. He was not weaker than most men, especially than most
                        artistic natures—not weaker, for instance, than Walter Hamlin.”
                    Anne Brown did not answer. But next morning she greatly surprised Melton
                        Perry by asking him, in a voice that affected him as being very strange—
                    “Did you tell me something—a dreadful story—about Madame Elaguine and a young
                        Greek friend of yours, yesterday afternoon?”
                    Perry looked at her with surprise. There was something in her wide?opened,
                        strained eyes, in her rigidity of features, that made him think of a
                        sleep?walker.
                    “Of course I did. Why?”
                    “Oh, nothing. I had only a very bad night—all manner of horrible dreams, and
                        I was not sure whether this might not be one of them.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    “DO you know, Annie,” said Melton Perry, two or three days later, “I
                        find Watty very much altered. He seems so fearfully depressed and
                        broken?spirited. He used always to be bored, but not like this; he has got
                        to look so old, with those great rings under his eyes.”
                    Miss Brown did not answer. Hamlin had returned the previous evening from
                        Paris, and she also had noticed that he was changed—not so much, indeed, as
                        Melton Perry seemed to think, for Melton Perry had not seen him for four or
                        five years; and she—she had watched a change coming over him during the last
                        months. Yet even she must own to herself that this change had made rapid
                        progress during his fortnight or three weeks in Paris, or at least that this
                            absence enabled her to notice the
                        change much more. He was even more than usually apathetic and silent, and
                        his pleasure at seeing his old friend once more was so slight, or rather so
                        tempered by a kind of indifference and even annoyance, that Miss Brown felt
                        perfectly nervous lest poor warm?hearted Melton Perry should feel mortally
                        wounded. The next day Hamlin made an effort over himself: he seemed anxious
                        to be as kind as possible to Perry; but somehow it did not succeed. Melton
                        Perry would have liked, as he said, to have Walter all to himself, to sit
                        with him by the hour together, or walk out alone with him, talking of old
                        times; but Hamlin seemed possessed by a nervous dread of a tête?à?tête. He could not sit in the studio
                        with Perry for more than half an hour without, on some excuse or other,
                        calling his aunt or Miss Brown. He seemed to have invited a lot of people to
                        drop in at all hours, as if to protect him from his old friend.
                    “It’s awfully good of old Hamlin to wish me to know all these grand swell
                        painters and newspaper writers,” said
                        Perry to Anne, in the tone of a disappointed child; “and I suppose it
                            is very useful to me. But still, I wish I could get him to
                        understand that what I want at present is to see just him and you; that all
                        these confounded influential people will keep; and that I’d rather have a
                        good talk over a pipe with him alone, as in old days.”
                    Anne did not answer. It seemed to her that she understood so well why Hamlin
                        dreaded a tête?à?tête with Melton Perry; a
                            tête?à?t;ête which would be, largely,
                        a talk about the past and the future, about her, Anne Brown. But Anne could
                        not think about poor Perry and his disappointed friendliness; her whole
                        nature seemed to be staggering and reeling, and the concerns of other folk
                        were as distant, as unattainable, as they might be to a person tossed for
                        hours on a stormy sea, paralysed, removed as it were from the world by an
                        unspeakable sense of nausea. The days seemed to reel past, and yet not a
                        week was gone since the arrival of Melton Perry.
                    One afternoon, they were seated—Hamlin,
                        Perry, and she—with Mrs Macgregor at tea in the dim, shuttered drawing?room,
                        with the heavy scent of flowers, when Richard Brown was announced. If a
                        ghost had appeared on the threshold, Anne could not have turned paler, and
                        trembled harder in all her limbs—this man, whom she had seen but a week ago,
                        seemed indeed a spectre out of the past, the long dead past, with which all
                        connection was severed. It was an immense relief to her not to be alone; she
                        had an instinct that Richard had come to ask her whether, at last, she had
                        settled matters with Hamlin; she thought she could see his eyes going from
                        Hamlin’s face to her own inquiringly. The conversation was languid and
                        indifferent. Richard Brown wished for an explanation from her; Melton Perry
                        hoped for an explanation from Richard Brown; Hamlin looked on passively,
                        with that half?stupefied look which she had noticed in him lately.
                    Hamlin was more than merely depressed, he was very sad; his face, so handsome
                        and still so young, so perfectly unmarked in feature, contrasted strikingly with the pleased,
                        happy?go?lucky, kindly face of Perry; with the strong, eager, contemptuous
                        face of Brown. For a moment Anne wondered what this sadness meant; whether
                        there was in him any recollection of what he was, of what he might be;
                        whether the poet, the dreamer, the chivalrous Hamlin of former days, still
                        existed and suffered within this weak and degraded Hamlin of the present;
                        and then, suddenly, this thought came in violent contact with the
                        remembrance of Perry’s story of Constantine Bulzo. Had Constantine Bulzo
                        looked like that?
                    Richard Brown, obviously disappointed in his visit, rose.
                    “Why are you going so soon, Brown ?” asked Hamlin, rising and making an
                        effort over himself; “you never give me a chance of seeing you. Won’t you
                        stay to dinner? It is very impertinent of me to invite people in a house
                        that isn’t mine; but I feel sure Miss Brown is disappointed in not having
                        had any talk with you. Chough is coming to see Perry this evening, so you and your cousin might have a
                        chat after dinner.”
                    He spoke simply, in his quiet, subdued, melancholy voice. Richard Brown
                        looked at him rapidly from head to foot; what was the meaning of this? And
                        Anne felt herself growing very red. Had Hamlin guessed what she scarcely
                        herself knew?
                    “Thank you,” answered Richard; “I am dining with some of my would?be
                        constituents to?night. You know,” he said to Anne, “I am going into
                        Parliament, I believe. I will return soon; many thanks, Mr Hamlin.”
                    “I have a good many things to tell you, Nan,” he said, as Miss Brown
                        accompanied him to the room?door. “I have heard of a scholarship which I am
                        sure you could take if you would cram for six months; and I want to ask you
                        a lot of things also. I will come back in two or three days. Good?bye.”
                    He squeezed her hand; and Anne felt her heart thump at that hand?squeeze, so
                        frank and affectionate.
                    
                    “Good?bye, Cousin Dick,” she said. Her voice and eyes and hand lingered in
                        that farewell, in a way quite unusual to her reserved and decided nature.
                        She was saying goodbye she knew not exactly to what, but she felt that the
                        farewell was the last, and that it meant farewell to her happiness.
                    Chough came to dinner and stayed during the evening.
                    When he and Hamlin had taken their departure, Perry remained for a few
                        moments standing by the open window, looking vacantly at the trees, the
                        outlines of the craft moored opposite, the long trails of moonlight on the
                        water. Then he came back into the room, and began fiddling with some roses
                        in a glass.
                    “Beautiful roses,” he said, in an awkward drawl; “we have none like them in
                        Italy. Why don’t Italians cultivate flowers? What do you call this? Is it a
                        La France? I never knew a turnip from a jasmine.”
                    “I think it is a La France; I don’t know,” answered Anne, taking a
                        candlestick off the dining?room
                        mantelpiece. “I think I must leave you now. You will find a box of
                        cigarettes on the sideboard. Forgive me, I feel so tired and stupid.”
                    “One moment!” cried Perry. “It’s a very disagreeable thing I have to say,
                        Annie; but I think I ought to say it. I guessed it the second time I saw him
                        already; but now I am quite sure of it—Hamlin drinks.”
                    Anne did not answer.
                    “I don’t mean to say that he gets drunk. But he drinks—spirits; I’ve seen him
                        to?night after dinner, and I’m sure he’s going to take more at home. There’s
                        no mistaking the look. It isn’t that he takes much, not more than I or most
                        men might take; but it is that he oughtn’t to take any. He used, you know,
                        never even to take wine, except with gallons of water. He can’t take
                        anything of the sort. I remember already when we were at college together,
                        Watty was a teetotaller. It appears some people are like that; I’ve heard
                        doctors say that it’s not unusual in families where there has been much drinking: it’s a sort of
                        diseased sensitiveness to alcohol—it becomes a kind of poison. You know that
                        Hamlin’s father drank, and one of his uncles died of drink, and his brother
                        is either dead or dying, somewhere in a maison de
                            santé, of a sort of mixed delirium
                            tremens and craziness. It’s a thing,” went on Perry, keeping
                        his eyes fixed on the pattern of the Persian rug under his feet, “which
                        grieves and alarms me horribly; and in which I feel that you are probably
                        the only person who could have any influence with him. It’s useless my
                        speaking. He must have got in among a bad lot. That little Chough seems
                        harmless enough;but I hear that he was very close with a nasty fellow called
                        Lewis—a spiritualist, opium?eater, haschisch?eater, and heaven knows what.
                        Does he see much of him now?”
                    “He has quarrelled with Edmund Lewis, I fancy.”
                    “Ah—so much the better. Then this would evidently be the moment to act. Of
                            course I know it will be awfully
                        difficult and horrible for you; because he’ll feel so miserably ashamed
                        before you, and, of course, you will feel it almost as badly as he. But
                        still, you are the only person that can influence him. You see he loves you,
                        worships you, all that sort of thing. And I am sure you will have the
                        courage to get over your repugnance to a disagreeable half?hour, won’t you,
                        Annie, for your own sake as well as his?”
                    “I will do my best,” said Miss Brown.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    MISS BROWN went up to her room slowly, and slowly proceeded to
                        undress.
                    “You look very tired, miss,” said her maid; “haven’t you perhaps been
                        overtiring yourself so soon after your illness? and don’t you think you had
                        better let me brush your hair for you?”
                    Anne shook her head; she had never consented to let any one wait upon her
                        except when ill, with that odd feeling that she, a servant, had no right to
                        have a servant; and the maid whom Hamlin considered as a sort of necessary
                        institution for a woman in Miss Brown’s position, had been virtually put at
                        the disposal of Mrs Macgregor, whose constant fidgeting over her clothes,
                        and tea, and coffee, and food, according
                        to hygienic theories of thirty years back, might have afforded occupation
                        not to two but to twenty maids. Anne really did look very worn out; more so
                        than she had seemed these several weeks, thought the maid.
                    “No, thank you, Laura,” said Miss Brown. She really did not feel at all as if
                        she could sleep; she felt the blood rushing through every artery of her
                        body, and a hot faintness overtake her.
                    “It won’t do to make myself ill again,” she said to herself. The doctor had
                        said that for the present she must try and get as much sleep as possible;
                        and she was a practical, methodical person. She brushed her hair, still in
                        short wavy masses since it was cut during the fever, carefully, slowly. It
                        seemed to her as if, in the half light, it looked more grey than black. She
                        pulled out a few white hairs: they come early in hair as dark and wiry as
                        hers. She folded her clothes methodically, as she used to fold the clothes
                            of the little Perrys, put out her
                        light and lay down.
                    “It won’t do to make myself ill again,” she said; and, closing her eyes,
                        determined to sleep.
                    She remained stretched out rigidly, like a dead woman, her head straight on
                        her pillows, and trying to keep her mind as rigid as her body. But it was of
                        no use. She could not sleep; her blood and her thoughts seemed to throb
                        furiously within her.
                    Anne’s mind had been made up, quietly, methodically, much in the same way as
                        her hair had been brushed and her clothes folded, already a good hour ago,
                        when talking to Melton Perry; she had seen the necessity of a decision
                        coming, had waited for the moment when the decision should be made, ever
                        since she had heard that story of Madame Elaguine and Constantine Bulzo.
                        There had been, it seemed to her, no alternative; and there seemed to her
                        that there was no alternative now, either. But as she lay motionless in her bed, and stared into the darkness
                        with wide?opened eyes, she began, once more, to go over slowly and
                        repeatedly the steps of the argument, which had, three or four days ago,
                        become manifest to her as might the mechanism of a broken watch to a
                        watchmaker, of any very inevitable and obvious thing.
                    Hamlin had done everything for her; he had turned what she looked back upon
                        with horror, as a kind of intellectual and moral death, into life. He had
                        bought her soul free, had nourished and nurtured it, as a man might have
                        redeemed, nourished, and nurtured the body of some slave child, doomed to be
                        a cripple in a crippling occupation; he had done, she felt assured, what no
                        other man had ever done for a woman, since no other woman, she thought,
                        could have escaped from such a state of utter soul stagnation as had already
                        begun, those five years ago, in her slow, sullen nature. It was more than
                        had ever been done for another woman, and Anne felt its value more than any other; for despite the modesty and
                        frankness which often took others aback, the very stuff of her soul, like
                        the very mould of her features, was pride. She knew herself to be nobler
                        than the majority of men and women; not more intelligent, nor more honest,
                        nor more kindly, nor any one particular quality, but more homogeneous of
                        nature; not alloyed in any portion, whatever she might be; upright, sincere,
                        practical, harsh even, through and through: a reality, where they seemed but
                        half reality and half make?up. And that she should be this she owed to
                        Hamlin; without him she would have been equally homogeneous of soul, but it
                        would have been with the uniformity, the rigidity of spiritual death.
                    What Hamlin had done, he had done from no base motives, and without the
                        smallest taint of baseness in the doing: he had not actually wanted her, he
                        had wanted merely to perfect a thing that seemed to him good of its sort, to
                        make her a soul that should suit her body;
                        he had done it deliberately, consistently, unwearyingly, with a gentleness,
                        a generous tact, which had themselves been a benefit.
                    That Hamlin had acted from an imaginative whim, that he had carried out an
                        exotic artistic caprice, played a sublimated game of artistic skill, Anne
                        could not at this moment take into account. She knew, and only too well,
                        that Hamlin was selfish, whimsical, fantastic, vain, a seeker after new
                            poses and new sensations; but she knew
                        all this analytically, piecemeal as the result of thought; and she was in a
                        sense too dull, too unable to comprehend others, and, above all, too utterly
                        devoid of all vanity, whimsicalness, and theatricality, too completely of a
                        piece, a mass of granite, as she often felt, to conceive these analytically
                        recognised peculiarities as absolutely organic and active forces. She had
                        conceived Hamlin to be that which to her was the easiest
                        conception—generous; and nothing could make her conceive his behaviour
                        towards her in any any other light.
                        Moreover, there remained in this frank and fearless nature, shrinking from
                        no disillusions, one delusion which was the safer for her very consciousness
                        of uncompromising hatred of all delusions. She clung, without knowing it, to
                        the belief that in one thing at least Hamlin had been perfectly noble, that
                        no subsequently discovered weakness and baseness could ever alter that; she
                        treasured up a shred of her old ideal, the belief that whatever Hamlin might
                        be towards others and towards himself, towards her he had been the real
                        Hamlin whom she had loved and worshipped.
                    And now this Hamlin, this man to whom she owed all, and whose past she still
                        loved, was gradually being alienated from all the nobler things for which he
                        was fit—gradually being separated from his nobler self, and dragged,
                        stripped of all his better qualities, into a moral quagmire, a charnel, a
                        cloaca, to stick and rot inchwise. And this, Anne said to herself, to some
                        degree by her own fault; for had she not
                        let her antipathy for the tendencies which she had gradually discovered in
                        him, and her loathing for the tendencies of the men who surrounded him,
                        smother her gratitude, her sympathy, turn her away in sullen scorn and
                        isolation, from the man whom she was bound to help, and the men whom she was
                        bound to combat? She forgot for the moment the many abortive attempts she
                        had made to awaken the better qualities of Hamlin; or rather, she could no
                        longer conceive that those attempts had been sufficiently strenuous and
                        determined; it seemed to her, forgetful of the dead?weight of opposition,
                        that she must have been very feeble and half?hearted. Instead of thinking of
                        him, she had thought only of herself, of preserving her own soul from
                        infection, of keeping her own soul strong and active; she had selfishly
                        thought of the world’s miseries, which she could not prevent, instead of
                        thinking of Hamlin, whom she might have saved; and finally, she had let
                        herself indulge in dreams of liberty, that is to say, of 
                            deser? tion
                            desertion
                         of her duty. Those monks and nuns of former days, for whom she
                        felt such unutterable contempt, had they acted differently from her when
                        they left their fellow?men to perish in sin, in order that they might enjoy
                        the luxury of virtue in a convent or a desert? She loathed æsthetes like
                        Hamlin; and yet, what had she herself been, save an æsthete of another sort,
                        selfishly preoccupied with spiritual comfort, and worse than any of them for
                        the very moral consciousness which lay at the root of this immorality?
                    Why had she not driven away Edmund Lewis, opposing herself to him with all
                        her might? Why had she not driven away Sacha Elaguine? Now that she had
                        learned from Melton Perry what this woman really was, every single
                        circumstance of their former intercourse, every single fact and suggestion
                        that had come to her, from Mrs Macgregor’s warnings to Edmund Lewis’s
                        cowardly accusation,—all the hundred little impressions which she herself
                        had received, grouped themselves together,
                        and made it obvious that Sacha must be, could only have been, the horrible
                        walking depravity which she had been revealed. Essentially unanalytic of
                        mind, Miss Brown could now no longer conceive how it was that she had not
                        understood Madame Elaguine at once; in that massive horror with which the
                        Russian woman had filled her, it was impossible to remember all the deluding
                        little circumstances which had closed her heart to suspicion—nay, all the
                        purity of her own nature, the charity, the desire to be equitable, which had
                        made this now so overpowering mass of abomination not merely impossible to
                        realise, but impossible to conceive. It seemed to her as if Sacha must
                        always have shown herself what she was; and that she, Anne Brown, must have
                        wilfully closed her eyes. She had never asked herself whether it was not her
                        duty towards Hamlin to come to some conclusion about his cousin; she had let
                        their connection drift on; she had seen in the ruin of the man to whom she
                        owed all, only a means to her own
                        deliverance from a life which she hated, from a duty which she shirked. Anne
                        remembered how she had watched with terror that look of weariness and shame
                        on Hamlin’s face, which ought to have told her that this poor, weak, sick
                        soul might still be saved; she remembered the joy with which she had heard
                        of Hamlin’s departure for Paris—that is to say, of the crowning act of
                        weakness and folly which had made him the chattel of his cousin. Anne
                        loathed herself as a woman might loathe herself, who recognised that she had
                        let some living creature die of hunger and want of nursing. Shame she did
                        not feel, nor yet remorse; she cared too little for herself to care for her
                        own ideals; she did not once think that she had been mistaken, that she had
                        been base, ungrateful, that she was dishonoured in her own eyes; she merely
                        thought that Hamlin was on the brink of ruin, ruin of all his nobler self
                        and of his happiness—that she had done it, and that she was there, alone, to
                        save him. In those long hours, lying motionless in the dark, the face of Hamlin, as she had recently
                        seen it, that weak, profoundly depressed, half?degraded face, was constantly
                        before her eyes; and surrounding it, vague and threatening, the faces—so
                        strangely like it and transfigured in a kind of tragic degradation, of the
                        portraits at Wotton Hall—of Hamlin’s half?crazy, disgraced brother; of his
                        odious, passion?stained father; of his drunken uncles; above all, that
                        beautiful woman’s face, with the curled hair and loose collar—that face so
                        curiously compounded of effeminacy, whimsicalness, and cynical
                        self?abandonment; of his great?uncle Mordaunt, whose portrait had been
                        exiled to the lumber?room, whose name banished from the memory of his
                        relatives; and along with them, and resembling them like a brother, the
                        confused, imaginary image of that miserable Greek lad whom Sacha Elaguine
                        had ruined.
                    Was it still time? Could Hamlin still be saved? was he already hopelessly
                        bound for life to Madame Elaguine? Had Anne waked up too late? She did not know. She only knew that
                        there was not an hour, not a moment to lose; and that there was but one
                        thing to be done. Hamlin must not, should not, marry Sacha. And the only way
                        to prevent it was that he should marry Anne Brown. He might, as Lewis said,
                        and as she believed, already be the lover of Madame Elaguine; but he was not
                        yet the husband, and most probably not yet the betrothed. And was he not
                        bound, by that paper which the ignoble suspiciousness of Richard Brown had
                        required of him in that distant past in Florence, to marry Anne Brown at
                        whatever time she rnight call upon him to do so?
                    “I must become his wife,” said Anne to herself; and she said it as she might
                        have said “the sun must rise in so many hours.” There was no room for
                        hesitation on her part; the choice, the act of volition, was so decided,
                        that there ceased to be either choice or volition; to become Hamlin’s wife
                        seemed to Anne as an inevitable necessity coming from without. But little by little: as she lay there
                        broad awake, yet with somewhat of that tendency, as of an opium?dreamer, to
                        see things exaggerated which comes to us in darkness, she began to realise
                        the meaning of this formula—to become Hamlin’s wife. The whole past rushed
                        into her mind, and became, as it were, the mirage of the future, and that
                        mirage was horrible. To be Hamlin’s wife meant to relinquish the liberty
                        which had, for the last two or three months, been safe within her grasp, the
                        liberty of being herself. Anne was one of those natures which, though able,
                        by moments, to enjoy themselves like children, do not believe much in
                        happiness; to whom, singled out, as it were, to achieve self?sacrifice or
                        endure martyrdom, happiness is a mere name, a negative thing—but to whom
                        unhappiness is a positive reality, the thing which they expect, with which
                        their soul seems, in some pre?natal condition, to have become familiar as
                        the one great certainty. The happiness, therefore, which she was
                            losing—the independence, the activity,
                        the serenity, the possibility of a life of noble companionship with Richard
                        Brown—all this was only a distant and unsubstantial thing; she had never
                        experienced it, and it could not well be realised. But she knew by
                        experience, familiar with its every detail, the unhappiness which lay in the
                        future as Hamlin’s wife, for this future would be but a return to the past;
                        and she felt as might a person lost in a catacomb, and who, having got to a
                        chink, having seen the light and breathed the air, should be condemned to
                        wander again, to rethread for ever the black and choking corridors leading
                        nowhere. That Hamlin was lost if he married Sacha, she knew as she knew that
                        two and two make four; but she did not in the least flatter herself that her
                        own influence would be as potent for good, as Madame Elaguine’s must be
                        potent for evil. She knew Hamlin too well for that, and herself also. If
                        Hamlin had remained weak, cold, vain, and mean under her influence hitherto,
                        he must remain so for ever; he was born
                        all these things. She could prevent his growing worse, she could not make
                        him grow better; her position would be as that of a woman who devoted
                        herself to nurse a person sick of an incurable disease: there would be none
                        of the excitement of a possible cure, only the routine, the anxiety peculiar
                        to a case where the patient is for ever on the brink of getting worse.
                    To be understood, to be sympathised with, to be loved really and really to
                        love—none of these things would be for her. But, after all, what right had
                        she to any of them? Anne was, in all matters concerning herself, a born
                        fatalist and pessimist; the words of Goethe, “Entbehren sollst du, sollst
                        entbehren,” were to her not an admonition, but a mere statement of fact. She
                        had, for a time, fancied that she clutched happiness; if it had turned out,
                        like the goddess clutched by Ixion, a mere mist, why, that was quite
                        natural; there was nothing to complain of in that.
                    But suddenly there came a sense not any
                        longer of the loss of happiness, but of a sickened revolt from all the
                        things which this sacrifice of happiness implied. Not to love, not to be
                        loved. Well, that was natural; but to submit to becoming the property of a
                        man whom she did not love, and who could not, in her eyes, ever love her,
                        that was another thing. Edmund Lewis and Madame Elaguine, learned in such
                        matters, had been perfectly correct when they declared that Anne was, in
                        their sense of the word, passionless, cold. To this woman, consumed by
                        intellectual and moral passion, her womanhood meant merely the instincts of
                        superior chastity, of superior soul cleanness, which seem the birthright of
                        women, as the instincts of superior generosity, of superior soul energy,
                        seem the birthright of men; and this, to her the only result of womanhood,
                        merely added a positive element of repulsion to the disdain for what the
                        world is pleased to call love already existing in her. Anne Brown, born of
                        the people, grown up as a servant, left to take care of herself when scarcely more than a child, and then
                        thrust into the midst of a demoralised school of literature which gloried in
                        moral indifference,—Anne Brown had none of those misty notions of marriage
                        so easily transfigured into poetry, and which make (and perhaps fortunately)
                        many clean?souled and disdainful girls enter unconsciously and unabashed
                        upon a life frequently neither very noble nor very clean. Without
                        formulating it to herself—for she never formulated anything—Miss Brown had a
                        very strong sense that marriage without love was a mere legalised form of
                        prostitution. To become, therefore, the wife of Hamlin, was an intolerable
                        self?degradation—nay, a pollution; for it seemed to her, and the idea
                        sickened her whole soul, that the moral pollution of Sacha Elaguine would be
                        communicated to her. To become the wife of Sacha’s lover! Her limbs seemed
                        to give way, to dissolve; a horrible warm clamminess overtook her; she could
                        not breathe, or breathed only horror.
                    Anne rose from her bed, and wrapping 
                            her? self
                            herself
                         in her dressing?gown, sat down by the window, partly ajar. She
                        threw it wide open, pulled up the blinds, and, gasping, looked out into the
                        darkness. The sky was covered, not a ray of light; it was raining—she heard
                        the drops fall heavily on the leaves under the window; a warm damp gust of
                        air blew in her face. Anne did not know what it was to faint, and her limbs
                        did not give way beneath her; but she felt as if her mind, her soul, were
                        fainting, growing clammy—slipping, slipping away, dissolving into
                        nothingness. To be the wife of Sacha’s lover! With the scornful aversion
                        which a woman of actively chaste nature (for the virtue exists in most women
                        only in a negative, passive condition) experiences for the more abstract
                        idea of weakness and unchastity, was mingled—perhaps not very clearly to
                        herself—somewhat already of the wrath of the outraged wife. Under her very
                        eyes, before all the world, Hamlin had deceived her—had been another woman’s
                        lover—and had let her associate with his
                        mistress! the kind of resentment which the world sometimes mistakes for
                        jealousy, but into which there enters no love,—the sense not of being
                        neglected as an individual, but being insulted as a woman. To be the wife of
                        Sacha’s lover! Anne’s imagination—slow in all things, and slowest where any
                        ignoble or impure thing was concerned—was trailed as by an inexplicable
                        force along a dim tract of foulness.
                    No; she could not marry this man. She had no right to forego her just
                        resentment, to stifle her just disgust, no right to degrade her soul in
                        order to save his. If he was weak, vain, foredoomed to baseness, let him run
                        his career—fulfil his destiny. Some sacrifices are sins. Without identifying
                        the case, Anne’s thoughts reverted to the story, to the words of Isabella in
                        ‘Measure for Measure’; and the pride that lay at the bottom of her soul—the
                        pride of purity and strength—rose like a great wind within her. No; she
                        would not pollute her cleanness, prostitute her nobility, for this man. Anne folded her dressing?gown close
                        about her, and extended her strong fingers tight over the arms of her
                        chair—a movement like that of a judge about to pronounce a sentence. Any one
                        who could have seen her sitting thus by the window—who could have seen that
                        pale stern face, those wide?opened onyx?grey eyes looking steadfastly into
                        the darkness—would have said that this magnificent young woman with the
                        tragic features was capable of cold cruelty.
                    But though in some measure right, since there is a destructive element in all
                        strong souls, the person who should have thought like this would yet have
                        been mistaken. Anne’s ruthlessness, her cruelty, could exist only against
                        herself; the sacrifice, which seemed to her no very great matter, was the
                        sacrifice of herself.
                    Anne remained seated for a few minutes by the window, that storm of pride and
                        contempt rushing in great gusts through her whole nature. But then suddenly
                        the storm dropped.
                    
                    Here was Hamlin, to whom she owed everything, owed this very soul which
                        seemed too good to be wasted upon him, in danger of being degraded for ever
                        by this loathsome woman, this incarnation of all his own vices, this moral
                        disease become a human creature. This fate must be averted,
                        Hamlin must be saved, for his own sake and for the sake of the
                        world—of all those nobler things that he might still do; he must be saved,
                        and only one thing could save him—hence that one thing must be done. Anne
                        rose from the window. This darkness unnerved her. She struck a light and lit
                        the candles on the mantelpiece; they were in clustered candlesticks, and the
                        room was brilliantly illuminated. Anne looked round her. There was a heap of
                        books and papers on her table,—she had been interrupted in tidying them the
                        previous day. She began to put them to rights. Some of the books were the
                        manuals of political economy and works on philosophy which she was studying
                        with a view to Girton. The sight of them
                        made a knot rise in her throat and the tears come into her eyes. She felt
                        that she would never read them again. She took them in her arms, and opening
                        the lowest drawer of her writing?table, locked them up. “I will give them to
                        Marjory’s women’s club,” she thought. Then she opened another drawer, and
                        got out all her note?books and copy?books,—her many months’ work, ever since
                        Richard Brown had first lent her his primer. She turned over a few pages
                        slowly. The sentences seemed to have no meaning; her brain refused to act.
                        She took the papers one by one and tore them into small shreds, and threw
                        them into the waste?paper basket. “There is an end of that,” she said to
                        herself quietly. Anne looked round the room once more,—at the spruce Queen
                        Anne furniture which had surprised her so much, at the blue and white vases,
                        the shimmering plates, the pieces of embroidery on the wall—all the things
                        which Hamlin had put there to please her. Was there anything more—anything
                        more to be done? On the mantelpiece stood
                        a photograph of Richard Brown, unframed, which he had recently given her:
                        she had asked him for a photograph during Hamlin’s absence with Sacha. She
                        took the photograph and held it over one of the candles; it curled up,
                        charred, only the rim which she held remaining to show what it had been; she
                        turned it round and round over the flame, and then threw the crumpled piece
                        of charred pasteboard into the grate.
                    The first pale light of dawn was beginning to mingle with the light of the
                        candles, making them burn yellow, and surrounded by a sort of halo, like the
                        tapers round a catafalque. Outside she saw the chilly grey streaks of light,
                        the faint cold rose veinings of sunrise. But the sunrise itself did not
                        come; the sky gradually appeared, clotted with red and purplish reflections;
                        then the colour died away, and there remained instead a pale, suffused, grey
                        heaven. It began to drizzle. Anne left the window. The room was light now
                            with daylight—the candle?flames mere
                        yellow specks. Anne put them out; she pulled down the blinds and got into
                        bed, and again stretched herself out in that stiff way, her head propped up
                        on the pillows, trying not to think. In a few minutes she was asleep.
                    When the maid came in, she did not wake up as usual, and the girl was
                        half?frightened and very much awed by seeing Miss Brown lying straight and
                        motionless; her face, surrounded by a sort of wreath of short, curling,
                        iron?black locks, stiff on the pillow, looking, in the grey morning light
                        which came through the pale?blue blinds, like a dead woman.
                    Anne opened her eyes and looked round slowly, as if trying to collect her
                        thoughts. “Ah,” she said, half audibly, “I remember.”
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    BY an effort of manœuvring which was not very natural to her, Miss
                        Brown induced Melton Perry to take himself off after breakfast and go and
                        see some studios, an expedition which would keep him out of the way till
                        lunch. She would have Hamlin all to herself. When Perry was gone, Anne sat
                        down to write to Mary Leigh, who was in the country. There was absolutely no
                        reason why she should write to Mary, nor had she anything whatever to tell
                        her; but she was devoured by a restlessness—by a vague desire to talk to
                        some one who cared for her. She told Mary Leigh nothing of what was passing
                        through her mind, nor of the event which was pending: there was not, in her
                        letter, a word to suggest anything of the
                        sort; but there was in it the expression, vague and without motives, of the
                        great emotion which occupied her soul. “I want to tell you, dear Mary,”
                        wrote Anne, “how grateful I am for the affection which you and Marjory have
                        shown towards me lately. If I had died of that illness, it would have been a
                        great consolation to know that you cared for me so much.” She did not know
                        why, the tone of the whole letter, with all these expressions of gratitude,
                        had the solemnity of a farewell, as if written by a woman who expected to
                        die soon. And Anne really felt as if her life were coming to an end.
                    When she had finished writing, she went down to Hamlin’s studio. He would
                        come soon, and she would wait for him here.
                    It was still drizzling, and the room opening on to the garden, with its silk
                        blinds drawn down, was full of a kind of twilight. Anne walked up and down
                        for a minute or two, looking vaguely round her. A drowsy scent of faded
                        flowers, of cigarette?smoke, of she knew
                        not what scent, made her feel weak and dreamy, and reminded her, with a
                        movement of disgust, of Sacha Elaguine’s rooms. She had not been in the
                        studio of late, except for a few minutes at a time. Everything seemed to her
                        untidy and dusty—easels and boards thrown about in a way which was not usual
                        with Hamlin. She looked vaguely at the various things,—at the drawings by
                        Rossetti and Burne Jones on the walls, the books in cases, the terra cottas
                        and bits of carving on brackets, the piano with the brocade cover thrown
                        back, and the score of Wagner’s Tristram still on the desk. She looked at
                        the score and played a few notes, but stopped. She loathed that music which
                        Hamlin and Sacha so admired—that music, with its strange, insidious
                        faintings and sobbings, its hot, enervating gusts of passion. On the
                        mantelpiece, among the Japanese jars, the bronze lamps, and other similar
                        properties, her eye caught a small bottle of blue glass. She took it up: it
                        was not labelled, or the label was removed, but it left a sort of sickly?smelling stickiness on her
                        fingers. So Perry was right; Hamlin had returned to his old practice of
                        taking opium. She put the bottle back, and walked up and down once more.
                        Then her eye fell upon an unfinished portrait of herself, or what was
                        intended to be herself, which stood in the shadow. A solemn sombre woman in
                        green, with very blue peaks and glaciers in the distance, twisting the faded
                        green leaves of a palm?branch. It was the picture which Hamlin had begun
                        long, long ago in Florence; and her mind went back to that other rainy day,
                        as gloomy as this one, seemingly centuries ago, when she had stood in the
                        tower studio, about to take leave of Hamlin, as she thought, for the last
                        time. Was she really as sombre as that picture? thought Anne. On a table,
                        gritty with dust, lay an open sketch?book; Anne took it up listlessly. The
                        sheet was scrawled with several versions of an allegorical design, feebly
                        drawn, scarcely more than outlined, and, as it seemed, in a moment of
                            weariness. A beautiful naked youth was
                        clutched by a huge, haggard woman, her torn dress licking his body like
                        flames, her lips greedily advancing to his delicate face, which shrank back,
                        like a flower withering in the heat of a furnace. There were several
                        versions, crossing and recrossing each other oddly, but always the same
                        flower?like winged boy writhing in the terrible breath of this embrace,
                        always that fainting beautiful face, and those burning lips with the suction
                        of flame. Beneath one of the versions was scrawled, “Amor a Libidine
                        interfectus,” and a few lines, half scratched out, of a sonnet. Anne did not
                        read them; she put down the sketch?book. She knew the sense of that
                        allegory, even before her eye caught the words, “and thus my soul,” which
                        formed one of the lines of the rough?scrawled sonnet. Anne shuddered. Steps
                        came along the corridor—Hamlin’s steps. She sat down near the window, for
                        she expected her heart would have begun beating even to bursting. But it was
                        not so; Miss Brown felt wonderfully calm.
                    
                    “I want to talk to you about something, Mr Hamlin,” she said, when he had
                        recovered from the surprise of finding her in the studio. “You have nothing
                        very pressing to do just now, I hope?”
                    “Nothing,” answered Hamlin; “I am at your disposal.” He sat down opposite to
                        her, and began to fidget with the pencils and pen?knives lying on the table.
                        He was very pale, haggard, and looked tired and worried.
                    “You don’t seem well,” said Anne, mechanically.
                    “I am horribly nervous, that’s all,” he answered, passing his hand through
                        his hair. “I suppose it’s this damp heat. Will it annoy you if I smoke a
                        cigarette? I feel my brain spinning.”
                    Anne nodded, and waited in silence till he had taken two or three puffs.
                    “Mr Hamlin,” she suddenly began, in a low, steady voice, rather like a person
                        reciting a lesson, “it is going on three years since I left Coblenz and came
                        into this house. I am over twenty?four,
                        and I don’t think it is possible to continue much longer on the theory that
                        I am your ward. It is time that something should be decided about my
                        future.”
                    Hamlin listened quietly, with a certain listless and helpless look that was
                        very painful.
                    “I quite agree with you,” he answered, “and I fully see how greatly I am to
                        blame in not having forestalled you. You must not suppose that I have not
                        thought more than once about this matter. I have done so, I assure you. But
                        somehow, things have always come in the way; and then, you know, I—I did not
                        wish to put any pressure upon you. In short, I am unable to say how it is
                        that I have placed myself in what may appear to be the wrong in this
                        matter.”
                    Again he passed his hand across his head.
                    “Forgive me,” he said, “for being so feeble this morning. I really have a
                        wretched headache.”
                    “I am very sorry for you,” answered Anne, but adding with the same deliberate 
                            resolu? tion
                            resolution
                        , “but all the same, I feel that I can no longer delay, and that I
                        must avail myself of this opportunity to ask you a question. Have you any
                        intention of marrying me?”
                    Hamlin, who had been sitting with his head resting on his hand, vacantly
                        watching the wreathing smoke of his cigarette, suddenly looked up at Anne.
                        She was seated very erect in a high?backed chair opposite, looking taller,
                        calmer than ever, less girlish than ever also, although he had never thought
                        of her, even years ago, as a girl. He looked at her for a moment in silence;
                        a long, lingering, and very melancholy look.
                    “Miss Brown,” he answered, and his voice became tremulous towards the end of
                        his speech, “you have, if you remember the terms of our reciprocal
                        engagement, always been free; and you are free. It is rather sad for me to
                        reflect—and perhaps a little sad for you also—how very differently things
                        have turned out from what I believe both of us anticipated. And it is, as
                        you may understand, not a little sad to
                        part with what has been the best thing in my life—to end my best episode.
                        But you must remember that I never wished you to be otherwise than perfectly
                        independent; it has been a great matter in a useless life like mine to have
                        contributed to reinstate you, as it were, in your birthright; it will be
                        something to think of later, that I have been conducive in making you what
                        you are; and”—Hamlin had risen from his chair and stretched out his
                        hand—“will you believe me also when I say that I am very, very happy that
                        you have found a man whom you can love and respect, and who can make you
                        happy?”
                    Hamlin’s mouth, that delicate mouth with the uncertain lines, began to
                        quiver. Anne turned very red, and then, suddenly, very white. She did not
                        take his hand; she did not look at him as he stood before her; her eyes
                        seemed fixed in space, as she answered in a voice which became steadier and
                        louder as she went on—
                    “You don’t understand me. I was not
                        alluding to any notion of marrying my cousin. I don’t want to marry Richard.
                        What I want to ask you is this: Will you marry me, Mr Hamlin?”
                    Anne, spoke very slowly, gravely, and calmly; but as she spoke, she felt her
                        heart tighten. There remained still one chance, one shred of hope, and in
                        another moment that might be gone.
                    A sudden convulsion passed over Hamlin’s face; he caught at the back of a
                        chair, for he seemed trembling and reeling, his eyes closed for a moment as
                        if he were choking, and he made a vague helpless movement with one hand, as
                        a man who cannot speak. Then, suddenly, he flung himself down before Miss
                        Brown’s chair, seized both her hands, and covered his face with them.
                    “Anne—Anne!” he cried.
                    They remained thus for a moment; she seated upright in the chair, he on his
                        knees, her hands pressed to his face.
                    “Anne—you love me,” he murmured.
                    
                    Miss Brown did not answer. She looked straight before her into space,
                        fixedly, vaguely, taking in nothing, with her solemn, tearless, grey eyes.
                        She felt as if she were waiting she knew not for what, counting the tickings
                        of an unheard clock.
                    “You love me, Anne; you love me!” cried Hamlin, louder; and pressing closer
                        to her, he put out his arms, and drew down her face to his, and kissed her,
                        twice, thrice, a long kiss on the mouth.
                    It seemed to Anne as if she felt again the throttling arms of Sacha Elaguine
                        about her neck, her convulsive kiss on her face, the cloud of her drowsily
                        scented hair stifling her. She drew back, and loosened his grasp with her
                        strong hands.
                    Hamlin sprang up. His face was changed: he was radiant. He took her hand in
                        both his, and looked long into her eyes.
                    “Forgive me,” he whispered; “forgive me—oh, forgive me, Anne. That all this
                        time I should have been so blind—thought
                        you indifferent and contemptuous. Oh, forgive me for all my wickedness, my
                        folly; forgive me, my darling, for not having understood that I belonged to
                        you, that you loved me.”
                    Anne nodded without speaking. She could not tell a lie, even now; and she
                        knew she must not tell the truth. Yet never perhaps had she loathed Hamlin
                        as she loathed him—vain, fatuously happy—at this moment that he believed she
                        had confessed that she loved him.
                    “Well, then,” she said quickly, “perhaps you can understand that—after what
                        has passed, you understand—I am anxious that we should get married at once.
                        Perry was asking me, only the other day, why things had dragged on so long;
                        and then also there is . . .”
                    “I understand,” interrupted Hamlin. “Oh, forgive me, dearest. I never, never
                        really loved that woman: I could not have loved her. I have never loved but
                        you. Will you believe it?”
                    
                    “You will never see her again?—I mean, never except in my presence? ” went on
                        Anne. “Will you promise that? And will you promise to leave London in a day
                        or two—to go to Italy, anywhere where she is not—and wait till I can join
                        you with Aunt Claudia?”
                    “I promise; I will do anything. Oh, Anne, if only you will forget all that;
                        if you will believe me when I tell you that I never loved that woman—that I
                        felt the whole time that she was debasing, humiliating me, making me forfeit
                        all my honour and my happiness . . .”
                    Anne paid no attention to these assurances. So he was shifting all the shame
                        of his weakness and baseness and sensuality on to another,—washing his hands
                        of the woman who had given herself to him. How like him! How well, how
                        terribly well, Anne knew him!
                    “You have promised, remember,” she repeated,—“you will leave to?morrow, the
                        day after—as soon as you can. You won’t tell her where you are going—do you
                        understand? You will write to?day, and tell her of our marriage, and that you have promised never to see
                        her again.”
                    Hamlin kissed her hand with passion.
                    “And listen,” went on Miss Brown; “this evening there is a big party at the
                        Argiropoulos. I did not intend going; but I wish to go now. Write to Mrs
                        Argiropoulo to tell her we are coming together; explain that we are going to
                        be married; ask her to tell all her guests. I want every one to know. Do you
                        understand, Mr Hamlin—Walter, I mean? You won’t lose time, will you?”
                    “No, no!” cried Hamlin; “I understand. Only forgive me; and tell me that you
                        love me, my darling;” and he seized Anne, and kissed her again with a sort
                        of fury. “Tell me that you forgive me for all that I have made you suffer,
                        Anne. Speak,—only one word, Anne—one word.”
                    Anne covered her eyes with her hand.
                    “I forgive you, Walter,” she answered, and burst into tears. But she wiped
                        them away, and, rising suddenly, left the room.
                    
                    “Walter is leaving for Italy to?morrow,” she said, as she met Melton Perry in
                        the corridor. “I want you to accompany me and Aunt Claudia there in a few
                        days. Mr Hamlin and I are going to be married.”
                    “God bless my soul!” cried Perry. “When—where—why didn’t you tell me before?”
                        But Anne was out of sight.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    IN the blazing drawing?room, where a crowd of black coats and
                        shining bare shoulders and fashionable dresses contrasted drolly with the
                        melancholy thin Cupids of Burne Jones, the mournful mysterious ladies of
                        Rossetti, which adorned the walls, one of Mrs Argiropoulo’s many musical
                        celebrities was wailing Austrian popular songs at the piano. Miss Brown, who
                        had undergone the universal staring and received the general congratulations
                        with a monosyllabic composure much criticised on all hands, had slipped
                        away, when the Austrian tenor approached the piano, to the furthest end of
                        the room, where she was half protected from sight by the plants of an
                        adjacent conservatory. All this triumph, people said to 
                            them? selves
                            themselves
                        , as they looked round at her seated alone in the corner, dressed
                        in a wonderful garment of cloth?of?silver, resting her dark head on her
                        hand, was too much even for her. Yet in reality Miss Brown did not feel any
                        emotion; she was too tired for that. She felt as if she had just finished a
                        long journey, or as she used sometimes to do years ago after a hard
                        morning’s ironing in summer—weary, broken, too numb for thought or for pain.
                        The guttural voice of the Austrian tenor, wailing out the simple little
                        mountain songs, which would at any other time have brought the tears into
                        her eyes and a thought of death into her heart, seemed to her vague and
                        distant like a voice in a dream; and like a crowd seen through a mist seemed
                        all these very concrete men and women all about her. As the last notes of
                        the song died away, she felt the touch of a fan, the downy stroke of a bunch
                        of feathers, on her neck. It was Madame Elaguine behind her; but the sight
                        of Madame Elaguine caused Anne no emotion, and she followed the Russian woman, who beckoned her into
                        the neighbouring conservatory, in the same absent way as she had answered
                        the congratulations of her acquaintances.
                    “You are very tired, Annie dear,” said Madame Elaguine, in one of her
                        caressing half?whispers, but fixing her eyes on Miss Brown with a look which
                        was anything but a caress. “All this emotion—this general ovation and
                        triumph, this great joy of satisfied love—has been too much for you, poor
                        child!”
                    Anne shook her head, thrown back on the Persian embroidery of an ottoman,
                        among the large tropical leaves and the delicate stems of bamboos and fern
                        plants. She knew that this woman wished to insult her; but she was too weary
                        and absent?minded to care.
                    “I am merely rather tired. I didn’t get much sleep last night,” she answered,
                        as she might have answered the maid who pulled up her blinds in the morning.
                        Madame Elaguine seemed a hundred miles away from her: she shrank neither from a woman whom she loathed, nor
                        from a woman who, she felt, was bent upon insulting her.
                    She did not feel Madame Elaguine’s glance, although the glance was
                        concentrated hatred and outrage.
                    “Poor child!” repeated Sacha, taking one of her hands and pressing it between
                        her own burning ones. “Poor child! Ah, well, I won’t bore you with
                        congratulations. I know Walter sufficiently well to know how happy he will
                        make you; and I know how deeply you have loved him all the while, and how
                        faithfully he has always loved you. But I want to give you a little
                        wedding?present. I have brought it here, because Walter has written to me
                        that you don’t want to have your bliss disturbed, and are going off at once.
                        Quite right. When people are very happy, there’s something immodest in
                        letting the world see it and be jealous; that’s the classic view, isn’t it?”
                        As she spoke she drew from out of her cloud of lace and feather trimmings a
                        little leathern case.
                    
                    “Oh dear no,” went on Madame Elaguine, “you mustn’t think I’ve been ruining
                        myself. I’m far too much of a pauper and far too selfish to go making
                        handsome presents. It doesn’t cost me anything, you see, for Walter gave me
                        them last month; and as I really don’t care a jackstraw about pearls, and I
                        accepted them merely to please him, I think it’s much better you should have
                        them to make the set complete, since you have the necklace.”
                    The case contained two large pearl ear?rings, which Anne immediately
                        recognised as part of the set once belonging to Hamlin’s mother which he had
                        shown her long ago at Wotton. Round her own neck was the former Mrs Hamlin’s
                        pearl necklace; he had given it to her that evening, not a fortnight,
                        perhaps, since giving Sacha the ear?rings.
                    Anne looked at the ear?rings for a moment, feeling the triumphant eyes of
                        Sacha upon her; she felt also her face grow crimson, and her soul waking out
                        of its state of lethargic indifference, with a fierce desire to tear the
                            pearls off her own throat, and crush
                        them into the carpet with her foot.
                    “Thank you,” she merely said, closing the box and handing it back to Sacha;
                        “I don’t think I could wear them, Madame Elaguine. And I don’t think my
                        husband would wish me to wear them,” she added, but the words half stuck in
                        her throat.
                    “Won’t you, really?” said the Russian. “I assure you Walter will be most
                        mortified if he hear that you have refused them. It would be a hundred
                        pities that the set should be spoilt. I wouldn’t have taken these, if he
                        hadn’t told me that I should have the rest. You see, I was the nearest of
                        kin last month. And I’m sure it would make poor Aunt Philippa turn in her
                        grave to know that all her things did not go to Miss Anne Brown. Ah, well—as
                        you like. I can always get them exchanged at the jeweller’s for something
                        else—or I’ll tell Walter, and he can buy them back for you. That’s more like
                        a pauper’s proceeding.”
                    “Thank you, Madame Elaguine,” said Anne,
                        preparing to rise, “I think I ought to go and talk to some of the people in
                        the next room.”
                    But Madame Elaguine laid hold of her wrist. “Don’t go yet, my dear Madonna of
                        the Glaciers—I shan’t see you again, perhaps, for a long while, and I want
                        you to tell me some things. I’m a horrible ill?bred little creature, I know,
                        but I can’t help it. I’ve always had a lot of morbid curiosities. One of
                        them is how love?marriages are made up—how it all comes about. You see I
                        wasn’t married for love—I was married for money by my Russian relations. But
                        I always think I should like to know about love?marriages. Tell me what
                        Walter said to you—how he did it. I wish I’d seen it.”
                    Anne’s face was burning. Each of Madame Elaguine’s words was a piece of
                        insolence.
                    “Did you always love him—ever since the beginning—ever since he sent you to
                        school; and have you always gone on caring for him in the same way?” went on
                        Madame Elaguine. “Fancy, I thought you didn’t care much for Walter, almost disliked him; I almost thought you
                        were in love with your big black cousin. It was like my obtuseness! Do tell
                        me all about it . . .”
                    “There is nothing to tell you, Madame Elaguine,” said Anne. “Mr Hamlin and I
                        are going to be married, that’s all.”
                    “In short,” answered Madame Elaguine, bursting into an angry laugh, “you
                        thought better of it; you learned to appreciate the satisfaction of getting
                        a handsome husband, with a good name and a good fortune. I think you are
                        quite right. Mrs Hamlin of Wotton sounds better than Mrs Richard Brown. Or
                        else are you still sufficiently human to enjoy making a man give the cold
                        shoulder to another woman? I fear I must spoil your satisfaction in this. I
                        have never cared a button for Walter. I would not have married Walter for
                        anything you could offer me; I only cared to bring down his pride a little,
                        in remembrance of the days when his great virtue of seventeen had me turned
                        out of my uncle’s house, like a housemaid
                        who has made love with the butler. As to Walter himself, you are welcome to
                        him, though I don’t promise that some day the whim may not return to me to
                        amuse myself a little more at his expense.” Miss Brown looked at Madame
                        Elaguine with disgust: this delicate charming little creature seemed
                        suddenly transformed into Mrs Perry’s housemaid Beppa, whom she had
                        overtaken one day, years ago in Florence, browbeating and insulting the
                        laundress’s girl, accusing her of trying to get between herself and the
                        man?cook.
                    “All this is very useless and disagreeable,” she said, rising to go.
                        “Good?bye, Madame Elaguine.”
                    But Sacha laid her hand on Miss Brown’s arm.
                    “I see,” she said, “your friend and former master Mr Perry has been
                        entertaining you with anecdotes of my life, and perhaps Edmund Lewis has
                        been doing so also. Very shocking, weren’t they? Well, I won’t insult you
                        any longer with my presence. But I think
                        it’s as well that you should know in time that if I have been in the mud
                        according to your ideas, Walter Hamlin has been into it with me. It’s rather
                        difficult to make such things clear to a Madonna of the Glaciers, but
                        perhaps Mr Perry will help you to understand the matter. To put it plainly,
                        ever since you fell ill, Walter has been my lover.”
                    The little woman spoke in a very low but very distinct voice, unabashed,
                        brazen, almost smiling. She said the last words not in shame, but in
                        triumph; hurled them at Anne as an outrage, almost as a thunderbolt.
                    “I knew it already,” answered Miss Brown, gathering her white brocade skirts
                        about her.
                    “You knew it!” exclaimed Madame Elaguine, staring at her as if she could not
                        believe her ears.
                    “You knew it!” she repeated after a moment, a sudden triumphant scorn coming
                        into her face. “You knew it, and you make him marry you all the same! Well,
                        I wish you all possible happiness, and I rejoice that Walter has got a wife who understands so well how
                        to deal with him. As to me, pray don’t think that I bear you any malice. I
                        am only surprised and amused; and extremely interested, from the
                        psychological point of view, in finding that a virtuous woman may condescend
                        to things which would turn the stomach of a woman who has no pretence to
                        virtue.”
                    Anne brushed aside the palm?leaves and ferns of the conservatory door. A
                        sudden pain, as of a blow with the fist, was at her heart. She did not
                        answer, for she felt that there was truth in Sacha’s insult.
                    Miss Brown had forgotten that ignominy is an almost indispensable part of all
                        martyrdom.
                    She found Hamlin standing in a little knot of friends.
                    “I fear I must be going home rather early,” he said, “as I set off for the
                        Italian lakes tomorrow morning, and all my packing still remains to be done.
                        And I think,” he added, with a kind of supplicating look, “that Miss Brown looks rather tired also, and ought
                        to let me escort her home.”
                    Anne nodded. She saw the burly shoulders, the bushy black head of Richard
                        Brown in the crowd, and she dreaded meeting him.
                    “Let us go,” she said.
                    But as they were turning away, Richard made his way to his cousin.
                    “Good evening, Annie,” he said, in an off?hand voice; “I have had no
                        opportunity of congratulating you and Mr Hamlin.”
                    “Thank you, Dick,” answered Miss Brown, her eyes mechanically avoiding his.
                        “I’m sorry it’s so late; the carriage is at the door, and Mr Hamlin and I
                        must be leaving.”
                    “Ah, very good!” said Brown. “Well, then, I will take you down, and help you
                        to get your wraps, while Mr Hamlin finishes taking leave of his friends.” He
                        gave a contemptuous nod to Hamlin, waited for Anne to have said good?bye to
                        her friends, and pushed his way with her through the crowd, while Mrs Argiropoulo murmured, for the thirtieth or
                        fortieth time that evening—
                    “Well, I must say it is a satisfaction to see two people who are really made
                        for each other, like Walter Hamlin and dear Anne.”
                    There was no one as yet in the highly æsthetic study, which had been turned
                        into a perfect exhibition of fantastic shawls and opera?cloaks. They had
                        said nothing while going down?stairs, and even now Richard Brown was silent,
                        as he hunted about for his cousin’s cloak.
                    “Anne, are you there?” asked Hamlin’s voice from the corridor.
                    Richard Brown’s heavy brows contracted. “Here’s your fan,” he said, stooping
                        to pick it up. “Good?bye, Nan! I hope you may be happy—”
                    She stretched out her hand. “Good?bye, Dick!” said Miss Brown, raising her
                        eyes shyly upon him; “you have been very good to me—”
                    Richard looked at her for a moment as she stood under the lamp, in her
                        shimmering white dress. Then, as she was
                        going away on Hamlin’s entrance, he turned round suddenly to her and
                        murmured, in his hot angry whisper—
                    “Good?bye, Nan—you mercenary creature!”
                    A few intimate friends had assembled near the hall door, to say good?bye.
                    “Here, Mr Chough,” cried fat old Mr Saunders, the impeccable disciple of Fra
                        Angelico, “you’ll be just in time to write a nice bridal ode while Miss
                        Brown packs her boxes to?morrow. Mind you cut out Spenser and Suckling and
                        all the rest of them, old boy.”
                    Cosmo Chough, his cat?like black whiskers brushed fiercely over a shirt
                        fantastically frilled and starched, to show his eighteenth?century
                        proclivities, made one of his beautiful bows.
                    “Some better poet than I must write that ode,” he said; “all that her poor
                        servant Cosmo can do, is to thank Miss Brown from all his heart for marrying
                        his dearest friend.”
                    Anne heard the voice of the Poet of Womanhood vaguely, distantly, like all
                        the others.
                    
                    “Is the carriage there, Mr Hamlin?” she asked.
                    “Here it is. Good night! Good?bye!” cried Hamlin. He jumped in after her.
                    “Oh, Anne! that you should really have loved me all this time—you, really
                        you; and that I should never have understood it,” he whispered, pressing her
                        hand, as the carriage rolled off.
                    “Are you cold, my love?”
                    Miss Brown suddenly shivered, as he put his arm round her shoulder. The flash
                        of a street lamp as they passed quickly, had shown her Hamlin’s face close
                        to her own, and radiant with the triumph of satisfied vanity.
                
            
            THE END.
            PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.
        
    
