
     ----CITATION----
        Skene, Felicia (1821-1899). The Shadow of the Holy Week. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 80 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (4-June-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7153
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    The Shadow of the Holy Week.
                
                BY THE AUTHOR OF “THE DIVINE MASTER.”
                
                    ‘He turneth the shadow of death into the morning’
                
                
                    LONDON: 
                    J. MASTERS AND CO.,
                        78, NEW BOND STREET.
                
                1883.
            
            
            
                LONDON: PRINTED BY J. MASTERS AND CO., ALBION BUILDINGS, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE,
                    E.C.
            
        
        
        
            The Shadow of the Holy Week.
            
                Palm Sunday.
                THE dawn of a fair spring day has flooded all the eastern land with
                    brilliant sunshine, the calm blue sky is without a cloud throughout its serene
                    expanse, and every hill and valley far and near smiles in the golden light; the
                    soft air echoes with the song of birds and the voices of laughing children,
                    while the crowds that are passing to and fro on their business or their
                    pleasure, seem to have caught on their happy faces all the radiance of the
                    morning. Yes! there is brightness everywhere, save in one spot; over the city of
                    the Great King—Jerusalem—the joy of the whole
                    earth, there lies a strange portentous shadow, unseen to the multitudes who
                    throng its streets or to those who gaze on the Temple buildings from afar, but
                    visible to One Who from all eternity has foreknown the meaning of that
                    mysterious gloom and all that it portends.
                It is the shadow of impending Doom; the doom not of death alone, but of every
                    concentrated agony which can be endured by a Victim in Whose awful Being are
                    united the human nature and the Godhead. JESUS has drawn
                    nigh unto Jerusalem. He stands upon the mount of Olives. He looks towards the
                    guilty city, of which it shall be said, in that last Day when the heavens and
                    the earth must flee away before the Face of the Almighty Judge, that there the
                        LORD was crucified. He takes His way along the path
                    that leads to it, in meek and lowly guise; and while all the world around Him is
                    glad with joy and sunshine, He passes in beneath the shadow that enshrouds it
                    like a funeral pall—Jesus entered into Jerusalem.
                As it was in the springtide of that momentous year which is linked to all cycles
                    of time, before and since, by the power of an Undying Love, so is it in these
                    latter days, when for us tenanting the earth in
                    our generation, once more the winter has passed and gone, and the singing of
                    birds is heard among the opening flowers; the gladness and beauty of early
                    spring is around us again and all are rejoicing in the reviving nature, the
                    tread of eager feet tells of the ceaseless search for pleasure or excitement,
                    while mirthful voices echo through the air and the smile of the sunshine is
                    reflected on hopeful faces; only amid the universal brightness there is now even
                    as there was then, one spot shrouded in mournful darkness, for the eyes that
                    will to behold it. Over the Jerusalem of Passiontide the shadow lies of His
                    remembered Doom, and they who would in true commemoration watch with Him through
                    all His hours of Agony, must turn from the smiling world and its joys, to enter
                    with Him into the precincts of death and pain beneath that veil of ominous
                    gloom.
                Let us go that in spirit we may die with Him. JESUS enters
                    into Jerusalem and all the city is moved, saying, “Who is this?” At
                    the entrance of Holy Week we answer, “He is our life,”—even as, on the threshold
                    of the world beyond the grave, we hope to say, “He is our Life Eternal.”
                
                Within the limit of these seven days we may see concentrated, the whole mystery
                    of that Redemption of the human race, which stretches from everlasting to
                    everlasting in the changeless purpose of the Infinite GOD. In the progress of JESUS from the triumphant
                    palm?strewn way, to the Sepulchre sealed in darkness and silence beneath the
                    great stone, there is a close analogy with every stage of mortal existence, and
                    we shall find that the manner of His being from hour to hour, touches all forms
                    of possible discipline by which we may be moulded into His Likeness, and drawn
                    into union with the Living GOD.
                For us, the Incarnation, the Passion, and the Sacrifice all proclaim the same
                    Truth, that the intense desire of happiness, the inappeasable craving for an
                    unknown good, which is coexistent with our very consciousness, can have its
                    satisfaction only in Him, Who is the manifest Love of GOD, since it is but the inevitable search for the one object of our
                    being, the demand, uncomprehended by ourselves, of our GOD?created spirits for that LORD of Life Who
                    has made us for Himself.
                Once it was said unto JESUS, “All men seek
                    Thee,” and in these words was revealed the secret which lies at the
                    heart of all humanity. It is JESUS Whom every living soul
                    is seeking; it is the dumb unconscious supplication of their very nature, for
                    Him Who is the Bliss, the Life, the Eternity, that alone can fill their
                    deathless spirits, which speaks in all the restlessness, the futile struggling
                    in disappointment and despair, that load this world with a thousand forms of
                    anguish.
                If we enter with Him now beneath the shadow of the Holy Week, we shall learn in
                    each one of its ever darkening hours, not only, how truly it is for JESUS that unknowingly we seek from the first moment of
                    earthly existence to the last, but after what manner also, the probation of
                    every stage of mortal life is fashioned in union with that Sacrifice of
                    Suffering, whereby alone He has placed within our reach the beatitude of His
                    Eternal Love.
                The very first accents of the Divine Voice, which we hear as we pass with Him
                    into the shrouded city of the Passion, proclaim this the central Truth of our
                    whole being.
                “If thou hadst known, even thou, in this thy day, the things that belong
                        unto thy peace,”— and—Jesus
                        wept!—Not only for Jerusalem, nor for all the myriads living on the
                    earth that day, but for every individual soul who has ever entered on probation
                    here, and to whom those words have been spoken in vain, so that they have
                    reached the bourne of troubled tortured life without having realized that He,
                    and He alone, is our Peace. He wept in that hour for the suffering He knew that
                    each one through all succeeding ages should endure, whoever sought for happiness
                    or rest apart from Him. Shall not the thought of those tears fall like heavenly
                    dew upon the aching hearts, that vainly have beat so high for the delusive hopes
                    of earth, telling us that although we have turned aside deceived, from Him our
                    only good, yet can His Divine compassion reach us still, and He Who wept for us
                    is ready even now to wipe away all our tears?
                
                    If thou hadst known—even thou—thy Peace.
                
                Let us enter on the seven awful days, bearing those words within our hearts as
                    the solution of the problems of life for us and for all mankind. To each
                    separate human being there comes at some period of their lives, the time of
                    their visitation which is known only to their own souls and to their GOD, but the
                    recurrence of this Holy Week is also in its measure a time of visitation, of
                    which the responsibility will surely rest upon us all for weal or for woe.
                It is the dawn of the first Palm Sunday, and we see in it the type of the morning
                    of existence. Whether those springtide years are with us still, or looking back
                    we see them from the toilsome paths of later life, the lesson taught us is the
                    same. “Behold, thy King cometh,” and they say unto Him,
                        “Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the
                        Lord.”
                Their adoration for the moment is sincere, yet these are they who later in the
                    march of time shall cry out, “Crucify Him, crucify Him, we have no king but
                    Cæsar!” They deceived themselves, they believed that they loved Him, that they
                    desired to have Him for their only but when to own Him meant peril and pain,
                    they cast Him out to die, and gave to the earthly monarch their allegiance and
                    their truth.
                Has it not been even so with ourselves? We were called by the name of CHRIST in our early youth, and believed that we were surely
                    His in loyalty and faith. We adored Him as our
                    King, and offered Him the fragile flowers we plucked upon the sunlit paths
                    wherein we were content to follow Him, but when the royal march with waving
                    palms and songs exultant led into the Dolorous Way, when the shadow closed
                    around Him, when the sunshine of joy and the flowers of life were all left far
                    behind Him, when He entered into the temple of our spirits and demanded that He
                    should reign there as our only King and GOD,—did we not
                    shrink from the terrible sentence uttered at that very temple door, “He
                        that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this
                        world shall keep it unto life eternal.”
                Did we not love the fair expanse of years which seemed to stretch out before us,
                    bright with the golden promise of imagined joys, the royal gifts which the Cæsar
                    of this world could bestow, to whom our hearts went out in secret homage, while
                    outwardly we seemed to worship CHRIST the LORD? Not only, perhaps, in youth, but even to this day may it not
                    have been so with us? If in this our hearts condemn us, then may we feel indeed
                    that Holy Week has brought to us the time of our visitation, for the special warning of Palm Sunday bids us look to it,
                    lest unknowingly we have deceived ourselves with a fair show of outward homage
                    to the Crucified, while in our secret heart we adored the world?power who could
                    gild for us the fleeting days of earthly life. ?????
                        ???????, know thyself, judge thyself this day, that the Sacred
                    Victim Who would draw thee after Him now into the shadow of His Passion, judge
                    thee not hereafter as a self?deceiver, in the piercing light of the Great White
                    Throne.
                This is the lesson of the first of the seven holy days, but each one is marked by
                    a special consolation for those who are true to their Redeemer, no less than by
                    a definite warning to all who may be false to Him in heart,—and now from the
                    rebuke we turn to the blessing.
                How far soever we have sought to satisfy with the fair false joys of earth that
                    longing for happiness which is in truth but the thirst of our souls for the
                    living GOD, in such measure we have most surely suffered
                    as the sole result of our vain endeavours, and shall suffer haply to the end;
                    but for all the pain and bitter disappointment we thus have gathered to
                    ourselves, there is in this day of Palms a gift of tender healing, since He in these first hours of Holy Week
                    takes on Himself an anguish similar in kind, differing only in its sinlessness,
                    so that the comfort wherewith He and He alone can comfort us is given in perfect
                    sympathy. Does not all seem to promise joy and brightness for Him that day when
                    the eager voices cry, “Hosanna,” and hail Him as their Beloved,
                    their King for Whom no flowers can be too fair, no honour done too great? and
                    yet He knew even then how their love would turn to hatred, their welcome to
                    rejection; how they would nail unto the cruel Cross the Feet for which they made
                    the way soft with their very garments, and flood His last hours with bitterness
                    Whom they had called blessed in His coming. Therefore does He enter this day
                    with full comprehension into the secret bitterness that fills our hearts when
                    all that seemed most fair, most true, most dear, turns in our grasp to ashes,
                    and the sympathy of JESUS, unlike the barren compassions
                    of this world, has power to replace the pain which draws it forth with an
                    undying joy; for He knows that we suffer only because we sought our happiness
                    apart from our one essential Bliss, and even with tears He offers Himself to
                    fill our souls with rapture. “If thou
                        hadst known, even thou, thy Peace.”
                Let us not pass, then, from the day of Palms without having taken into our lives
                    the warning to know ourselves, to prove whether we are His in sincerity and
                    truth and possess Him in unspeakable blessedness as our only and eternal
                    Peace.
                And now the first day of the Holy Week is over, “Jesus departed and hid
                        Himself.”
                There can be no certainty where the LORD spent that first
                    night of His Passion, for while some old writers have supposed that He went to
                    Bethany, there are others, nearer to that awful time, who believed that He
                    resorted to no house of friends, but that each night of the five which preceded
                    the final sacrifice, was passed by Him within that Garden of Gethsemane where He
                    was at the last to receive from His FATHER'S Hands the
                    cup of agony.¹
                ¹ It is evident that
                    Judas knew where to find his Master when he came to deliver Him up to His
                    enemies, and this was believed in earlier times to give a strong proof that all
                    the nights of Holy Week were spent by the LORD on the
                    Mount of Olives.
            
            
            
                Monday in Holy Week.
                THE sun has risen again, still fair in its springtide dawn, but the
                    Shadow deepens on the second day of the mournful seven. Gone is all semblance
                    even of triumph and of welcome, none hail the Victim now as King or call Him
                    blessed, no triumphal palms are borne before Him or garments spread beneath His
                    weary Feet as in a royal progress. Slowly He returns, spent with vigil and
                    fasting, from His mysterious solitude to the city of His doom, and none are by
                    His side save the few that only for a little time as yet, are faithful to their
                    dying LORD. But we who have entered into the Shadow of
                    the Holy Week are with Him there, and we stand on the wayside path as He draws
                    near. He has seen that which afar off seems a fair and fruitful tree, making a
                        pleasant show with its bright green leaves,
                    and rearing its stately head to heaven as if eager to catch the light and dew
                    which fall from thence. Surely with such rich and fertile seeming it is ready to
                    minister to Him with all its growth, with all its capabilities? He comes
                    hungering to find fruit thereon,—but there is none.
                He by Whom all things were made had breathed into it the breath of life, which
                    enabled it to bring forth all those waving branches with their weight of
                    leaves,—but beneath that outward appearance of homage to its Creator all is
                    hollow and barren. Not there shall His hunger for the offerings of living love
                    be stayed,—not there shall He see the travail of His soul and be satisfied. This
                    day in our ear sounds again the mournful sentence, “Let no fruit grow on
                        thee henceforward for ever.” Well may we shudder as we hear it, for
                    it may be that in the fair deceptive tree with its goodly show of specious
                    beauty we see the type of our own selves, in the golden prime of life when the
                    careless days of youth are past, and the world allures us with its most subtle
                    charm through the praise and goodwill of our fellow?men. Has not the secret
                    desire to win their admiration and their love
                    been the true motive power that has decked our lives with fairest deeds and
                    robed us in an external garb of all that is most lovely and of good report? May
                    not the very homage and devotion offered to our only LORD
                    have been made sweet to us by the human approbation and applause it has won us
                    in this lower world? Pleasant to the eye has our daily existence seemed perhaps,
                    rich in acts of charity and religious fervour, but shall the LORD find beneath the fruits of the Spirit which He seeks?
                Love—pure and unreserved for Himself alone.
                Joy—sought and found in communion with Him only.
                Peace—such as apart from Him can have no existence.
                Longsuffering—practised in likeness of Him Who forgave His
                    murderers.
                Gentleness—learned from Him Who when He was reviled, reviled not
                    again.
                Goodness—inspired by union with Him Who alone is good.
                Faith—by secret knowledge of Him in Whom unseen His own believe.
                Meekness—won at His Feet Who trod the lowest paths for our poor
                    sake.
                
                Temperance—because in Him to do our FATHER'S
                    will is all we ask or seek.
                Has He found these fruits of a vital union with Himself when He came to us
                    hungering for proofs of our sure eternal blessedness? or is it so with us,
                    despite our fair show in the flesh, that He may justly say even now,
                        “Behold, I come seeking fruit on this fig?tree, and find none .... cut
                        it down, why cumbereth it the ground?”
                If our unreal service has hitherto provoked this dreadful sentence, yet in the
                    merciful permission to pass once more beneath the Shadow of this Holy Week we
                    hear the voice of Divine Compassion saying, “I will let it alone this year
                        also, and dig about it ... and if it bear fruit, well,—if not, after that
                        shall it be cut down.” Blessed indeed is the renewed gift of these
                    days of our visitation, for is there one amongst us who has not at some time of
                    insidious temptation loved the praise of men, more than the acceptance of a true
                    service by Him Whose unprofitable servants we, at the best, must ever be? Yet a
                    sterner warning against human respect and unreality is given now as we follow
                    Him within the gates of the temple to which He
                    passes on, the consecrated House of GOD. There we behold
                    Him the meek and patient LORD, suddenly manifesting
                    Himself awful and severe in His righteous indignation, as He casts out all
                    earthly treasures from the sacred place which the Eternal FATHER had chosen as the habitation of His Spirit. Surely heinous
                    indeed must have been the sin which provoked the wrath of the Lamb.
                    He Who under cruelest persecution does not strive or cry, Who as a sheep before
                    her shearers is dumb in presence of His murderers, yet now with relentless
                    sternness denounces those who have made that house of prayer a den of thieves.
                    It is our Judge Who speaks. He looks now into our spirit, the temple of the
                        HOLY GHOST which we should have held for Him,
                    immaculate, His dwelling?place undefiled, unshared, whence the pure offering
                    should have risen up continually of a faithful service—an entire surrender of
                    the whole being unto Him our only LORD and Love. What if
                    like that temple of old He sees in the sanctuary of our souls but a den of
                    thieves, of earthly desires and hopes which have stolen away from Him our best
                    affections?—what ambitions and vanities, what love of the world and of self,—what secret sins and unchastened longings
                    may have robbed Him of all the true devotion of our hearts! If it be so, shall
                    we not beseech Him this day to cast out from the temple of our spirit all
                    things, be they what they may, which mar the exclusive supremacy of His reign
                    within us? Dear and precious may be to us the treasures which we have suffered
                    to invade His chosen shrine,—so dear that for their continuance in our
                    possession, rather than for a closer union with Himself, may have ever arisen
                    the petitions that gave it the semblance of a house of prayer, and bitter may be
                    to us the anguish of their rending away from our clinging hold. Yet even with
                    the sharpest scourge of pain let us call on Him to drive them from us. Then
                    shall the special consolation of this second day be ours,—for it is to the soul
                    that flings away all its earthly idols to give itself to Him alone that He
                    utters the blessed words, “I will not leave you comfortless, I will come
                        to you.” JESUS Whom we and all men for ever
                    seek unconsciously, will come to us and make His abode within the cleansed
                    sanctuary of our spirit, to be our Life and Love, our everlasting joy.
                
                Upon that very day when He thus manifested His claim to the unreserved allegiance
                    of the human race He knew that His enemies were taking counsel to kill Him,—and
                    as it was then so is it now. While those who do desire, however feebly, to
                    follow Him in life and death are beseeching Him beneath the shadow of His
                    Passion to make their spirits meet for His abode, outside in the garish sunlight
                    of the world men are conspiring to kill Him in the souls of His people, and to
                    brand with the infamy of falsehood His faith and Name. Surely of them as of us
                    that Divine One thought in His undying pity, when the evening being now come He
                    departed without the city to the solitude where through all these prophetic
                    nights, He gazed into the depths of that anguish of sacrifice which could alone
                    redeem the world's iniquity.
            
            
            
                Tuesday in Holy Week.
                THE shadow deepens yet more on the third of the mournful Passion days.
                    The LORD returns from His lonely watch, to speak for the
                    last time within His desecrated Temple to the people who hated Him, and for whom
                    He was about to die; and as He journeys towards the city the first sight that
                    meets His sorrowful gaze is the fig?tree withered away. It is the emblem of His
                    dread prerogative of justice and of punishment. He Whose very Being is essential
                    Love, Who yearns to gather all that have ever drawn the breath of human life
                    into His compassionate arms, is yet of purer eyes than to behold iniquity, and
                    even from His tender lips must fall the awful sentence, “Depart, ye
                        cursed.”
                Dark lies the shadow then upon the bare 
                        dis?
                        distorted
                     torted branches of the withered tree,
                    type of the judgment to come, and thence He passes on to utter His final
                    warnings within the sacred walls where never again shall His Divine Voice be
                    heard in human accents.
                Even as the LORD was visibly present then within His
                    chosen temple, so is He present now within His Church on earth, and as then He
                    spoke, so does He speak to us now in the commemoration of this sacred week.—With
                    the eight Beatitudes His ministry on earth began,—by those heavenly words of
                    blessing breathed as it were from the very heart of the love of GOD, He ushered in the teaching of the gospel of peace; but now with
                    the shadow round Him of that voluntary Death, in which so many for whom it was
                    consummated would fail to see their only life, He closes His public testimony,
                    by pronouncing the eight awful woes on all self?seeking and hypocrisy.
                Woe unto us if by an example of worldliness or an unworthy use of
                    the gift of influence, we hinder the efforts of those who are aiming at a height
                    we would not have them reach, because we have not sought ourselves to attain
                    unto it.
                
                Woe unto us if we have sought the accomplishment of our own desires
                    at the expense of others and have loved ourselves more even than GOD'S own poor, while unto their FATHER and
                    ours we cease not to turn in unfelt prayers.
                Woe unto us if we seek to proselytize to our narrow views, those who
                    hold the Truth in ways distasteful to our vanity or our party spirit,—if we will
                    not have them live severely while we dwell in luxury, or turn from a world that
                    is dear unto ourselves, or seek to serve their GOD save
                    at our bidding and in our measure, because we would have them careless and
                    frivolous even as we are.
                Woe unto us if we exalt external forms of religion above the secret
                    heart?service of Him Whose indwelling Presence in our souls, alone gives them
                    value or reality.
                Woe unto us if we have made our Christianity to consist in trifling
                    observances, and clung with vehemence and angry defiance to matters of detail,
                    while we neglect utterly the true worship of GOD in
                    mercy, judgment, and faith.
                Woe unto us if while we use all Sacramental ordinances for the
                    cleansing of our souls in the sight of GOD and man, we
                    yet fail to purge them inwardly of the evil
                    thoughts and passions that defile them in secret.
                Woe unto us if we appear to be white and fair in all the beauty of
                    holiness, while by a subtle hypocrisy, scarce known to ourselves, we are
                    concealing many a hidden sin that lies corrupting within us.
                Woe unto us if while we adorn the House of GOD and show all reverence to the memory of His departed saints, we
                    yet persecute those of His living people who differ from us, or despise and
                    neglect them because they are humble and of low estate.
                Thus it was that throughout the whole of that last day of the LORD'S ministry on earth, the burden of His teaching was ever
                    against that hidden deep?rooted self?love which fatally destroys the Love of
                        GOD within us, however specious an appearance of it
                    we may wear even in our own eyes.
                When the eight Woes had been pronounced, falling dread and solemn on the air as
                    the strokes of a funeral bell sounding the knell of criminals approaching to
                    their doom, then did the LORD begin to speak to His
                    people in parables. Each one while it foreshadowed His own swift coming death for our redemption, told also
                    how we and many in the generations yet to come would crucify Him anew, by giving
                    to the world and to our chosen idols the love and fealty He bought to be His own
                    at the cost of His priceless Sacrifice. “This is the Heir, come, let us
                        kill Him, and the inheritance shall be ours.”
                We long to enjoy the sweets of life rather than to labour in His vineyard through
                    heat and cold, in pain and thirst and hunger,—and it may be that we have acted
                    as though we had said, “Let us kill Him in our hearts, that the inheritance of
                    this fair world and all its joys may yet be ours.”
                “Then said He to His servants, The marriage is ready.” We have seen
                    how He has spread a table for us in the wilderness of this world, with the
                    Eucharistic Feast whereby we are bound to Him in the power of that resurrection
                    life which shall merge into eternal union, when we drink with Him of the new
                    chalice at the marriage supper of the Lamb; but have we come to the foretaste,
                    at His earthly altar, of the hour when He shall raise us up from the dead,
                    without having probed the secret depths of our
                    spirits, only perhaps to find them yet so filled with human hopes and desires
                    that there is no room for Him to take up His abode within us in sacramental
                    fulness?
                “Then shall the kingdom of Heaven be likened into ten virgins, which took
                        their lamps, and went forth to meet the Bridegroom.”
                We have ostensibly been going forth to meet Him from that first hour when His
                    name was given us in the baptismal waters, and through all the years that we
                    have lived since then, we have borne our lamps with their flickering uncertain
                    light before the world's eyes, but how shall it be with us when the midnight cry
                    is heard of His dear coming? Did not the LORD say
                    centuries before He came to us on earth, that He would only accept the offering
                    of “oil for the light and for sweet incense,” which is given
                    willingly with the heart? and if ours has been but a scanty
                    grudging supply, surely the oil will fail and the Light fade out in our lamp
                    before the brightness of His unveiled Presence.
                “A certain nobleman .... called his ten servants, and delivered them ten
                        pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come.”
                So too of the gifts which He entrusted to us
                    each one according to our several ability, that we should use them for the
                    increase of His kingdom upon earth, and the winning of many helpless souls to
                    enter with us into His eternal joy. What if we have held aloof from His erring
                    wanderers, the ignorant, the poor, the sinful, wrapt in our own pride and
                    selfishness,—preserving His gifts intact, but all unfruitful, so that when the
                    hour comes to render them back we can but come before Him alone with empty hands
                    and say, “There Thou hast that is Thine.”
                Finally, the teaching of that sad day culminates in the most awful words that
                    ever sounded from the Divine lips on earth,—the words truly in which are summed
                    up all promise of undying joy, all warning of unutterable pain: the beatitudes
                    of His first utterances contending again with the woes of His last, in the
                    ineffable summons, “Come, ye blessed,” and the dreadful sentence,
                        “Depart, ye cursed.”
                “When Jesus had finished all these sayings, He went out of the
                        temple.” And well may we believe that the only faint gleam of light
                    which relieved the dark shadow of that day for Him, was in the crystal purity of
                    that clear shining love which enabled the poor
                    widow to offer to her GOD not of her slender substance
                    only, but all that she had, “even all her living.”
                If the warning of this day against self?seeking in its most subtle forms cuts
                    deep into our very heart, striking at the root of our most hidden desires, yet
                    is there a consolation waiting on our acceptance of that searching pain, which
                    transcends in its unspeakable sweetness, far as the heavens above the earth, the
                    worst agony we can endure,—for when the soul is emptied of self, then, and then
                    alone, will CHRIST come to abide within it in fulness of
                    possession, and the bitter pangs of renunciation give place to rapturous peace,
                    when we hear stealing on our consciousness the words that seem to echo from the
                    very Throne of GOD, “Lo, I am with you
                        always.”
            
            
            
                Wednesday in Holy Week.
                DEEPER than at any time, except on the awful hours of sacrifice, the
                    Shadow of the Holy Week falls on the fourth morning, for it is the day of the
                    betrayal, of darkest treachery.
                Weak, erring, sinful as we are, we yet are striving to follow the LORD in the mournful path of His Passion. We have loved Him, we do
                    love Him feebly, imperfectly, no doubt, yet still in such measure that it seems
                    to us impossible we can need any warning against the hideous crime which makes
                    this day more accursed than any other that has ever been branded by the enmity
                    of man to GOD. Yet He Who said of His very torturers,
                    when with loud sounding strokes they drove the cruel nails into His Hands and
                    Feet, “they know not what they do,” could well foresee far reaching
                    to the end of time the manifold unfaithfulness
                    whereby He yet should be daily, hourly betrayed in hidden acts by those who
                    believe themselves to be indeed His own.
                Most sorrowful of all the Passion days surely was this to Him, bitterer, sadder
                    even than the terrible death day, for into the consummation of the Cross there
                    entered the blessed foreknowledge of the salvation which it purchased for all
                    that would receive it of the erring human race, but there is not so much as a
                    thought of comfort to relieve the blackness of treachery which stamps with
                    infamy the pitiless day of the betrayal. Well might it be said of it, “Let
                        that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above, neither let the
                        light shine upon it.” Calmly, gently, the LORD
                    had announced its coming to His disciples without a word of reproach, or of the
                    bitter anguish it would bring to Him Whose very Being was perfect love. He had
                    closed His public teaching upon earth with the one word “Watch,”
                    the solemn emphatic word that reverberates through all the vanished centuries on
                    every living soul with its concentrated warning. Then without comment He
                    divulged the secret act of Judas.
                
                “And it came to pass when Jesus had finished all these sayings, He said
                        unto His disciples, Ye know that after two days is the feast of the
                        Passover, and the Son of Man is betrayed,—and at night He went out and abode
                        in the mount that is called the mount of Olives.”
                “He abode in the mount.” No other record is given of the period
                    which elapsed between His last farewell to the glorious temple, so soon like the
                    Sacred Body of which it was the type, to be delivered into the hands of ruthless
                    men, and that divine hour when He was to celebrate the Holy Mysteries for the
                    first time in the upper room. It seems plain, therefore, that throughout the
                    veiled day of His betrayal, when no sign of His Presence on earth is given to us
                    in His Holy Word, He abode in the mount, bearing on His Heart before the Just
                    Eternal GOD the multitudes that should betray Him. Not
                    for Judas only did the Son of Man agonize beneath the Shadow of His Passion
                    during the long hours when He knew that the archtraitor was taking counsel with
                    His enemies against the Anointed of the LORD, goaded on
                    by the unseen accuser of the brethren, although to Him Who loves each individual
                    soul as if none other existed in the universe,
                    the hideous treachery of that one false follower must in truth have pierced His
                    divine heart with an intolerable pain.
                “It is not an open enemy that hath done Me this dishonour, for these I
                        could have borne it, but it was even thou My companion, Mine own familiar
                        friend.”
                Borne by the sighing wind to the murmuring trees around Him, He must in His
                    omniscience have heard the voice that had so often spoken to Him in words of
                    love and reverence now whispering to His foes, “What will ye give me, and
                        I will deliver Him unto you?”
                He had willed so fully to assume our human nature, that He might be able to share
                    in every sinless pang which we can feel, and thus the cruel defection of a
                    trusted friend must have brought such a bitterness of pain as some amongst us
                    may have known perhaps only too well, while far beyond our comprehension must
                    have been the awful suffering wrought on the SON of GOD by His foreknowledge of the traitor's doom. All this,
                    we dare not doubt,—this anguish in its twofold form, was multiplied that day in
                    the fathomless spirit of the LORD of all, by every thought, and word, and deed of
                    unfaithfulness whereby He knew He should ever be betrayed in the ages yet to
                    come.
                As we watch by Him there beneath the ever?deepening shadow, does not our awakened
                    conscience sting us with keenest pang as it reveals to us the many occasions
                    when by a subtle scarce conscious treachery we may have ourselves betrayed Him?
                    The thirty pieces of silver which tempted the traitor to his hateful crime have
                    appeared to us in guise of all these fair allurements of the world which cannot
                    be enjoyed consistently with unreserved devotion to the Crucified LORD. Whenever our own pleasure or the claims of our
                    earthly affections have stood between us and our Redeemer, we have betrayed Him,
                    but these are forms of treachery which are easily detected; there are others of
                    a far more specious nature whereby we may too surely have done so more
                    completely.
                In these days when pride of intellect, of scientific progress, and of freedom
                    have all alike arrayed themselves against the LORD and
                    His written Word, are we not often tempted to shrink from drawing down contempt
                        upon ourselves by upholding openly the old
                    faiths which so called enlightenment has trampled under foot? It is easy to say
                    to ourselves that we are too weak to argue with stronger minds, that it is
                    better to be silent even when our Master is traduced, than to give feeble and
                    uncertain support to His holy truth; but let us examine our souls in sight of
                    Him Whose mournful eyes in these sad hours looked down the vista of the future
                    to its uttermost limit, and noted every shade of unfaithfulness which should mar
                    the union of His people with Himself, and we shall surely detect that not
                    humility but human respect held us back from speaking boldly in the name of
                        CHRIST whenever His Faith has in any way been
                    assailed in our presence. May we not also find too probably that we have tacitly
                    connived at forms of error whether in doctrine or practice, under the spurious
                    guise of a charity that seeks to veil the faults of others? Then, indeed, do we
                    betray the Son of Man with a kiss, as also when we use our influence as one of
                    His professed followers for any selfish purpose of our own.
                In other and in simpler ways it may be that we betray Him daily. We are vowed to
                        His unflinching service by His Sacraments
                    and our own will, and wheresoever we have failed in perseverance or in sternest
                    duty, we may in our measure have betrayed Him every hour. Truly the dread that
                    in these and many other ways we may be self?deceiving traitors to our beloved
                        LORD, causes the shadow of this day to lie with a
                    dense and heavy gloom upon our spirits. Yet is the consolation which the Divine
                    One offers to us all, if only we faint and fail not, through this our little day
                    of earthly life, more dear, more entrancing in its promises than human thought
                    can ever compass, since far beyond the confines of the grave that once enclosed
                    Him, far above the mighty stone which the angels rolled away from His deserted
                    tomb, from out the Beatific Vision of the Resurrection Life, the Voice of Him
                    Who was dead and is alive sounds like the fall of living waters in the glorious
                    words, “Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of
                        life.”
            
            
            
                Maundy Thursday.
                AND now the day of love has dawned, so perfectly the day consecrated to
                    the Divine Eternal Charity by its special teaching, and by the Institution of
                    the Sacrament of love, that it might almost seem to us as if no Shadow could dim
                    the Heavenly aspect of those hours, wherein the LORD
                    showed forth by words and deeds ineffable His undying tenderness for His
                    followers, and for all who should in the ages to come, believe on Him through
                    their word.
                “Having loved His own which were in the world, He loved them to the
                        end.”
                What pain, what grief or earthly trial could outlive these words, if indeed we
                    had in no way forfeited our claim to hold them in everlasting possession as our inalienable inheritance? But fair
                    and gracious as is the Light, which Love would fain have shed on this fifth
                    Passion day, it is obscured and well nigh blotted out by the deep appalling
                    shadow that steals up from the dark garden of the Agony, and teaches us that
                    this manifestation of Infinite Love could only be given to us through the
                    ministry of infinite pain.
                “The Master saith, My time is at hand.”
                The earlier hours of this day, the last on which He should see the sun go down in
                    His earthly life, are veiled in the same mystery as that which shrouded Him
                    throughout the day of His betrayal from all human knowledge; doubtless because
                    they were spent in secret communion with the FATHER; but,
                        “when the even was come He entered into the large upper room with His
                        disciples,” and thither let us follow Him beneath the shadow of the
                    most blessed, and yet most awful night that ever fell upon the world of His
                    creation.
                Of all that took place between the entrance of the LORD
                    into the guest?chamber, and His departure from Gethsemane, as the willing
                    captive of the foes who had been stricken to the ground by the Majesty of His Presence, it were too presumptuous even to touch
                    in this the faintest, feeblest expression of the thoughts that must be with us
                    on this momentous night. We dare only to fall down with silent adoration before
                    the unsearchable riches of the Divine Eucharist, by which, from that hour every
                    living soul that wills to be redeemed of CHRIST, may be
                    linked to Him in everlasting union. Is it not enough to show us all, what the
                    Sacrament of His Body and Blood must be to our salvation, that He who never so
                    much as breathed a wish for Himself, should now with almost passionate force
                    proclaim, how with desire had He desired to eat this Passover
                    before He suffered, that through the Divine Feast into which it was merged, the
                    destroying angel, in the last dread day might see His Blood sprinkled on the
                    souls of His people, and pass them by when he goes forth to slay His enemies
                    before Him.
                So too, we leave untouched that wondrous sacramental act, whereby our Master
                    showed that He, to Whom has been given power over all flesh, that He might give
                    them eternal life, can yet only enable us to have part in Him by washing us in
                    His own Blood; not once alone in the washing of
                    regeneration, but daily, hourly, so that the dust of this corrupting world which
                    clings to our feet as we tread its tortuous ways, may be ever and ever cleansed
                    away. In like manner inspired by His Divine example, He bids us prove that we
                    have truly part in Him, by serving Him humbly and thankfully in the persons of
                    His poorer brethren on earth. While we thus shrink however from dwelling on the
                    great acts of this solemn night, there are some of the sacred words spoken then,
                    when He delivered to the world that which may be called the Gospel of the Agony,
                    that are to us in this rebellious age, so especially the words of Eternal life,
                    that they seem to stand out from all surrounding gloom as though written in
                    letters of light, and to them we gladly turn. The first of those Divine
                    utterances which echo with undying power from that upper room upon our listening
                    spirits, is that which stamps this day with the dazzling yet terrible effulgence
                    of His Love and its claim to our obedience in the Church His Body.
                “A new commandment give I unto you—that ye love one another as I have loved
                        you.”
                As He has loved us! we are to love one another as He has loved us! we with our self?seeking
                    desires, our idolatrous hearts, our violent passions, our strong antipathies, we
                    are to love as He loved,—the Incarnate GOD, Who in
                    ceaseless suffering laid down not only His life for His friends, but also, all
                    the glory that He had with the Eternal FATHER before the
                    worlds were.
                How awful a command! high as the Heavens in its exalted comprehensiveness, yet
                    not impossible even for us when joined in Sacramental union with Him our LORD, for before He uttered that commandment He instituted
                    the Sacred mysteries, whereby we can so be sharers in His own Divine nature as
                    to make it possible for us to obey it.
                He proclaims the unearthly mandate which gives its name to the fifth Passion day,
                    He creates the Sacrament of essential union with Himself whereby alone it may be
                    kept, and then, as if in His unutterable mercy to lure us to its fulfilment by
                    the most powerful motive, which could sway the souls of His people, He says unto
                    us,
                “If ye love Me keep My commandments,”—and this last above all, the
                    last before He suffered.
                So far then as we have not loved one another,
                    even as He has loved us, we have proved that we have not loved Him, the dying
                        LORD about to offer Himself in torments
                    inconceivable, a Sacrifice for us! The obligation laid upon us therefore by the
                    very nature of this day, is the deliberate searching scrutiny of our hearts and
                    lives, to drag out of their inmost depths, every evidence of the extent to which
                    we have failed to love our brethren as CHRIST has loved
                    us. What a terrible light will that probing of conscience fling upon our own
                    share, in causing the mysterious agony, which bowed the LORD of Heaven to the very earth that night, beneath the weight of
                    all the world's iniquity! Have we ever so much as given Him any real proof that
                    we love Him, by the perfect keeping of this new, this last commandment? if no
                    other sin of ours were laid upon Him, save those which we have heaped together
                    by its nonfulfilment, we have no need to wonder at the great drops of Blood
                    wrung from Him by His untold anguish.
                Truly the warning of this day against uncharitableness in all the manifold
                    meanings of the term, is sharper than a two?edged sword when it pierces into our
                    self?deceiving hearts, and opens up to us the
                    depths of our failure to love the brethren and in them the Elder Brother of the
                    family of man.
                Yet this the saddest evening that ever cast its shadow on all time, brings to us
                    through the words spoken by the dying SAVIOUR,
                    consolations more priceless in their value to our fainting struggling souls than
                    any that can come to us on brightest festivals.
                We are groping here amid the unsolved problems of this bewildering world, met at
                    every turn by the inexplicable mystery of evil, by the permitted suffering of
                    the innocent and helpless, by the inscrutable conditions of our own being, while
                    all around us, sound the mocking voices of this age of so called progress,
                    telling us that our faith is false, our hopes are vain, that CHRIST is not risen from the dead, and we are of all men most
                    miserable: and surely the whole mental torture of this chaos of doubt and
                    difficulty was foreseen by Him, when, having proclaimed His Deity by bidding us
                    believe in Him even as we believe in GOD, and told us
                    that He was about to prepare a place where we, in unchanged identity, should
                    live for ever in deathless realms, He turned and gave to all future generations
                        the calm assurance, “If it were not
                        so I would have told you.”
                He, the living Truth, would not have deceived us. He would not have left us one
                    moment in a false hope, Who gave Himself to save us from despair. If He were not
                        GOD, Incarnate for our sakes, He would have told us.
                    If there were no life beyond the grave, no future of immortality, no place for
                    any of the human race in the eternal Mansions of His FATHER, He would have told us. He did not endure an earthly
                    existence of toil and humiliation, and a voluntary death of torture, to mock
                    with baseless fables, those for whom He died. If for us there awaited only
                    annihilation in the dust of mortal corruption He would have told us. In His
                    infinite compassion and tenderness He bids us not doubt Him, though all the
                    world conspire to blot out His Name from the universe of His creation, for He
                    would have told us if He had not Himself been that Eternal Life which He
                    promised to us in the face of His Own Death.
                “Because I live, ye shall live also.” Then—then when that
                    everlasting day has dawned, we shall know that He is in the FATHER, and we in Him. This strong consolation wherein we may take refuge, is not however the only one
                    afforded to us on that evening. As if still looking forward to the blasts of
                    atheism and false philosophy that should in future ages sweep over this
                    insensate world, the LORD gave us a promise of internal
                    evidence which no outward argument or proof can so much as touch in any sense,
                    for He declares to all who strive to keep His commandments, that He will
                    manifest Himself to them.
                “He that hath My commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth Me,
                        and I will love him, and will manifest Myself to him.”
                They shall see and know Him in their inmost consciousness in such a wondrous
                    certainty of present intercourse, that the negations of science or agnosticism
                    must fall powerless on the spirit wherein He dwells, like the mad waves beating
                    in vain round an impregnable rock.
                Thus it is, that the secret of the LORD is with them that
                    fear Him, and that with no vain boast they can affirm to sceptics and cavillers,
                    that they know Him in Whom they have believed, and thus too is the
                    ineffable promise of that evening of the agony fulfilled—
                “Ye shall know that I am in My Father, and ye in Me, and I in
                    you.”
                
                Nor is this all; it would seem as if in these last hours when JESUS still submitted to the conditions of our mortal nature, He had
                    gauged all the sources of pain or fear which might assail us when we too should
                    face the mystery of death. Even when a sure knowledge of the LORD leaves us no power to doubt that there is an eternal life
                    beyond it, we cannot escape a haunting dread of the unknown conditions of that
                    mysterious future state. The spirit quails before the thought of plunging alone
                    into an unseen immensity, like a fluttering leaf flung out upon the mighty
                    blast, and whirled away through darkness none know whither; and was it not to
                    meet those very terrors that the Dying Voice of the Divine One spoke those words
                    of unutterable blessedness and peace, when He declared, He would come to receive
                    us to Himself—
                “That where I am, there ye may be also?”
                He willed not to reveal to us in any degree the nature of our being in that
                    further life, but enough—enough beyond all power of language, to express its
                    depths of consolation, is the certainty bequeathed to us in His hour of agony,
                    that howsoever, wheresoever we are, we shall be with Him. It is His
                    Will, what room can there ever be again for
                    doubt or trembling in face of death?
                “Father, I will that those whom Thou has given Me, be with Me where I
                        am.”
                These were among the words spoken by the LORD, when having
                    lifted up His Eyes to Heaven, He entered into that last communion with the
                    Eternal FATHER, of which the awful sanctity seems
                    profaned by any approach in human language, therefore we dare not touch any
                    further on what has been vouchsafed to our knowledge of that supreme hour; only
                    let us say, “May GOD be praised for ever,” that He has
                    allowed the record of these unearthly utterances to remain with us, for the
                    Divinity of the Godhead is so stamped upon them, that they alone have had power
                    to smite with irresistible conviction, souls that else had remained for ever
                    lost in lowest depths of unbelief. Yet although we may not speak of that
                    wondrous Intercession, let us remember, whatever be our trials, our temptations,
                    our struggles, our failures, our almost despair, that He prayed then for us, for
                    us poor fainting sinners that should believe on Him through His written
                    Evangel.
                And now the rayless shadow of that last 
                        Pas?
                        Passion
                     sion evening so deepens around the
                    Sacred Victim, that we seem unable to dwell any longer on these heavenly
                    consolations, for Judas has gone out to do that which he had to do quickly
                        and—“it was night!” words of terrible significance!
                It was night indeed, profound, unfathomable for the traitor and for all who to
                    the end of time depart in any sense from the Light of the world; and it was
                    night for Him, the Lamb of GOD, Whom all creation shall
                    behold hereafter as the sole Light of Eternity, when “He went forth over
                        the brook Cedron, where was a garden into the which He entered.”
                Gethsemane! how can we venture to rest the eyes of mental vision on that
                    mysterious scene when in superhuman agony the LORD of all
                    wrestled with Eternal Justice for the redemption of the human race?
                “My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.” Not the hosts of
                    heaven who watched in silence there around their King, thus made a spectacle to
                    angels and to men, nor any who have ever lived, could sound the depths of
                    suffering expressed in these gentle, pathetic words, for on that Innocent Head
                    the Almighty Hand has bound the sins of all
                    humanity, and laid Him prostrate beneath their weight on the dust of this
                    defiled earth, while the Divine Heart breaks under the awful sense of the FATHER'S wrath for all the transgressions of the guilty
                    race whom He, the only Sinless, represented there.
                “Thy rebuke hath broken My Heart.”
                It is not for us to dwell in open words on a theme so sacred, thankful only may
                    we be if we are permitted in this Holy Week to lie under the Shadow of dark
                    Gethsemane in mute abasement, and make that dread vigil a stern preparation for
                    the hour of our own death, since then for the first time were heard the accents
                    of that sad reproach, which must re?echo again on the soul of every one
                    departing from an existence which has not been truly given to GOD.
                “Could ye not watch with Me one hour?” This little hour of life! how
                    shall we bear it fainting in dissolution, if through all our years of strength
                    and power we have left Him unheeded in His anguish for our sins, and taken our
                    pleasure in self?willed ease or cold indifference?
                “Sleep on now,” the sleep of death, till we see Him coming with
                    clouds to judge the world. It was night, night
                    black with a darkness that may be felt, for the traitor has come and given to
                    the Master, Who was about to die for him, the kiss, which represents all the
                    evil that ever has been done in the name of CHRIST, all
                    human passions indulged under a profession of religion, all unreal, hollow
                    service simulating the perfect way of life.
                “Friend, wherefore art thou come?”
                The Divine LORD called Judas still by that dear title,
                    hoping, perhaps, for the traitor's own sake to rouse some lingering spark of
                    affection in his heart; but we know how Judas delivered Him to His murderers,
                    and bade them hold Him fast.
                “Ye are My friends,” He had said to His disciples with yet deeper,
                    tenderer meaning: His friends, His own whom He had loved and did love even to
                    the end, and now in His hour of utmost peril, of agony, of certain swift?coming
                    death—
                “They all forsook Him and fled.”
                In the entire desolation of that moment there fell upon Him Who has borne our
                    griefs and carried our sorrows, a bitterness of misery into which we with our
                    clinging affections can enter with special
                    comprehension, and which in our measure we may ourselves have known in stern
                    reality.
                If in our life's journey we have experienced the cruel piercing of our hand by
                    the support on which we leant in fondest confidence, if change and forgetfulness
                    have passed on the love or the friendship that was dearest to us on earth, if
                    our hearts have been wrung by faithlessness where most we trusted, by desertion
                    where we would have clung most strongly, if now we are alone and desolate who
                    could once have said with joy to those we cherished most, “Ye are my
                    friends,”—then let us rejoice, for in no other way could we have won so fully
                    the sympathy of Him Who more than any that ever walked this earth has loved, and
                    more than any other that ever lived has been forsaken,—“and it was
                        night.”
            
            
            
                Good Friday.
                GOOD indeed! though on this supreme day there hangs the shadow of the
                    great darkness which shrouded from all human eyes the death of the Creator; good
                    with the eternal blessing of a world's salvation. What would have been the
                    destiny of our unhappy race if this day had never dawned to make our fallen
                    earth the altar of an all?sufficient Sacrifice? This incomplete, unsatisfactory
                    life, with its delusive joys and bitter pains, must then have been our only
                    hope, and death but an abyss of unfathomable gloom, ready to engulf us and those
                    we love in the depths of some unknown despair. Good, then, indeed the day of
                    suffering supreme, from whence sprang everlasting joy, the day when death became
                    a Sacrament of Life Eternal.
                
                To us who dare still in the Shadow of the Passion to follow CHRIST as He is taken from prison and from judgment, there seems no
                    interval between this day and that which saw the dust of sad Gethsemane wet with
                    the anguish?dew which sin in its utmost penalty wrung from the only One Who
                    never yielded to its power, for each hour of that dreadful night is marked with
                    its own special pain, and could we be content to rest in oblivion of it all,
                    when for us it was endured? even if slumber overtake us through the weakness of
                    the flesh, it is a night when we may say with truth, “I sleep, but my
                        heart waketh,” for it cannot be that any one of its mournful watches
                    should find us forgetting Him, Who doubtless in these commemorative hours, looks
                    on us so often faithless, as once He looked on Peter and melted his very soul in
                    anguish of repentance.
                Slowly at length that memorable dawn appears, but how can we bear to contemplate
                    the cruel hour that follows when “by His stripes we are healed,”
                    when we “beheld Him, stricken, smitten of God and afflicted, wounded for
                        our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, and the chastisement of our
                        peace is upon Him?”
                
                Dearly purchased peace! last legacy of our one Friend. To that peace may we cling
                    though all the world should seek to rend it from us. May that peace be ours when
                    the fair scenes of earth shall flash away for ever from our dying eyes, and
                    through the far reaches of the deathless realms, may we pass on to Him Who is
                    Himself our very and eternal Peace.
                Not yet this day, however, must we lift up our heads in that dear hope, though
                    our Redemption is drawing nigh, for still in the intense commemoration of the
                    Holy Week the LORD is being led as a Lamb to the
                    slaughter that He might pour out His soul unto death as an offering for sin, and
                    so make intercession for the transgressors.
                We may indeed dwell in thought with adoring gratitude on the many forms of
                    suffering which bowed that Kingly Head beneath the crown of thorns, while He
                    yielded Himself through the long bitter hours to the malice of the torturers,
                    but we may not analyze the terrible details. Too often has the Sacrifice, whose
                    unfathomable depths no human soul can comprehend, been profaned by well?meant
                    efforts to bring it within the limits of poor
                    earthly language, but the reverence of utter silence alone befits us when
                    treading now in His wearied, fainting steps in the last stage of His remembered
                    Passion, we pass onward with Him whither He goes bearing His Cross.
                “Weep not for Me, weep for yourselves.”
                To us and to all the human race till time shall be no longer was that injunction
                    given, for JESUS knew that the guilt of those who
                    inflicted on Him the utmost pangs of physical suffering, was light indeed to
                    that incurred by all who through their own unholiness should crucify Him to
                    themselves afresh, and put Him to an open shame. His murderers did it ignorantly
                    in unbelief, but how often in the full blaze of the Gospel light, and especially
                    in these latter days, men have denied the LORD that
                    bought them, while even those who call themselves by His name reject Him
                    secretly for some idol that enslaves their fancy, saying, “Not this Man,
                        but Barabbas.”
                Well for us if this day we can so weep for ourselves in our regretted past, that
                    in future we may never have cause to weep for Him, crucified anew by our own
                    cruel hands.
                
                “I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto Me.“
                The hour has come marked out in its indestructible significance from the eternity
                    wherein it was foredoomed, and in which it shall for ever be remembered; and we
                    are drawn, as He said, to that uplifted Sacrifice, the pledge and embodiment of
                    love undying, never more surely to abandon Him Who in that tremendous hour
                    offered Himself up through the eternal Spirit without spot to GOD. The blackness of night has fallen upon Him and us, who waiting
                    on Him in spiritual realization, have reached this central hour in all the
                    history of the universe. Even nature veils her face in her high noontide from
                    the sight of GOD by man deserted, and a Man by GOD forsaken in His last extremity.
                “My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?”
                That terrible cry, laden with the inconceivable misery, which must have been ours
                    through ceaseless cycles of existence if the Incarnate SON had never lived on earth and died to bring us back to the Bosom
                    of the FATHER, teaches us in so far as even thus we can
                    comprehend it, what would have been the eternal desolation of our deathless souls in final exile from their GOD.
                So long as the ages of this world's probation still endure, the echo of that
                    mysterious cry will ascend to the throne of Immaculate Justice, till the last
                    redeemed spirit has been won from the desert where GOD is
                    not, to behold Him in His glory, and to enter into the joy of his LORD.
                The reverent darkness still broods over the shuddering earth, and we in spirit
                    cast ourselves beneath the pierced Feet to fix our whole heart, and mind, and
                    strength on Him Who hangs there bearing our sins in His own body on the tree.
                    Yet not only in heart?wrung gratitude and love must we lie there, while through
                    the portentous gloom His dying Voice is heard to breathe the ineffable words
                    which tell how He prays for His executioners, how He thirsts for our salvation,
                    how He sanctifies all pure human affections by His care for His holy mother. We
                    too have a sacrifice to offer, a crucifixion to accomplish. Those three hours of
                    His last sufferings, “Who took away the hand?writing that was against us,
                        and nailed it to His Cross,” must be the concentration of that daily
                    dying unto sin to which we were bound when we
                    put on CHRIST in the waters of baptism. We have been face
                    to face with all that is evil in ourselves through the weeks of Lenten
                    preparation for this hour, and now upon the Cross of our Redeemer we are called
                    to crucify utterly and for ever the whole body of sin in whatsoever form it
                    separates us from the sinless LORD; all cherished idols,
                    all earthly hopes and dreams that hold us back from GOD,
                    our very being, in truth, must be there transfixed in resolute self?surrender,
                    till every thought, and word, and feeling is brought into captivity to the
                    obedience of CHRIST.
                The complete and final crucifixion of our will nailed to the will of GOD with the pierced Hands and Feet of JESUS, is the special claim made upon the soul by this the last
                    Passion day, and it is the most terrible of all the warnings of the Holy Week.
                    There can be no painless crucifixion. It may be that our very hearts must break
                    in yielding up that which has been too absorbing or too dear. Yet even then when
                    we are stretched as it were with CHRIST upon the rack of
                    pain there is for us a consolation of most heavenly sweetness, if with all our
                    longing souls we too can say, “Lord, remember me
                    when Thou comest to Thy kingdom,” for then may we, even we, hope to
                    be with Him one day in Paradise.
                “Consummatum est,”—it is finished!
                    finished the suffering and grief of JESUS, finished the
                    sacrifice to omnipotent Justice, finished the world's salvation.
                The portentous darkness is slowly lifted from the earth, and the pallid twilight
                    shows the Divine One silent and still in death. JESUS is
                    taken down from that now powerless Cross of pain and laid within His quiet
                    grave, and already the peace which He bequeathed to us a His dying gift falls on
                    our fainting souls, a peace pure and passionless, such as those alone can know
                    whose natural self, slain by their own deliberate purpose, lies dead and buried
                    in the Redeemer's tomb.
            
            
            
                Easter Eve.
                DIVINE unearthly day! dim indeed with the shadow of the valley of death,
                    but instinct with a marvellous significance which draws our spirits into a
                    strange consciousness of the realms of the departed.
                “This day shalt thou be with Me in Paradise.”
                It almost seems to us on this day of heavenly rest, typical of the intermediate
                    state, as if the words spoken to the penitent malefactor and fraught to him
                    indeed with eternal blessedness, might yet in a limited sense be true of all who
                    have sought to follow their beloved Master closely through the stages of His
                    sacred Passion. For now dead with Him to all earthly desire, seeking JESUS alone in time and in eternity, we seem to rise from
                    beneath His Cross where we too have offered up
                    ourselves, and follow Him in spirit along the trackless way to the restful
                    abodes of Hades. Turning from all human sights and sounds, we yield ourselves to
                    the mysterious perception of the unseen state, which seems to be the peculiar
                    grace accorded to those who keep this day in union with their departed LORD.
                A supernatural stillness appears to be all around us with a cool soft air, such
                    as breathes amid summer heat from some dark cavern deep among the rocks, while
                    our whole spiritual intelligence thrills with intense realization of the
                    Presence of our Incarnate GOD in the home of the faithful
                    dead. We seem in some strange sense conscious that He is there, pervading the
                    whole dim quiet atmosphere; His Hands extended even as on the Cross in universal
                    benediction, while at His Feet are resting calm and still the vast multitudes of
                    our brethren gone before, drawn by His coming through the solemn shades to
                    gather at that one Centre of all hope and joy. There amid the unnumbered throngs
                    we seem to gain a veiled glimpse of beloved faces, vanished long since in
                    mournful days from our longing eyes, and now, seeking for us no more, intent on Him alone for Whom they wait, their
                    Resurrection and their Life.
                With Him, with them, and all who have departed in His faith and fear, we may
                    indeed abide this one calm day in Paradise, but since not yet for us the tyranny
                    of life is overpast, it may not all be spent in peaceful contemplation of the
                    rest that remains for the people of GOD.
                We have yet a task to finish upon earth, we have to labour that we may indeed
                    enter into that rest, lest in our bitter struggle with the enemies of GOD within us and without, we should after all come short
                    of it. There is laid on us yet the stern necessity of becoming, in life, that
                    which in death we would desire to be, for it seems plain that no new
                    regeneration takes place within the undying soul when the mortal body is given
                    to the dust; that which it has been in tendencies and desire upon earth, it
                    still must be, when it goes out into the unknown realm where its eternal destiny
                    shall be accomplished.
                The lessons of the Holy Week which have taught us how to live, are now gathered
                    up and concentrated in the teaching of this sacred Eve which instructs us how to
                    die, not in words, but by the stupendous facts commemorated in it, which convey to us the certainty of those divine
                    Truths that have taken the sting from death, and robbed the grave of its
                    victory. That grave need have no terrors for us now, since the Incarnate Love
                    Himself has slept within its narrow walls, that He might render all the
                    conditions of our nature pure and harmless in death as well as in life; and this
                    mysterious day should be the seal set on our immutable purpose, so to live in
                    Him and with Him here, that we may pass through the grave and gate of death to
                    be with Him for ever. The end of our years on earth may seem to us yet far off,
                    and till it come, the troubled anxious interval is like that night of toil and
                    sorrow, spent by the disciples on the stormy Tiberian sea, before the glorious
                    dawn which brought them at last the blissful sight of their own Risen LORD.
                We too are out upon the restless waves on life's dark sea, struggling with the
                    baffling winds of error, and temptation, and toiling to reach the land of
                    everlasting joy, and ever as we hurry onwards, the world grows drearier, and our
                    spirits fainter, in their loneliness and gloom,—the scenes of youth and riper
                    years recede into the distance, and the voices we have loved, die away from us to be heard no more, the lights of earth go
                    out one by one, and the whelming waters rise higher and higher, as we drift we
                    know not whither, helpless and alone.
                The night—the dark unknown night whose mystery no living eye has ever pierced, is
                    closing round us, yet we need not shrink or fear, for all will be well
                    eternally, if only it can be said of each one of us, that when the morn was
                    come—
                “JESUS STOOD UPON THE SHORE.”
            
            J. MASTERS and Co., Printers. Albion Buildings, Bartholomew Close.
        
    
