
     ----CITATION----
        Steel, Flora Annie Webster (1847-1929). The Potter’s Thumb, Volume 3. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 275 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (3-May-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7133
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE POTTER'S THUMB
                    A Novel
                
                BY FLORA ANNIE STEEL AUTHOR OF ‘MISS STUART'S
                    LEGACY,’ ETC.
                IN THREE VOLUMES
                VOL. III.
                
                    LONDON 
                    WILLIAM HEINEMANN 
                
                1894
                [All rights reserved]
            
            
            
                Edinburgh: T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to Her Majesty
            
        
        
        
            
            THE POTTER'S THUMB
            
                CHAPTER XIX
                AZIZAN was waiting for darkness, like many another woman in India;
                    waiting for the veil of night to destroy the veil of man's contriving. Not so
                    much because she dreaded to show her face in the daylight, but because it suited
                    her to keep up the mystery of her appearance. Waiting, however, for the last
                    time; since once her work of warning was done there need be no more concealment,
                    no more playing like a cat over a mouse with the Palace folk. Once that was
                    done, she meant to forget caution and kill some of them; for she felt that her
                    own death was nigh, and revenge would sweeten the end of life. As she sat, her
                    back against the wall, her knees drawn up to her chin, Azizan had no very
                    distinct plans for that revenge. First of all the Ayôdhya pot must be taken
                        from its hiding?place in the stair of the
                    old tower. That, with its secret bribe of jewels, it would prove to the sahib
                    that there was truth in the tale she had gathered during her nightly wanderings
                    as a ghost about Hodinuggur. When that was done, she would be free in some of
                    those nightly wanderings to kill the Diwan or his son, the man who killed her
                    mother. Perhaps she might be able to kill both, and yet have some strength left
                    for Chândni—Chândni who had told her so many lies. For there was a fire now in
                    Azizan's light eyes, which quite accounted for the consideration which the
                    courtesan had shown the girl when, more than once, Chândni had awakened to find
                    them looking at her. Of course, by and by a stop must be put to this
                    masquerading through the village, but at present it would be unsafe, when so
                    much depended on good luck, and thus Azizan had hitherto been unmolested.
                    Indeed, Chândni herself had taken malicious pleasure in countenancing current
                    tales of the return of the potter's dead daughter; and once when Khush?hâl Beg,
                    during his son's absence, had deemed it well to single her out for favour, she
                    had sent the hoary old sinner back to his
                    swinging cradle like a quaking jelly from abject fear of what he might meet by
                    the way. Still it was only when she was on the roof with the old Diwan that she
                    ventured to speak in whispers of a time when this mad girl should be taught her
                    own impotence for good or evil.
                So in the meantime, the freedom from interruption, and the dread which the mere
                    thought of her existence roused in the simple village folk, conspired to
                    increase Azizan's faith in her own supernatural power, and as she sat in the
                    growing dusk no doubt of her own success assailed her; for the chota sahib had
                    returned—during the night. At least so said the old man, who, with all his
                    craziness, was to be trusted. Therefore, in less than an hour, he would know
                    all, since the day was dying down quickly; smothered in a hot haze?like smoke.
                    There was not a shadow anywhere; only a dull darkness growing momentarily as the
                    dull darkness had grown upon her mind day by day. For all that she had the
                    power; the potter might mould the clay, the palace folk might plot and plan, but
                    she, the woman with the evil eye, was stronger than they!
                ‘Aziz! Oh! thou art there still, Heaven be
                    praised!’ The cry roused her from a sort of dream to find the old man beside
                    her, breathless as from running, his mild face, seen dimly in the darkness, full
                    of piteous entreaty. ‘Go not from me this night, oh Heart's?joy! Leave me not
                    again in the storm!’
                ‘The storm! What storm, poor fool?’ she asked indifferently.
                He laid his trembling hand on her arm. ‘Listen! Thou canst hear the noise of many
                    waters. They came before, so the fathers sang, and made a new world. Down yonder
                    at the palace, where thou goest, 'twill run like the race of a river, and the
                    stones of the old wall where thou liest will be crumbling into it. Go not there
                    to?night, oh, Light of mine Eyes! It is safe here on the heights.’
                ‘There is no water,’ she answered, with a short laugh, ‘there will be none; save
                    in the canal. The sahib will see to that now he hath returned.’
                ‘How can he see when he is dead—’
                ‘Dead,’ she echoed. ‘Bah! thou liest! He is not dead. There is no water, and
                    there is no death—’
                She broke off suddenly, silenced by his look as
                    he stood with one hand raised as if listening. In the breathless air a strange
                    whispering reached her ear, and like an arrow from a bow, she flew to the gap in
                    the palisade, whence she could see the dip between the ruins and the canal bank,
                    and beyond that silver streak again to the bungalow dotted down upon the level
                    plain.
                ‘Dohai! Dohai!’
                The Great Cry—the blind human cry of her race for justice burst from her
                    instinctively. The next moment found her bare?faced in the open on her way to
                    prove if the old man spoke truth in death also.
                ‘Azizan! go not! Leave not the House of Safety! It is the Flood of the Most High!
                    Go not, oh! go not!’
                His unavailing plea came back to him unanswered from the night which had fallen
                    suddenly, as the dust from below sprang electrically up to meet the dust above
                    and hide everything from sight. But through the thick veil that rush of water
                    rose louder and louder as the girl sped on her way. It was true what the old man
                    had said, and she had seen it. There was a river by the old palace. Was the other thing true also? Was the sahib dead?
                    Had they killed him? The darkness lightened a little as she ran over the bridge
                    so that she could see a great swirl of yellow water shooting past the piers not
                    three inches below the keystone of the arch. Lower down it had found the open
                    sluice?gates, hurled them from their foundations and carried them with it as it
                    burst through the embankment weakened by the new?made cuttings of the villagers,
                    and had raced in a mad river to fling itself against the mound of Hodinuggur,
                    tearing down yard after yard of crumbling sand as it turned abruptly from the
                    collision, to try conclusions by a flank movement. Azizan saw none of this;
                    nothing but the dim white arches where she had waited once before.
                ‘Sahib! Sahib!’
                No answer, and in her eagerness she crouched down at the closed door, tapping
                    softly.
                ‘Sahib! Sahib!’
                There was only a quarter?inch planking between them, that was all, for they had
                    left him as he fell till some other white?face should come to accept the
                    responsibility of interference. Yet it did the
                    work as effectually as all the barriers of custom and culture which had divided
                    them in life.
                ‘Sahib! Sahib!’
                Could it be true? It must be true that he was dead; otherwise he would surely
                    hear her cry!
                ‘Sahib! Sahib!’
                As she crouched she might have put out her hand and taken his, but for that
                    trivial quarter?inch of wood between them; but he did not hear. Because he was
                    dead? Perhaps, yet even in life he had not heard, he had not known. The light in
                    the potter's yard, lit by her passionate love and care, had only served to
                    arouse his contempt. Better darkness, he had thought, than such a light as
                    that.
                ‘Sahib! Sahib!’
                At last she rose and stumbled across to the servants' quarters, seeking the
                    certainty which she must gain somehow. A light glimmered behind the grass
                    palisades, sacred to her namesake's modesty, and from within came the eager yet
                    subdued tones of gossiping women. Azizan crept close, and crouching in on
                    herself held her breath to listen.
                
                ‘Lo! I content myself with goodwill towards all men,’ came the widow's voice
                    self?complacently. ‘Yet, O Motiya! wife of Ganesha the groom, I make bold to
                    aver that this is no more or less than a judgment on—’
                ‘What? Dost think it to be really the Flood of Destruction?’ broke in Motiya,
                    whimpering.
                ‘Ai pargul! Who cares for the water? It flows south, not
                    north; so we are safe. No! 'tis the sahib's death. Mayhap 'twill teach other
                    folks' relations not to be in such a hurry to thrust themselves into other
                    folks' service against the custom—’
                ‘But—’
                ‘Ai teri! wouldest deny my right—the widow's right?
                        Ai! meri adme, thy sahib is dead, and there is none to
                    see justice done and employ thy relations! Ai! meri dil murgya!
                        murgya!’
                As the renewed sense of her wrongs rose in the familiar wail, the women from
                    within joined in it dutifully. Without, the girl, with her hands clenched and
                    her wild eyes straining into the shadows, seemed to be caught and carried away
                    by it also, and her shrill voice echoed theirs instinctively.
                
                ‘Ai! meri sahib murgya. Ai! meri dil murgya! murgya!’
                The women, scared to death at the unexpected aid, stopped suddenly, and the young
                    voice rose alone.
                ‘Ai! meri dil murgya! murgya!’
                The sound of her own wailing brought home to her the truth, rousing her passion,
                    her grief, her anger, to madness; and in one swift desire for revenge she turned
                    and ran.
                ‘Meri sahib murgya!’
                The wail echoed over the wild swirl of the flood?water as she crossed the bridge
                    once more. It was trembling now before its doom as the water rose inch by inch.
                    And could that be rain? that large warm drop upon her hand, so large that it ran
                    down between her fingers? Another on her upturned face, blinding her. If those
                    were raindrops, and many of them came, it might, indeed, be the deluge of the
                    Most High. And if it were? Had not the end of all things come to her already?
                    Yet as she ran she looked curiously into the sky. Not a cloud was visible; only
                    an even haze of grey vapour, through which now
                    and again a great drop splashed down upon her, warm and soft.
                ‘Ai! meri sahib! meri sahib!’
                No more than a sob now; yet even that she hushed as the Mori gate showed black
                    before her. Should it be Chândni? No, not yet; but for Dalel and the hopes of
                    him, the woman would have cared nothing for water or no water. So she passed on
                    through the causeway. One or two villagers, hurrying, like her, through the
                    darkness, talking in scared whispers of the strange flood, fell back from her
                    path terrified. A knot of men in the bazaar huddled aside as she slipped by like
                    a shadow; even in the courtyard of the palace the watchmen, gathered round one
                    pipe for the comfort of companionship in such uncanny times, gave no more than
                    an uneasy glance at the half?seen figure which they did not care to
                    challenge.
                Should it be Khush?hâl Beg in his swinging cradle? He had betrayed her mother,
                    and the knife she carried was long enough to reach through the fat to his heart,
                    long enough to do the mischief, when held in reckless hands, even if aid came to
                    the unwieldy body. No! it should not be
                    Khush?hâl either. Let him wait a while since he had done little to harm the
                    sahib. The true quarry lay higher in the old man up yonder in his nest like a
                    bird of prey; seeing all things with his keen old eyes, plotting and planning
                    with his wise old brain. But for him, the others had not been; but for him the
                    sahib would have been alive, and now he was dead. Each step of the stairs as she
                    laboured up them seemed to need that cry of ‘dead! dead!’ to help her on her
                    way; and they left her breathless on the first platform of the roof, where those
                    huge drops of rain were falling in audible thuds upon the hard plaster. Faster
                    and faster. This was no rain. Something must have given way in the sky, and, as
                    the old man had said, it was ‘Tofhân Ehlâi.’ So much the
                    better for her purpose. In the arcades on either side faint figures glimmering
                    white in the shadows showed where some of the servants were sheltering. So much
                    the better, also, since she might find the old man alone; not that she cared for
                    that either, save in its greater assurance of success. He would not be in the
                    pavilions at this time, but in the room to the
                    north end of the tower, of which she had heard the women speak. The room with
                    the big jutting balcony whence you could see north, east, and west, everything
                    except Hodinuggur itself.
                By this time the raindrops, falling faster and faster, had become a sheet of
                    water streaming down straight with such curious force that she staggered under
                    it. A little sun?baked fireplace against which she stumbled dissolved to sheer
                    mud ere she had recovered her balance, and a loosened brick on the last step
                    upwards rolled down, beaten from its place ere her foot touched it. It was the
                        ‘Tofhân Elâhi’ indeed, though every moment the sky grew
                    lighter and she could now see her way clearly.
                ‘Meri sahib murgya! murgya!’
                She kept the wild fire glowing in heart and eyes by the murmur, until through an
                    open door she saw what she sought—an old man seated at a chess?table, still as a
                    statue. With a cry she darted forward, snatching at the knife in her girdle,
                    then paused abruptly. Where was the hurry? he could not move. So with a half
                    laugh of exultation she turned back
                    deliberately to bolt the door—a strong door, as befitted one giving on the
                    favourite sleeping?place of despotism. It would need time to force an entry
                    there; more time than she would need to do her work. Meanwhile she must look at
                    this arbiter of her fate ever since she was born—this tyrant whom she had never
                    seen. What! was that all? that wreck of a man, with his head upon his breast?
                    but as she came nearer, the light, such as it was, from the wide?arched balcony,
                    aided by a cresset smoking in a niche, showed her something of the youth in his
                    eyes. Perhaps it showed him something of the age in hers, for the Diwan paused
                    in his first haughty challenge, then began again.
                ‘Hast come to frighten me, as thou frightenest the villagers, oh! Azizan,
                    daughter of the potter's daughter?’ he asked coldly. He was defenceless, and he
                    knew it, save for craft of the brain.
                ‘Nay! I have come to kill thee, Zubr?ul?Zamân, Diwan of Hodinuggur,’ she replied;
                    ‘to kill thee as thou hast killed the sahib.’
                A sound which might have been a laugh reached her as she took a step nearer, 
                        brand?
                        brandishing
                     ishing the knife; perhaps it was that
                    which made her pause again in her turn; for laughter was hardly what she
                    expected.
                ‘I did not kill the sahib, fool. He killed himself for love of the mem sahib: the
                    fair mem who took the Ayôdhya pot.’
                The girl fell back the step she had taken, and the hand bearing the knife went up
                    to her forehead in a gesture matching her sharp cry of pain. The truth struck
                    home; yet she caught at denial desperately.
                ‘Thou liest! She did not take it. I took it once—twice. I have the pearls—the
                    Hodinuggur pearls. I—I—not she.’
                One of those curious spasms of life came to the wreck of a man, as it turned to
                    look at the girl more closely.
                ‘So! Thou also hast brains. 'Tis the woman's yôg¹ now?a?days. My son, and my son's son,
                    have none. Thou shouldst have been my granddaughter, Azizan, had I but known.
                    Thou mayest be now.’
                His granddaughter! Of course! she had suspected so all her life, had known it to
                    be so for months, yet she had never realised the ¹ Reign. fact till now; and an odd, inexplicable sense
                    of kindred rose up in her against her will.
                ‘I shall kill thee, no matter who thou art,’ she cried quickly.
                ‘Wherefore? What harm have I done to thee, Azizan? 'Twould have suited me better
                    had the sahib fancied thy face. Thou hadst thy chance.’
                Something in her shrank back abashed before the naked truth of the old man's
                    words. She had had her chance, according to her world, and she had failed. She
                    had failed utterly; and yet— Something else in her, strange, incomprehensible,
                    clamoured against the verdict, and the deadly weariness, the passionate apathy
                    she had so often felt before came over her. The knife dropped to her side, and
                    half mechanically she looked out through the arches of the balcony to where the
                    red?brick bungalow should stand. There was nothing to be seen but sheets of
                    water streaming from above, while from below came a rush and a roar. Suddenly as
                    she listened came another sound; a pit?pat pat?pit on the floor in
                    half a dozen places. The rain had conquered the thick?domed roof.
                
                ‘It is “Tofhân Elâhi,” ’ she said, and even as
                    she spoke a babel of voices rose at the closed door.
                ‘Open! open! The river saps the foundation. Ari bhai! is he
                    dead, that he hath no fear? Beat it down!—Oh, Diwan sahib!—Oh! servant, who hath
                    closed the door?—Open! open!—Nay! without a smith 'tis hopeless—And I tarry
                    not!—Listen! there goes more of the wall—Open, fools! open!’
                Amid the roar and rush, the vain blows and shouting, the old man's eyes were on
                    Azizan's, not so much in appeal as in command. He could not move and his faded
                    voice would never reach through the clamour, so his only safety lay in her
                    obedience. But she shook her head, then crouched down—as if to wait till they
                    should once more be alone—in her favourite attitude, her back against the wall,
                    her knees drawn up to her chin, the knife still clasped in her hand ready for
                    use. A louder roar came from without, a rattle as of bricks, mingled with cries
                    of caution and alarm. Then gradually the blows and voices dwindled away from the
                    ceaseless clamour of the rain and the intermittent rumblings of falling masonry, as the smallest crack widened beneath
                    the pressure to a breach until, bit by bit, the solid walls seemed to melt
                    away.
                ‘Why didst thou not open the door, fool?’ The words in the greater silence were
                    just audible to the girl.
                ‘Because I did not choose.’
                Again the odd sound like a laugh came from that bent figure.
                ‘The woman's reason. Why didst thou not choose, Azizan?’
                There was no anger, scarcely a trace of anxiety even, in his tone. He was no
                    novice to the ways of women, and the girl's face told him that his chance of
                    life was almost gone. What must be must, and death came to all; to the mad fool
                    in her turn. The sombre fire of her eyes met his sullenly; but she made no
                    answer, save to lay the knife down quietly on the sill of the arch against which
                    she leant. The steel rang clear upon the hard red sandstone.
                The old Diwan's wrinkled hand hovered for a moment over the pieces on the board,
                    then fell back upon his knees. So they sat staring at each other silently in the
                    bow of the 
                        bal?
                        balcony
                     cony. There was nothing more to be
                    said. She had chosen; why, she knew not. And as the clamour of the rain and the
                    rush of the river rose higher and higher, Zubr?ul?Zamân's head sank upon his
                    breast with the old formula—
                ‘Queen's mate; the game is done.’
                The woman's reason, or unreason, had conquered the Strength of the World. But
                    that was no new thing to the Diwan's wisdom.
                But to the people outside in the open, huddling together under the pitiless
                    downpour for safety's sake, it was more or less of an amusement to wonder how
                    long the old tower would hold out against the mad stream sapping at its
                    foundations. Not long; for already the ruined wall had gone, disclosing a
                    portion of the secret stair, where Zainub, the old duenna, lay parched up almost
                    to a mummy. A hideous sight, no doubt, had there been light enough to see it;
                    but there was not, and the refugees upon the higher ground could discern nothing
                    but the block of the old tower and the swirling water below. A faint light came
                    from the balcony of the room where the Diwan was known to be; and, as they watched it, people speculated how the
                    door came to be fastened. Perhaps it had swung?to, perhaps— Well, he must be
                    dead, or would soon be dead since rescue was impossible; and, after all, he had
                    lived his time. Khush?hâl had been saved from his swinging cradle, and then
                    there was Dalel away up at Simla. Rulers enough for a poor country?side, if God
                    spared it from the ‘Tofhân Elân;’ and if not, why then the
                    old man was at least better off than they, exposed as they were to the elements.
                    Far better; both he and the outcasts in their straw huts, which would hurt no
                    one even if they fell. So the first in the land was as the last, and the last
                    first. ‘Sobhan ullah!’
                As the rain slackened the night grew darker, until even the block of the tower
                    ceased to show against the sky, and the little company of watchers could only
                    hear the thunder of its fall.
                ‘God rest him,’ muttered a peasant, muffled into a formless bundle in his
                    blanket. ‘He was a hard master, and the new one may be harder still. There will
                    be a good crop anyway.’
                
                And down on the very edge of the boiling stream, when the rain ceased, a light
                    went twinkling up and down, up and down. It was the potter looking for his dead
                    daughter as the débris of the old wall,
                    beneath which she had been buried sixteen years before, crumbled away bit by bit
                    before the furious stream.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XX
                THE dawn broke upon a new world as far as Hodinuggur was concerned.
                    Where the desert had stretched thirsty and dry, lay a shoreless sea. Where the
                    streak of silver had split the round horizon into halves, the double line of the
                    canal banks looked like twin paths leading to some world beyond the waste of
                    waters. They steered straight out of sight on either side, almost unbroken save
                    for the great gap where the sluice?gate had stood. There the stream still swept
                    sideways to circle round the island of Hodinuggur, which bore, like an ark, its
                    company of refugees from the surrounding levels; a little company which
                    straightway, taking advantage of the coming sun, began to wring out its wet
                    garments and spread them to dry, until a general air of washing?day reduced the
                    tragedy of tile past night to the commonplace. And after all, what had happened? An old woman or two had been
                    drowned, the Diwan and his tower swept away. But the world held too many old
                    women and more than enough of nobles. For the rest, it had not been the Flood of
                    the Most High; and though Death came to all in the end, and the loneliness of it
                    must be dreary, still it was somehow more terrifying to die in batches,
                    wholesale.
                So, clothed in their white, new?washed robes like the elect, they went down after
                    a time in companies to see the extent of damage done to their belongings, and
                    test how far it was possible to wade through the water towards the village
                    homestead or two which rose above the flood. Canal?wards, of course, passage was
                    barred, would be barred for days until the stream ceased flowing or a boat was
                    brought. So the horseman whom they could see picking his way flounderingly along
                    the northern bank might be the only survivor of the big world beyond, and they
                    be none the wiser—for the time. It was Dan Fitzgerald who, after an enforced
                    shelter at the half?way village, was wondering who could have taken the
                    responsibility of anticipating the telegram he carried in his pocket by opening the sluice?gates, and so, in
                    all probability saving the big Sunowlie embankment farther down. For the sluice
                    had been opened; that was evident to his experience at once, since without the
                    lead of the current to cut, the flood would have swept on to do its worst
                    elsewhere. Well! whoever had done it, be he watchman or Diwan, deserved
                    something at the hands of the Department, and be the past record a bad one or
                    not, this act should have its reward—its just reward—if he could compass it.
                Ten minutes after, he had driven the chattering servant from the room, and
                    grief?stricken, yet convinced into a sort of calm acceptance of the inevitable,
                    had lifted the poor lad's body tenderly to the bed. He scarcely even thought of
                    a reason for the tragedy; perhaps there was none, for Dan in his rough and ready
                    life had seen such a thing before; had known the useless search for some
                    adequate cause. And was there not cause enough here for a sudden loss of
                    balance? That race down from Paradise to Purgatory!—the intolerable journey—the
                    horrible home?coming; and then the cursed bottle he had left. The remembrance sent his whole mind into
                    useless regrets. If he had only ridden faster, if somehow he could have been
                    there in time to prevent the loneliness, the awful desolation of it all! for he
                    had been through such loneliness himself, and knew what it had meant to him.
                    Perhaps, taking his own excitability as a standard, he over?estimated the effect
                    on George's nature. At any rate, as he stooped mechanically to pick up the
                    revolver round which the boy's dead hand had still been closed, he felt that,
                    given the necessity for sudden return, the rest might be inferred. And then,
                    beside the revolver he saw the open locket, with Gwen's smiling face staring up
                    at him. Gwen! Great God! what did it mean? His own locket, of
                    course, and yet—he sat down at the table white as death, looking first at the
                    pretty face, then at the still figure on the bed, now decently shrouded from the
                    glaring light of day. And by degrees the colour returned to his cheek. No! it
                    could not be so. She was not cruel, only careless; and ah! what a grief this
                    would be to her! Besides, George was not one to put a life?long regret of that
                    sort into a friend's life. So pondering, he
                    realised that among other incidents of the home?coming had been that of learning
                    who his sweetheart really was. That, then, did not happen at Simla, so that
                    could not have been the cause of the lad's sudden return.
                Why, then, had he come? The new lock and keys lying on the table, gave him a
                    clew, and his quick wits suggested danger to the gates. Then it came to him in a
                    flash confusedly, almost irrationally, that it had been done for his sake and
                    hers, and he was on his knees by the bed in a minute.
                ‘Oh! George! George! why did you do it?’
                So with the answering silence came a decision, impulsive, yet immutable. Such
                    blame as could be taken he would take. No one should know or dream of failure.
                    No one should ever say—‘Ah, poor fellow, he shot himself; must have been
                    something wrong, you know.’ Rapidly he counted the costs, the possibility of
                    silence. Hodinuggur, separated from him by an impassable stream, could not be
                    taken into account, so he must accept the risk there. It would not be much, if
                    the servants' tale was true, that they had only
                    discovered their master's death when the storm began, and had done no more than
                    send word to the palace. No one, then, could have seen the body save those four
                    or five servants, who loved their master, and worshipped rupees, and, above all,
                    desired peace and quiet, and not the dangerous rakings up of the past which
                    always followed on the advent of the police. Then for the Department itself.
                    What he had said in his ignorance was true. Whether George had opened the sluice
                    when, as the servants said, he went out in the middle of the day, or whether the
                    palace folk had done it, the Department, in either case, owed the opener a debt
                    of gratitude. If the latter, the Moghuls would be glad to keep silence; if the
                    former, even if they set up a claim for compensation for damage, they would have
                    been due so much had he, Dan, arrived in time to carry out his orders; thus no
                    injustice would be done.
                So half an hour afterwards, one of the servants started along the path to the
                    outer world with a telegram to headquarters, and that evening, when the flood
                    had subsided a little, Dan chose out the driest spot he could find in the sandy compound, and read the Church service
                    over his friend's body. No one, he told himself, should know the truth; except
                    some day perhaps, Gwen, when she came there as his wife. Then he would tell her,
                    the pity, the needlessness of it all; and yet the needlessness had this virtue
                    in it, that it made concealment possible; for the flood had swept away the
                    error, if error there had been.
                The telegram reached Colonel Tweedie next morning, among many more telling of
                    disaster and death along the line of the great canal. Yet none was more pitiful
                    than this one which ran thus—
                
                    ‘Opening of sluice?gate, as ordered, saved Sunowlie embankment, but palace
                        injured. George Keene died yesterday of cholera. Very prevalent here.
                        Details by post.’
                
                ‘Dear! dear!’ fussed the Colonel. ‘How very sad! What a blow to poor Mrs.
                    Boynton. She is so tenderhearted, and really, she was almost unnecessarily
                    interested in that boy.’
                They all thought of her; even Lewis Gordon, as, yielding to that odd desire to
                    see for oneself which besets us all when bad news comes by telegram, he sat looking at the flimsy message of
                    evil; yet his first words were of Rose.
                ‘Your daughter will feel it also, sir; feel it very much I'm afraid.’ Then he
                    paused, to resume in more ordinary tones. ‘I had, I think, better start at once,
                    sir. I can report all along the line, and wire if your presence seems necessary.
                    I hardly think it will be, and it is useless inconveniencing yourself for
                    nothing.’
                Colonel Tweedie bridled. ‘I am not accustomed to consider my own convenience as
                    against the public service’—he was beginning pompously, when Lewis cut him
                    short.
                ‘I'm afraid I wasn't thinking so much of you, sir, as of Miss Tweedie. This will
                    be a great blow to her.’ He thought so honestly, and as he jolted down the hill
                    in a tonga half an hour afterwards he told himself he was glad to have escaped
                    the necessity for seeing her grief, even while he was conscious of a curiosity
                    to know how she would take the news. There was no such difficulty in imagining
                    Gwen's behaviour. He could almost see the pretty pathetic face keeping back its
                    tears, and hear the soft voice saying with a
                    little thrill in it that George was the nicest, dearest boy she had ever met,
                    and that she would never forget his kindness and goodness to her—never!
                    never!
                As he thought of this his expression was not pleasant, for Gwen had, in his
                    opinion, done her level best to turn the lad's head, and so must surely know
                    that she was talking bunkum. A man would know it; though perhaps it was not fair
                    to judge a woman by a man's standard of truth, and Gwen, doubtless, was as
                    genuine as she knew how to be; as genuine, anyhow, as Rose Tweedie, with her
                    pretensions of utter indifference to all sentiment. Well, poor girl! she was
                    face to face with realities now, for she had certainly cared a good deal for
                    George, even to the extent of trying to keep him from Gwen's wiles. Poor George!
                    a fine young fellow, who, for one thing, had been saved a bad heartache.
                He had intended passing on as quickly as possible to Hodinuggur, but being
                    delayed by the necessity for settling endless requisitions for repairs, had
                    barely reached Rajpore ere Dan Fitzgerald returned, reporting that there was no
                    reason for him to go out. Permanent repair was
                    impossible till the rains should be over, as every lesser flood must run down
                    the channel cut out for it by this deluge, and everything to ensure the further
                    safety of the palace had been done. Barring the Diwan's tower, there had not
                    after all been much damage, as the jewels and treasure in the vaults below had
                    been saved: besides, the bumper crops which would follow on the inundations
                    would more than compensate for any loss. There was, however, a certain anxiety
                    in Dan's face as he said this.
                ‘Well, even if they were to claim,’ replied Lewis complacently, ‘the saving of
                    the Sunowlie bank would be dirt cheap at a few thousands. It cost us over two
                    lakhs, and I was in an awful funk about it, thinking we must be too late. I
                    tried to intercept poor George with a wire, knowing he would take the order
                    quicker as he was already on the way.’
                Dan's whole soul leaped towards the possibility. ‘Then he got it after all. I was
                    wondering—’ he paused, angry at his own imprudence.
                ‘Wondering what?’ asked Lewis impatiently. ‘I was going to say I missed him, and
                    then I didn't see how you could possibly get
                    there in time. By the way, when did you get my wire?’
                ‘About an hour after you sent it off,’ said Dan uneasily. He did not care for
                    Lewis Gordon's sharp, practical eyes on these details.
                ‘That is, say, ten o'clock on the morning of the 6th, I suppose. Good riding,
                    indeed! And that reminds me. The report from the Rajah's people, which came
                    through your office, says that the water first ran through the cut about middle
                    day on the 6th. Manifestly impossible. You had hardly left Hodinuggur. It's a
                    trifle, of course, but you had better stamp on the inaccuracy and show you are
                    on the watch, or they will go on to cooking generally.’
                ‘Yes—,’ replied Dan slowly. This simple difficulty in concealing the discrepancy
                    of time had escaped him before; but he was fully alive to it now. Most men in
                    his place would have set the question aside, at all costs, for further
                    consideration, and risked the possible consequences of the evasion. But Dan's
                    mind was of finer temper; he could trust it to thrust home at any moment. This
                    is the true test of power, and it is only the second thoughts of the commonplace which are better than
                    their first. So he took advantage of the occasion calmly, knowing his man.
                ‘But they are right. I did not open the gates. I believe George did, but even of
                    that I am not sure. However, you shall judge for yourself. I don't ask for
                    confidence, of course. I haven't the right; but I expect you will give it all
                    the same.’ Then boldly, plainly, yet with one reservation, he told the tale of
                    what he knew and what he surmised. George had shot himself—of that there was no
                    doubt. The sluice had been opened, in his opinion, by treachery, of which
                    George, at Simla, had received some hint, and which he had arrived too late to
                    prevent; though this also was mysterious, since the gates had not been opened
                    till long after George's arrival. The guard at the sluice had been drowned or
                    had disappeared, and the new Diwan, Khush?hâl, professed pious ignorance. In
                    fact, only this much was certain, that the Sunowlie embankment had been saved,
                    that George had taken the responsibility on himself even to death, and that the
                    flood had made it possible to keep his memory from stain. For the sake of his friends alone, was not this
                    desirable? This hint, no more, he gave of the inner tragedy connected with the
                    locket. Yet as those two men sat looking at each other across the office?table
                    littered with papers, their thoughts, all unknown to each other, flew to the one
                    woman; but the memory brought tears to Dan's dark eyes, and left Lewis's hard as
                    the nether millstone in the conviction that Gwen was at least morally
                    responsible for George Keene's death. It came to him as a certainty, and yet a
                    contemptuous tolerance came with it. She had not meant, of course—women never
                    did—to play fast and loose with the boy's head. Yet she had done so. He had
                    spent too much money, he had been careless; honest, perhaps, though even that
                    might not be so, no one could tell. Why then should they try to find out now,
                    when it was all irrevocable, when no harm could come out of silence? And George
                    had been a good sort; too good for such an end; besides, even for Gwen's sake
                    silence was best. He felt very bitter against her, very sore; yet such things
                    must not be said about his future wife as might be said if the truth were really
                    known.
                
                ‘I suppose it had better remain as it is,’ he said at last, moodily. ‘Cholera has
                    served its turn in such a case before—one of the advantages of living in a land
                    of sudden death. Poor George! I daresay there was treachery.’
                Dan, shading his eyes with his clasped hands, was silent a moment. ‘If there was,
                    he had no part in it. I wonder if you remember a conversation in the balcony at
                    Hodinuggur about what a man would do—in such a case. “No, you wouldn't,
                        not unless you wanted to be thought guilty.” Do you remember saying
                    that, Gordon?’
                Lewis nodded; it was not a pleasant memory.
                ‘I can't tell you the whole. But I am convinced George shot himself to save me.
                    He knew,—what, perhaps, you don't—that I was engaged to a woman—’
                Gordon pulled some papers towards him impatiently, and took up a pen, as if to
                    end the subject.
                ‘I suppose it is always “cherchez la femme”;
                    yet it does not seem to me an agreeable factor in existence.’
                ‘Cherchez la femme!’ echoed Dan. ‘Why not? They are our mothers and sisters, our
                    sweethearts and wives, after all. And have you ever thought, Gordon, what it
                    must be like to look back over a lifetime, and see next to nothing that you
                    would rather have left undone? Or, if you're pious, to take a sort of pride in
                    pillorying yourself for a cross word or a tarradiddle? There isn't a man in a
                    million with that record, but half the women one meets—ay! half the women one
                    patronizes—have it. Perhaps it is small blame to anything but fate; still they
                    have it.’
                ‘Or think they have—which has the same effect! You remind me of a countryman of
                    yours, a doctor, I knew once. “The sex,” he said, “can't do wrong, and when it
                    does it's hysteria.” However, let us leave that poor lad to rest in peace; in a
                    way that is more worth than the happiness of any woman who ever was born. And,
                    look here, make the tale of reports complete, send them to me, and I'll consign
                    them, dates and all, to a pigeon?hole. That is the beauty of official mistakes;
                    you can pigeon?hole them and no one is the wiser, unless, indeed,
                    some personal motive crops up. But that is not likely. So far as I can see, it is to no one's interest to make a row—not
                    even if there is a woman at the bottom of it all.’
                There was a concentrated bitterness in his tone, due to no cynicism, but rather
                    to an intensity of pain; for if Rose Tweedie belonged by birth to that strange
                    latter?day feminine development which unconsciously sets passion aside both from
                    mind and emotion, and will none of it spiritually or physically, Lewis belonged
                    to that still larger class of men who have driven it from the mind: who say
                    openly that it is despicable; but that the world cannot get on without it; who
                    insist in a breath in its unworthiness and its necessity. Gwen, he said to
                    himself after Dan had gone, was very woman, capable of ruining any man in a week
                    if she chose, and then being sorrowfully surprised at the result. Still it would
                    be unkind to wound her needlessly by telling her that result; the more so
                    because she would certainly tell other people, and Rose Tweedie might break her
                    heart over it. Even if the pigeon?holed mistake were found out, they might get
                    up a fiction about the telegram having reached George after all. The 
                        com?
                        compensation
                     pensation might have to be given; but
                    even in that case he could see no need for raking up the mud since the claim
                    would be a just one.
                Nevertheless a week after, when he and Dan were once more seated opposite each
                    other at the office table, he felt vaguely uncomfortable. For a schedule of the
                    dead lad's debts lay between them ready for the Administrator?General, and that
                    showed an item of six thousand rupees borrowed on George's note of hand, backed
                    by some youngsters on the very day on which he had left Simla.
                ‘It was a first holiday, you know,’ said Dan regretfully. ‘And Hodinuggur is such
                    a hole. There were the races, you know, and—and—’
                ‘Cherchez la femme,’ quoted Lewis; ‘I don't
                    blame him, not a bit. But if there had been an inquiry, Fitzgerald?—’
                Dan shook his head and sighed fiercely. ‘Yes! I know. For all that, he was
                    straight—straight as a die! My only regret in keeping the thing dark is that
                    some one has to go scot?free.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXI
                A SHIVERING woman in one pannier; in the other, such things as a
                    breathless fugitive can gather together in one hurried half hour. Between them
                    the hump of a camel, a camel which every instant seems as if it must split into
                    halves as its long splay legs slither and slide in the mud that covers all
                    things.
                Such was the method of Chândni's flight from Hodinuggur. Not a comfortable one,
                    but under the circumstances necessary; nor was she altogether unprepared for
                    that necessity. People of her trade know what to expect when they are attached
                    to petty intriguing courts, where one ruler's meat is invariably the next
                    ruler's poison. Besides, in this case she had to reckon on Khush?hâl Beg's anger
                    at the repulse she had given him on more than one occasion; given him, of
                    course, with a view to future possibilities with his son Dalel, but that rather increased than diminished the
                    offence. And now her patron, old Zubr?ul?Zamân, was dead, Khush?hâl had supreme
                    power, and what was more, three pearls were amissing from the Hodinuggur
                    necklace; three pearls which could easily be traced home to her safe keeping,
                        and no further, if needs be. So, at the first hint of inquiry,
                    Chândni had deemed it wiser to seek the protection of the only man who knew
                    something—if not all—about the intrigue which had ended so strangely in
                    Providence setting aside the necessity for any intrigue at all. If Dalel chose
                    to remain at Simla, where, no doubt, he was amusing himself hugely, she would
                    not interfere with his amusements; that had never been her plan. She would only
                    resume her empire over his weak, worn?out wickedness. And yet the flight
                    entailed horrible discomfort. The splaying camel was to her what a bad passage
                    across the channel is to a fashionable lady, and as she clutched wildly at the
                    sides of the pannier, she decided that life was not long enough for a repetition
                    of such experience. If she returned to Hodinuggur at all, it must be in a
                    position which would ensure a different style
                    of locomotion. Even the night journey by rail, cooped up behind iron bars in the
                    wild?beast?cage?like compartment, labelled in three languages for ‘modest
                    women,’ was, in comparison, comfort itself. Huddled up decently into a shapeless
                    white bundle, she could at least think over the odd turn affairs had taken, and
                    make up her mind what had best be done. The first thing, of course, was to bring
                    Dalel to her heel. That ought not to be difficult, for though—the water having
                    been procured—he might, like his father, find it convenient to underrate her
                    services in the matter, she had one or two good cards to play in her adversary's
                    strong suits which might with care save the trick. At any rate they ought to
                    prevent any reckless disregard of her claims. First, they wanted the pearls
                    back, and now the Diwan was dead, she was the only person who could tell them
                    the ins and outs of that transaction. Next, they wanted payment of the heavy
                        douceur promised by the Rajah for good
                    offices in making it possible for the water to irrigate that basin of alluvial
                    soil to the south. But now the Diwan was dead, they would find difficulty in proving that anything had been
                    done—that the flood was not responsible for all, unless she chose to help them
                    with her evidence.
                For the rest, give her Dalel and a bottle of champagne to herself for one hour.
                    If in that space he did not come back, as he had done a dozen times before, to
                    her empire of evil, she would have none of him. He would be dead to all she had
                    to offer in fullest perfection. He would be beyond her influence, as it were,
                    and so, useless for her purpose. She was not going to marry a fool in order to
                    wear a veil and live with a lot of women.
                By this time two coolies were carrying her up the hill from Solon, in a thing
                    like a bird?cage slung on poles; so small, so square, that she had to sit in it
                    cross?legged and bolt upright. But though she could not sleep, even with the aid
                    of opium, and though the hillsides, after the first rush of the rains, were
                    clothed with tinted blossoms, and the winding valleys green as emeralds with
                    young rice, Chândni never parted the thick patchwork curtains shrouding her from
                    the public gaze, until the setting down of the dhooli warned her of an 
                        oppor?
                        opportunity
                     tunity for a gossip and a pipe. Then
                    her feet came over the side with a challenging clash of their silver bells, and
                    a quick stir run round the sleepy, sun?sodden stage where travellers, and
                    coolies, and sweetmeat?sellers lay huddled together in the shade. Even the
                    cowboy driving his cattle from the bales of fodder on their way up for the
                    sahib?logue's ponies, paused to look at her with a grin, while his beasts ate
                    on. The bees were flitting from flower to flower, a golden oriole flashed
                    through the green transparency of the walnut?trees, and below the branches the
                    great emerald hearts of the yam leaves outlined themselves against the sapphire
                    distance of the valley, which was divided from the sapphire distance of the sky
                    by the glittering pearly spikelets of the snowy range. Sapphires and pearls
                    echoed and re?echoed in ever?receding distance by the white clouds dividing one
                    sea of ether from another.
                But in all this world there was nothing worth a look, apparently, save Chândni,
                    the courtesan, swinging her silver anklets over the edge of a dhooli; to judge
                    at any rate by those human eyes.
                
                She did not go straight to her destination, but paused at a house in the bazaar
                    where such as she were all too welcome. There was never any mincing of words or
                    thoughts with Chândni. To one end she had been born a
                    Kanjari, and to this end she lived to the best of her
                    ability. So she paused to clothe herself in clean clear muslins, and hang great
                    garlands of tuberose and jasmine about the column of her massive throat; to
                    redden her lips, and give a deeper shadow to her eyes; looking at herself the
                    while in the thumb?mirror worn on her left hand. No more, no less, intent upon
                    appearing at her best than many a person who has not been born to that end; many
                    a decent, respectable person, who would be dreadfully shocked at having her
                    innocent half hour before the cheval?glass evened to Chândni's most
                    reprehensible occupation. Perhaps the difference lies in the size of the
                    mirrors; at any rate it is not palpably apparent elsewhere.
                Mirza Dalel Beg was living, she knew, in a European house, as the upper ten of
                    natives love to do. Why, is, in five cases out of six, a mystery. The sixth, no
                    doubt, has acquired exotic tastes; the
                    remaining five, no doubt, consider it good style to pretend them. So, after
                    paying roundly for the privilege of toilet?sets and dinner?services, they prefer
                    the water?carrier with his skin bag to a lavatory, and a big platter on the
                    floor to all the neatly?laid dining?tables in creation.
                A curious example of the fascination which useless comforts have for some people
                    came to light during one of the many Embassies from Cabul which British
                    diplomacy, or the want of it, has inveigled into India. During its stay there,
                    district?officers were instructed to provide the whole horde of barbarians with
                    house?room in European fashion so as to avoid invidious distinctions. As a rule,
                    the local Parsee was invited to furnish a requisite number of empty houses with
                    the necessary repp curtains, French clocks, Britannia metal teapots, and German
                    prints, needed for the night's hospitality. Next day, so runs the tale, there
                    never was a soup?plate to be found. Occasionally the guests packed up a French
                    clock; once, it is affirmed, a sponge?bath went amissing, but unless they ate
                    them, that Embassy must have gone back to Cabul
                    with some hundreds of dozens of soup?plates stowed away among the official
                    presents of watches that won't go, and guns that won't fire; and soup is not a
                    national dish in Afghanistan.
                So Dalel Khan had rented a house which he got cheap, because three of its
                    previous tenants had died of typhoid fever. It was a pretty place enough, shut
                    in somewhat by the ravines which furrow the lower part of the ridge, but with an
                    outlook beautiful beyond belief over the plains. The single dahlias—refuse run
                    wild from many a garden above—found foothold in every cranny of the rocks, and
                    great sheets of morning glories climbed over the broken rails fencing the narrow
                    path from the steep khud, which seemed to leap at one bound
                    to the pale blue of the valley below. Chândni, stepping out of her dhooli,
                    looked at it all distastefully, reached forth a strong, ring?bedecked hand,
                    appropriated a yellow dahlia, which she stuck behind her ear, and called. Then
                    the bells clashed again as she walked with a free step over to the verandah of
                    the house, raised the chick, and looked in, while the dhooli?bearers squatted
                    down beside the railings, and apparently
                    resumed a conversation begun in the bazaar. For the rest, sunshine and
                    silence.
                Chândni, dazzled by the glare outside, could at first see nothing clearly; the
                    room, though to her unaccustomed eyes crammed full of useless things, seemed
                    empty of what she sought. Then suddenly there came a shrill, unformed voice—
                ‘Go away! We don't want you. Mam?ma, send her away. Go, I tell you! The Mirza is
                    married now; I am his wife.’
                The girl who came forward was not more than fifteen by the look of her, with a
                    frizz of hot?pressed light hair over her forehead, and a skin which gave one the
                    impression of being bleached, perhaps because of the coal?black eyes set in the
                    narrow sharp face; yet with a certain attractiveness about the figure, dressed
                    as it was in the height of fashion, with sleeves to the ears, and a waist
                    requiring the surgical bandage of folded silk to prevent it from breaking in
                    two.
                His wife! Chândni, from her full height and magnificent development, looked at
                    her as distastefully as she had looked at the view from the terrace. Neither
                    were to her liking: they both appealed too much
                    to the imagination. This other woman who came in answer to the call was better,
                    though past her prime and pulpy; drowsy, too, from the snooze she had been
                    enjoying on the sofa. Still with a torrent of capable, tell?tale abuse for the
                    intruder.
                ‘Ari!’ laughed Chândni contemptuously, when the fat lady paused for breath. ‘So
                    thou too hast been of the bazaar? But I want not thee, or that half?fledged
                    thing who calls herself a wife. I want Dalel—where is he?’
                ‘Mamma!’ cried the unformed voice in English, breaking down over its own feeble
                    passion. ‘Send her away, I tell you! The Mirza will be back soon, and she must
                    not be here. Don't fool with words. Call the servants. Ai!
                        budzart! (base?born). I will throw you down the
                        khud!’
                Chândni laughed again—laughed louder as, in response to the girl's cry, a face
                    showed itself behind her.
                ‘Salaam, oh bhai! (brother),’ she said, nodding her head at
                    the new?comer. ‘Ah! 'tis thou, Mohammed I look you, this image saith she will
                    fling me down the khud. If it came to force, my pigeon, I
                    know which would have the Mirza; but I will not
                    fight for him thus, he is not worth it. So, he fancies thee? God help him! Sure,
                    thy mother is the better woman.’
                ‘Come, come, mother Chândni,’ urged the servant in response to shrill commands.
                    ‘This is no place for thee now. These are mem's. And he hath married her,’ he
                    went on fast and low. ‘Yea! 'tis true, the nikka hath been
                    read, so abuse is vain. Come, thou canst see him elsewhere.’
                ‘Nay! I will see him here—here with his mem,’ retorted Chândni airily. Then she
                    turned swiftly on the elder woman, who, going to the door, was about to call for
                    further assistance. ‘What harm shall I do thee, fool, who art as I am with a
                    piebald skin, or as this one, who would be as I am had God made her a woman. Lo!
                    ask thy servants who Chândni the courtesan is, and what she has been, ay! and
                    will be—if she chooses.’
                It was an odd scene. The room decorated into bastard civilisation; the girl
                    depending on a lack of pigment in her skin for all her claims to mem?ship, that
                    being the only trace of her unknown European father; the mother without even this distinction. yet clinging to her
                    taint of Western blood, as to a patent of nobility; clinging to it farcically,
                    in fringe and furbelow, in fashion generally. Before them, as it were, against
                    them, stood Chândni, in her trailing white Delhi draperies and massive garlands,
                    a figure which might have served as model for some of those strange solemn?eyed
                    statues, half Greek, half Indian, which are found buried in the sand?hills of
                    the frontier. There was a little crowd of dark expectant faces at the door now,
                    towards which she nodded familiarly.
                ‘Go back! oh brothers! I do no harm. 'Tis not my way with women folk. I wait the
                    Mirza's return. Then, if I am not wanted, I will go. Lo! Chândni the courtesan
                    hath no need to keep a man in a leash; she hath no need to have the
                        nikka read, my little pigeon, as thou hast. Ari! so the
                    pictures in the papers Dalel used to bring me are true, and 'tis a beauty to
                    have no body and a big head.’
                Beatrice Norma Elflida D'Eremao, presently her Highness Mrs. Dalel Beg, gave a
                    little scream of rage, and stamped her tiny high? heeled shoes upon the floor. Mrs. Lily Violet D'Eremao, her mother, known in
                    her time by many a sobriquet until she settled
                    down to sobriety and the education of a fair daughter, screamed too, in voluble
                    abuse; but they were both quite helpless before the white?robed figure standing
                    between them and the sunlight with a laugh on its red lips, which did not leave
                    them when into the midst of the scene came Dalel Beg, got up in his dandy riding
                    gear; only the folded pugree remaining to tell the tale of his birth. Perhaps
                    because the ideas within the head it covered needed some such excuse for their
                    existence. His face was hideous in its sheer malice, livid, not with passion or
                    fear, but from that hatred of opposition which belonged to his race. And
                    Chândni, recognising this, swept him a low salaam, graceful to the uttermost
                    curve of each finger, a salaam which would have made Turveydrop die of envy, a
                    salaam such as one sees once or twice in a lifetime. A minute before she might
                    have given it in derision; now she yielded it to the lingering majesty in this
                    pitiful representative of a long line of tyrants.
                
                ‘Long life attend my lord,’ she said, in those liquid tones of set ceremony,
                    which her class pride themselves on acquiring. And even among them Chândni had a
                    silver tongue: none near her, so the report ran.
                Dalel Beg's eyes saw, his ears heard. They would not refuse their wonted office,
                    and yet as he took a step nearer, he raised the hunting crop he held.
                ‘Go!’ he cried. ‘Go! Mohammed! Fuggu—turn this scum of the bazaars from the
                    door.’
                ‘Which scum of the bazaars?’ she asked coolly. ‘This—or that?’
                It was not scorn exactly, it was an indifferent contempt which seemed to leave no
                    denial possible, and which held action arrested.
                ‘Which is it to be, Mirza sahib?’ she asked again, crossing swiftly to where the
                    girl stood as if to measure her height against that small insignificant figure.
                    ‘There is not much to choose between us, except in the outside—and thou hast
                    eyes!’
                ‘Fuggu! Mohammed! Dittu! Scoundrels, turn her out! call the Kotwâl! Turn her out,
                    I say!’ shrieked the Mirza, fast loosing all
                    dignity in a sort of animal admiration for this woman, who, he knew, would come
                    back to him at a word. A word he dare not give,—which he did not wish to give,
                    as yet.
                ‘Softly! softly! oh, my brothers,’ came that liquid voice. ‘There is no need to
                    touch Chândni the courtesan. The master hath his right, and I will go. I only
                    ask a word, and sure my words are better for the ear than theirs.’
                It was incontestably true, for mother and daughter were now at the highest pitch
                    of the Eurasian accent aggravated by hysterics, and the men stood uncertain,
                    siding, every one of them, with that which was familiar.
                ‘The word is this,’ she went on boldly, ‘I have done my part. Is there to be
                    payment?’
                Dalel's face lost its last trace of dignity and settled down into mere spite.
                ‘So! it is payment. Lo! mother?in?law, hold thy peace! 'Tis nothing but a bad
                    debt, a debt without a bond! Payment! Go, fool, and ask it of the old man—the
                    old devil who was drowned. Ask not here—here we need all the money we can
                    get.’
                Then in his delight and content in this 
                        op?
                        opportunity
                     portunity for malice, he forgot a
                    suspicion of fear which had been with him hitherto, and turned to the girl with
                    a leer and a laugh: ‘Aha! we want the oof ourself, don't we,
                    Tricks? Lo! I give you gold watch and chain to?day. I give you gold bangle
                    to?morrow, if you're good girl. But that one—nothing—nothing.’
                He echoed the last words jeeringly in Hindustani, cutting with his whip towards
                    Chândni as one cuts at a dog to frighten it from the room. Perhaps he was nearer
                    than he thought; anyhow, the uttermost end of lash touching the silver bells on
                    her ankle set them jingling. A slight thing to make two women cease their cries,
                    and half a dozen men or more hold their breath involuntarily; yet it did,
                    commanding silence for that clear voice.
                ‘Lo! thou hast given me something, oh Mizra Dalel Beg! which no man hath given
                    before to Chândni the courtesan. It is enough. I go.’
                So far dignity went with her. But at the door she turned to give the women back
                    in kind and with interest the abuse which they had given to her. Even with a
                        despicable cheat like the Mirza, there was
                    a reputation to keep up—he was at least the descendant of worthy men who had
                    done their best for such as she; but with those two women, even as herself, but
                    without her claims, why should she be silent?
                Yet ere she was half?way back to the bazaar she had forgotten them and their
                    abuse; forgotten everything save that clash of the silver bells. That was an
                    end—an end for ever to Dalel. In a way she was glad, for he was unendurable when
                    sober, and not much better when he was drunk. Now nothing remained save the
                    necessity for compensation and revenge. If the Moghuls would not pay, there were
                    others who would. The mem, for instance, who had taken the pearls. And those who
                    had spread it abroad that the chota sahib had died in his bed, they would not
                    care to have their truth impugned. They had bribed the servants no doubt, the
                    Diwan was dead, and they had held the water sufficient inducement for the
                    others. But she? She had had nothing, and she meant to have something. And then
                    when she had got her money's worth for silence, she would go and sell that
                        silence to the Rajah, unless indeed by that
                    time the Moghuls had bidden higher for her speech. Without her evidence the
                    question as to whether the bribe were honestly due for favours done could not be
                    settled. She would begin with the mem; not by demanding money, but the pearls,
                    since most likely they had been disposed of and the difficulty of getting hold
                    of them again would, as it were, increase her power of screw. If at the end of a
                    month the sahib?logues defied her, she would offer her silence or her speech to
                    the highest bidder, and give her evidence for either. After that, a merry life,
                    even if it had to be a short one; for the mere taste of comparative freedom she
                    had had that morning in the wooden house in the Simla bazaar, had aroused the
                    old reckless instincts, and before the evening was over the news that Chândni,
                    singer and dancer from Delhi, had come to the place, was on the tip of every
                    native's tongue.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXII
                MRS. BOYNTON had behaved very much as Lewis Gordon had anticipated on
                    hearing of George Keene's sudden death from cholera. She had wept honest tears
                    over the dear lad, even while she could not help feeling happier than she had
                    done for months; happier because of the flood which had come and gone, sweeping
                    away with it all her difficulties, all her troubles. Yet it brought her one
                    unavailing regret that she should so unnecessarily have put the bitter pain of
                    hearing her confession into those last days, and that he should have gone down
                    to his death not thinking ill of her exactly—the dear lad would never have done
                    that—but hurt, disappointed, unhappy. She would have liked him to have seen a
                    certain letter which lay in a drawer of her writing?table. A letter addressed,
                    sealed, stamped, ready for sending, which she had only kept back one day.
                        Only one; yet, but for that lucky chance it
                    might have fallen into Dan's hands while George was ill and brought needless
                    pain into another kind heart; for there was, thank heaven! no more need for
                    humiliation and confession and promises of restitution. She had torn open the
                    letter in order to read it again, and had been quite satisfied with its
                    straightforward avowal of responsibility and firm intention, should difficulties
                    arise, of taking the whole blame on herself. Then she had put it away again as a
                    perpetual witness to her repentance and amendment. And surely these virtues had
                    a right to forgiveness? One person, she knew, would do more than forgive if he
                    knew all, and this conviction joined to the sense of loss which his prolonged
                    absence from her environment always produced in Gwen Boynton made her think very
                    tenderly of Dan, who wrote her such kind, sympathetic letters from Hodinuggur
                    about the dear lad. He was not jealous, and full of evil imaginings like Lewis,
                    whose temper had certainly not been improved by his visit to the plains. Though
                    she did not consciously feel the need of something stronger than the cousinly
                    affection she had for him, there is no doubt
                    that the shock of her own lapses from strict honesty, joined to that of George
                    Keene's sudden death, had made her disinclined for final decision; so the fact
                    that Dan would, from pressure of work, be unable to get leave that year, and
                    Lewis, from the same cause, was not likely to be urgent in love?making, suited
                    her capitally. She would have time to recover her tone. To this end she
                    proceeded, with a curious strength of purpose, to dismiss the nightmare of the
                    past from her mind. It was over. What had been, had been. She would ‘reach out
                    to the things which were before;’ no! not reach out! She would not again be
                    premature; she would let fate and luck have their say to the full.
                One small fact showed her state of mind exactly. She dismissed her ayah, giving
                    her as a parting present most of the articles which Manohar Lal had forced her
                    into buying from him. The woman sulked, yet held her tongue, no doubt knowing
                    through her patron, the jeweller, that so far as he was concerned the mem was
                    safe; besides, when all was said and done, the bucksheesh was sufficient; under
                        no circumstances could more have been
                    expected. So, on the whole, life went quite smoothly in the pretty little
                    drawing?room where poor young George had sat with his head on the table dazed
                    and stunned by his bitter pain.
                Over the way, however, in Colonel Tweedie's house, things were different. Lewis
                    Gordon, up to the ears in endless calculations, yet found time to notice that
                    grief suited Rose very ill. And grief, forsooth, for a boy who had not cared a
                    pin for her, who had run into debt, and gambled and lost his head completely
                    over another woman; who, if the truth were known, had shot himself because—to
                    take the most charitable view of the matter—he had not the pluck to bear
                    disappointment. Naturally a young fellow felt being fooled—more or less—by a
                    woman, because certain instincts were the strongest a man had—as a man. But one
                    expected something more—or less—in a gentleman. And there was Miss Tweedie, who
                    depended for attractiveness on the beauté du
                        diable, looking pale and worn, over a mere sentimentalism; for she
                    herself would be the first to deny that she had been what he, Lewis, would call
                    ‘in love’ with George. Finally, though he,
                    knowing to the full Gwen's responsibility for the boy's suicide, had every
                    right, if he chose, to be hard on his cousin, why should this girl, who knew
                    nothing, stand aloof and show her disapproval so plainly?
                ‘You don't understand girls,’ said Gwen easily, in reply to some hints of his to
                    this effect. ‘Dear Rose can't help huffing me at present. I should feel the
                    same, I'm sure, towards any one who had, to my mind, stood between me and my
                    dear dead.’
                Lewis shifted irritably in his chair, and wished to goodness she would talk
                    sense.
                ‘Sense! Why, you yourself are always blaming me in your heart because that poor
                    boy thought me the most perfect woman in the world! You know you are! As if it
                    was my fault. As if I ever encouraged such an idea in any one, or set up for
                    being perfection.’
                It was true enough. She never posed as anything but a woman pur et simple. That was one of her charms in his
                    eyes, and the injustice of cavilling at what he really liked made him say more
                    gently—
                
                ‘I don't suppose you could help it, dear; and perhaps Miss Tweedie can't either.
                    I don't pretend to understand women—have enough to do in trying to understand
                    the atrocious English men put into their reports. But I wish you could come over
                    sometimes as you used to do. The girl oughtn't to be allowed to eat nothing and
                    grow so disagreeably thin.’
                Gwen gave an odd laugh. ‘Well, I'll invite myself to luncheon to?morrow. It is
                    bad for the girl—and so useless, into the bargain.’
                The common?sense of the last remark lingered in Lewis Gordon's mind comfortably
                    as he went home. In more ways than one it was quite useless to dwell on George
                    Keene's unfortunate death. No doubt Rose, if she knew all, would judge Gwen very
                    harshly, and not only Gwen, but those who, knowing what they did, went on as if
                    nothing had happened; but Rose Tweedie, the fates be praised, was not his
                    judge.
                And yet when he passed the window of her room on his way to his own, she was in
                    sober truth sitting in judgment on the figure she saw for a second between the draped curtains. He had been over as usual to
                    Mrs. Boynton's—to the woman who had been the last to see George Keene, and who
                    would say so little of that interview; the woman who no doubt was to blame if,
                    as her father said, George had run into debt, and gambled, and lost his head.
                    Lewis must know all this, perhaps more, yet he went on approvingly. By and by he
                    would marry this woman—for they were engaged, of course, even now. Was not that
                    enough to make any one unhappy who cared for him as she cared? Rose leant
                    forward over the book her eyes were studying, and tried hard to bend her mind
                    also to its consideration.
                Despite these thoughts she received Mrs. Boynton on the next day without a sign
                    of disapproval; for Rose, like most unmarried girls at the head of a house, was
                    intensely proud of her position. In society, if she did not care to speak to
                    Gwen, she would not speak; if she did not care to have her in the house she
                    would not ask her; but if she came, as she did now, uninvited, she was nothing
                    more nor less than a guest to be treated as a guest should be treated. Perhaps
                        Lewis Gordon had an inkling as to the cause
                    of her graciousness, but Colonel Tweedie saw nothing but a renewal of those
                    amenities the loss of which he had helplessly deplored during the past
                    fortnight. It had put him out terribly, and left him completely puzzled as to
                    its cause. Certainly not to any change in his mind, for the coolness had checked
                    a steadily growing conviction that he would not only like, but that he also
                    ought, to ask Mrs. Boynton to marry him. Rose was too much alone; she brooded,
                    as the former had kindly pointed out, over life, and fancied herself in love
                    with subordinates. She was too sensible for that sort of thing to be real, but
                    the constant companionship of a woman of the world was a necessity to a young
                    girl. It is surprising how many second marriages are inspired by sensible
                    considerations; still more surprising why such prudence should then be thought
                    virtuous, moral, blameless, yet be deemed anathema
                        maranatha in first marriages. There are some things which, as
                    Dundreary said, ‘no fellah can find out,’ and one is the curious ethical code
                    which has quite obscured the real issues of marriage, and made it possible for quick?witted husbands and wives to quarrel
                    desperately with each other about things that have nothing to do with the tie
                    between them. Colonel Tweedie, however, treated his secondary reasons with the
                    greatest respect, and beamed pompously round the luncheon table as he announced
                    his infinite regret that the duties of his responsible position made it
                    necessary for him to leave such pleasant company sooner than he would otherwise
                    have done. Mrs. Boynton, however, would readily understand that Councils of
                    State were paramount to the public servant. Whereupon Gwen, after her fashion,
                    took the edge off his anguish by saying that she also had to be at home early,
                    seeing she had promised to interview some dreadful Madrassee creature who had
                    been recommended to her as an ayah.
                ‘Why did you send old Fuzli away?’ asked Rose suddenly. They had risen as they
                    were speaking, and she had been standing by the window listening with certain
                    weariness in her face to her father's ornate regrets.
                ‘The old reason, “I do not like thee, Dr. Fell,”’ laughed Gwen. ‘I
                    suppose it is very illogical—therefore, as Lewis would say, very womanly,—but I can't help disliking my world by
                    instinct.’
                ‘That is monstrously unkind,’ broke in the Colonel, eager as a boy over the
                    opportunity, ‘when your world can't help doing the reverse.’ There is something
                    very satisfactory apparently in a compliment to the person who makes it, and the
                    Colonel felt and looked quite light?hearted over his.
                ‘When you have got rid of us all, Miss Tweedie,’ said Lewis Gordon in a low tone
                    which yet covered Gwen's little laugh, ‘you should go out and have a jolly ride.
                    I'm not using Bronzewing—she frets at waiting—so she is at your service, if you
                    care—’ he paused in quick surprise—
                Such a very little thing upsets a woman's balance at times; and Bronzewing had
                    been the one subject over which she and Lewis had never quarrelled since the day
                    of his accident. It was foolish, but the look on her face made him turn hastily
                    from the window to his cousin, and catch at the first thing likely to give the
                    girl time to recover herself.
                ‘I believe your ayah's coming here, Gwen; at least I see one of those little
                        covered dhoolies descending from your
                    house, and if there are to be purda?nishin women about, sir,
                    it is time we men were going.’
                ‘Don't be ridiculous, Lewis. It is somebody going to pay a visit to the
                        khansaman's wife. The ayah wouldn't be
                        purdah, and she wouldn't dare to come here; and if she
                    did, I am not going to make a zenana out of Colonel Tweedie's
                    drawing?room.’
                ‘But you could go into Rose's sitting?room, of course,’ protested the Colonel;
                    ‘couldn't she, dear?’
                ‘But indeed, good people,’ began Gwen, laughing, ‘it can't—’
                Just then a servant, entering stolidly, announced a woman waiting to see Mem
                    Boynton sahib.
                ‘I told you so,’ cried Lewis joyfully, ‘and, as a matter of fact, we ought to be
                    off, sir. It will take us a good twenty minutes to the Secretariat.’
                ‘Show the woman into the Miss Sahib's office,’ cried the Colonel fussily. ‘Rose,
                    my dear—’
                But the girl had taken the opportunity of escaping through the open French
                    window.
                
                ‘Please don't mind,’ said Mrs. Boynton. ‘I know my way about this house—at any
                    rate I ought to, seeing how hospitable and good you have been always. Good?bye.
                    I hope your interview will prove more pleasant than mine is likely to be.’
                Their ponies were waiting, and she stayed to see them start and give a parting
                    nod as they rounded the last visible turn of the path leading to the Mall. Gwen
                    always added these pleasant friendly touches to the bareness and business of
                    life. They came to her by instinct, and she herself felt cold and cheerless
                    without them.
                Then, very well satisfied with herself, she crossed the long matted passage which
                    ran from end to end of the house, separating the portion Colonel Tweedie
                    reserved for his own use from that occupied by the office. Here, beside her
                    father's private room, was Rose's little study, and beyond that again Lewis
                    Gordon's quarters and the big glazed verandah where the clerks sat designing. It
                    was quite a small room, and, as Mrs. Boynton entered it, seemed to her over full
                    of perfume, possibly from the vase full of wild turk's?cap lilies on the table. The window was shut too, and Gwen as
                    she made her way to the most comfortable chair, with scarcely a glance at the
                    white?robed figure standing in the shadow of the curtains, gave a quick yet
                    languid order to set the glazed doors wide open.
                ‘They are best shut if the Huzoor does not mind. I have that to say which
                    requires caution.’
                Those round, suave tones, with almost the nightingale thrill in them belonged to
                    no ayah, surely! Gwen looked round hastily. That was no ayah's figure either,
                    tall, supple, unabashed. Instinctively the Englishwoman stood up and confronted
                    her visitor, more curious than alarmed. Even to that ignorance of native life
                    which is so typical of the mem?sahib—an ignorance not altogether to be
                    deprecated—the woman's trade was unmistakable. That was writ large in the
                    trimness and cleanliness, the spotless white, the chaplets of flowers, the scent
                    of musk and ambergris filling the room; all the more reason for surprise at her
                    presence there. Yet, even so, curiosity outweighed indignation and resentment in
                    Gwen's cold questioning.
                
                ‘Who are you? What do you want?’
                The answer came quick, so quickly that it left the hearer with that breathless
                    sense of pained relief that the worst is over, which comes with the clean sharp
                    cut of a surgeon's knife.
                ‘I am Chândni of Delhi. I want the Hodinuggur pearls which the Huzoor took out of
                    the Ayôdhya pot.’
                There was no mincing of the matter here; none of that beating about the bush
                    which, as a rule, Gwen loved. Yet the directness did not displease her; it
                    seemed to rouse in her a novel combativeness, taking form in similar effrontery
                    and cool assertion.
                ‘I don't know what you are talking about,’ she said indifferently, ‘and I don't
                    want you. Go!’
                Her Hindustani, though limited, was of the imperative order and suited the
                    occasion; yet it evoked one of Chândni's shrill mocking laughs.
                ‘The mem sahiba mistakes. She is not as I am, a daughter of the bazaars, and if
                    it comes to words Chândni hath two to her one. So I come quietly to ask
                    reasonably for my rights; not to dispute after the manner of my kind. There is no need to tell the mem sahiba the
                    story. She remembers it perfectly. She knows it all as well as I. But this she
                    does not know: The pearls are mine, and I will have them back, or their price in
                    revenge.’
                ‘I think you are mad!’ cried Gwen more hastily. ‘Go! go instantly,
                    or I will call the servants.’
                ‘That were not wise! Lo! I know all about the papers of safety, which Manohar Lal
                    gave in exchange for the chota sahib's rupees. But the pearls went not once, but
                    twice.’
                ‘Twice!’ The involuntary echo had a surprise in which angered the courtesan.
                ‘Yes, twice! The mem knows that as well as I do. The Ayôdhya pot—’
                ‘Was stolen from me in the Palace,’ put in Gwen; ‘you stole it, I dare say.’
                Again Chândni laughed. ‘If I did, what then? The mem got it again and sent it
                    back through the post for more pearls. But we did not send it thus; we sent it
                    by the chota sahib, who gave it to the mem, and she sent the key in return. The
                    papers are about the first pearls. These are the second, and there is no safety
                    paper about them.’
                
                ‘It is not true!—it is a lie—he never took them—he never gave them to me,’ cried
                    Gwen, her courage, oddly enough, failing before what was to her an absolutely
                    novel and unfounded accusation. ‘I will not listen! Go! or I will call.’
                Chândni took a step nearer, lowering her voice. ‘What! wouldst let the truth be
                    known; when thou canst conceal it—for ever! Give me the pearls and no one shall
                    know—no one shall cast dirt on the mem, and on the chota sahib—no one shall know
                    how he took the bribes for you—no one shall know thou didst beguile him as men
                    are beguiled.’
                ‘I—I did not—it is a lie, I—’ faltered Gwen, falling back till Chândni's hand
                    closed like a vice on her wrist.
                ‘Wah! What use to deny it to me? Do I not know the trick? A
                    word, a look, no more. What! do men send bullets through their hearts as Keene
                    sahib did for no cause? Ari, sister! we know better.’
                The jeering comradeship was too much for caution, even though the story of poor
                    George's death passed by her as a wanton lie. Gwen, struggling madly, gave one
                    scream after another for help, and, breaking
                    from her persecutor, turned to fly. At the same moment Rose, who had been into
                    her father's study for a book, burst through the door and stood bewildered at
                    the scene.
                ‘Send her away! She tells lies—lies about me and George—lies about everything.
                    Oh! have her sent away, Rose. Please send her away.’
                The girl, clasping the hands with which Gwen clung to her, turned on the intruder
                    angrily, and an indescribable hardness and contempt came to her face, as she
                    took in the meaning of the figure and its dress.
                ‘How dare you come here? Go this instant! Put on your veil, hide yourself, and
                    go! Impertinent! Shameless!’
                There was no answering laugh now. ‘The Huzoor speaks truth,’ replied the
                    courtesan quietly. ‘I have no business here. I came but to see the mem,
                    bethinking me she might listen better in the house of those who were friends to
                    the chota sahib—’
                But Gwen's immediate terror had passed, leaving her face to face with future
                    fears.
                ‘Don't listen, Rose!’ she interrupted in
                    English. ‘You should never listen to what women of that sort say about any one.
                    She frightened me at first with her lies, but the wisest plan is to send her
                    away. I'll call a servant.’
                Chândni, listening to the quick whisper, smiled.
                ‘The mem sahiba wants silence,’ she said, nodding her head; ‘but silence is ever
                    unsafe unless tongues are tied. And mine will wag if not here, elsewhere, unless
                    I get the Ayôdhya pot.’
                Rose gave a quick exclamation, but Gwen's hand was on her arm, her voice full of
                    passionate entreaty.
                ‘Don't, Rose! don't speak to her. I can tell you all. It is all lies; some
                    rigmarole declaring that after the pot had been stolen at Hodinuggur it was sent
                    back to me here at Simla, and that I returned it again. There isn't a word of
                    truth in it; I never—’
                But the girl set aside her detaining hand with an impatient gesture, and crossed
                    to where Chândni stood watching them.
                ‘You have made a mistake,’ came the clear unfaltering voice. ‘The Ayôdhya pot was
                    not sent to the mem sahiba, it was sent to me;
                    and it was I who returned it. What then?’
                The frank admission brought a curiously similar expression to those two listening
                    faces; it seemed to leave both, abashed, uncertain, so that Rose had to repeat
                    her clear question before it gained reply.
                ‘What then?’ echoed the courtesan at last, somewhat sulkily. ‘How can I tell if
                    this be so; and if it be so, how can I tell what came? Only this I do know: the
                    pot went to Keene sahib the day he left. He gave it to some one. Let that some
                    one answer. I care not who 'tis, so I have my pearls that were hidden in the
                    pot.’
                ‘Pearls! There were no pearls in it when it came to me,’ cried Rose quickly; then
                    remembering the jagged edge of clay she had noticed inside, she turned to Gwen:
                    ‘Did you notice anything like a false bottom when you had it before?’
                The face into which she looked paled. ‘You don't understand!’ said Gwen,
                    petulantly; ‘the woman says that these pearls were put there after it was
                    stolen, so how could I notice anything when I tell you I never saw, never heard of it again? I told the woman
                    so just now. I will tell her again before you! then I must, I will have her sent
                    away, she has no business here.’
                But Chândni's recklessness had grown. ‘I care not who has them. See! there are
                    three of us here in this room who have handled the pot. Let her who hath it and
                    its hoard speak truth, and save the chota sahib. For he had it, sure enough; of
                    that there is proof.’
                ‘Three of us!’ repeated Rose absently, as if struck by a thought. Then obeying a
                    sudden impulse, she went over to a portfolio standing in one corner of the room.
                    ‘You mistake,’ she continued, her eyes full on the courtesan. ‘There are not
                    three, but four of us. Look! Keene sahib painted that.’
                Chândni fell back, averting her face from the portrait of Azizan, which Rose
                    placed against an easel on the table.
                ‘The evil eye! the evil eye! God save us from the witch,’ she muttered, thrusting
                    out her right hand in that two?fingered gesture, which is used against a baleful
                    glance in both East and West. But Gwen pressing closer looked at the picture with a dawning light of
                    relieved comprehension in her face.
                ‘Did he paint that—how pretty it is! And it explains—it explains—a—a great deal.
                    He gave her the pot, I suppose—Well! it is a pity, but one ought not to be—’
                ‘Ought not to be what?’ interrupted Rose fiercely, with a fine scorn in her face,
                    scarcely less concealed than the contempt with which she turned to the other
                    woman.
                ‘You both seem to know or understand this picture better than I do,’ she said
                    superbly. ‘Perhaps you can tell me whom it represents?’
                ‘My dear Rose,’ expostulated Gwen, aside; ‘don't for pity's sake ask that
                    creature. What would your father say if he knew? You may mix yourself up—’
                ‘Whose picture is it, I ask?’ repeated Rose, unheeding. Then in the silence of
                    Chândni's smile, and Gwen's frown, she turned passionately to the portrait
                    itself. ‘Why don't you speak and shame them? You look as if you could tell the
                    truth, and if he made you so, it was true!’ The very vehemence of her own
                    fanciful appeal imposed on her, and she paused
                    as if waiting a reply. It came with a laugh from Chândni.
                ‘She was another of the chota sahib's friends. The miss saith true. There are
                    three of them here. Which will give back the pearls and save him?’
                ‘Save him from what?’ cried Rose, disregarding Gwen's appeals for her to leave
                    the mad woman to the servants. ‘What has Keene sahib done that you can dare to
                    threaten?’
                The girl's bitter contempt roused all Chândni's savageness. After all she was the
                    mistress, and this girl, despite her courage, in her power too; and what is
                    more, she should learn it.
                ‘From what? from the shame which comes to the sahib?logue when their pretence of
                    honesty is found out—from the shame of having friends—the shame of taking jewels
                    for those friends—the shame of being untrue to salt—Ask the mem how 'tis done,
                    she knows—the shame of sending the key of the sluice?gate so that the
                    water—’
                Her voice had risen with each sentence; now it ended in a gasp and a gurgle.
                
                ‘Open the door, please,’ said Rose to Mrs. Boynton, who gasped also in the
                    intense surprise of the girl's swift action. ‘Don't struggle, fool!’ she went on
                    in the same hard tone, only the dead whiteness of her face and a catch as she
                    drew breath telling of the wild passion surging in her veins. ‘I won't choke you
                    if you hold your tongue.’
                Once before Chândni had felt a girl's grip on her throat; a hot, straining grip.
                    This was neither. It was the grip of a strong healthy hand made vigorous by
                    constant use. Those fierce fights over bat and ball with the dead lad had had
                    their share in the sheer muscle of her defence of him, before which Chândni's
                    large softness gave way, leaving her not even a slandering tongue.
                ‘Put the veil over her face, please! I won't even have it known who dared to come
                    here!’ continued the girl, forcing the woman backwards step by step till they
                    reached the door. Then she pushed her from it magnificently. ‘Now go! and tell
                    what lies you like elsewhere.’
                But her face changed as she turned when the door was closed and bolted to Gwen
                    Boynton.
                
                ‘Is it true? For God's sake tell me if there is a word of truth in it, and I will
                    find the money.’
                Gwen dissolved into helpless tears at once; tears at once of vague remorse, and a
                    very real sense of injustice. ‘True! oh, Rose, how can you ask? Of course it
                    isn't true. I wouldn't have done it for the world. Indeed and indeed I never saw
                    the Ayôdhya pot again, and I don't believe George did. He was the soul of
                    honour, and so good—so good to me. It is all wicked, wicked lies, unless,
                    indeed, that girl—but there, I daresay she was bad like that horrid creature.
                    Perhaps they stole the pot between them and are now trying to blackmail us.’
                ‘Stole the pot!’ repeated Rose slowly, for the first time remembering her dream
                    on the night of the storm at Hodinuggur. ‘Yes! that is possible, and yet—’ She
                    looked at Azizan's picture, and then back at Gwen, who was dabbing her eyes with
                    a soft pocket handkerchief. ‘You are sure?’ she began again.
                ‘Of course I am quite sure,’ retorted Gwen, whose remorse had vanished in
                    grievance at this impudent attempt to amend and enlarge the text of a past incident. ‘I never saw or heard of
                    the pot again. I may be weak, I may have done things for which I am sorry in the
                    past, but whatever you may think, my conscience is clear. And as for the sluice?
                    Dan opened it by order; besides, there was the flood. It is all an attempt to
                    blackmail me, and I won't be blackmailed. I have done nothing they can take hold
                    of, nothing—nothing.’
                Rose gave a sigh, almost of dissatisfaction. If it really was a case of
                    blackmailing, payment would be but a temporary relief. Perhaps, as she had also
                    suggested, the girl in the picture was in league with Chândni. She did not look
                    that sort either. Nor did she look as if— Rose glanced from the pure oval of the
                    cheek and the fine long curves of the mouth to Mrs. Boynton's tear?stained face
                    and frowned.
                ‘Some one has the pearls,’ she said, ‘and George's memory must be
                    saved—somehow.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIII
                ‘COME in!’
                The words were given in an impatient tone, for Lewis Gordon was busy, and he
                    hated being disturbed; especially when, as now, he had taken his coat off,
                    literally as well as figuratively, before a difficult file.
                The garment hung on the back of his chair, which, in obedience to a fad of his,
                    was the only one in the office; a second one, he declared, being easily sent for
                    if required, while its absence shortened many a trivial interruption. Otherwise
                    it was a comfortable enough room, with a large French window set wide on a
                    magnificent view of the serrated snows resting on the wall of blue distance, and
                    framed by the curved tops of a forest of young deodars. The day was bright as a
                    morning in the rainy season can be; bright by very contrast between the
                    brilliant lights and shadows in earth and sky;
                    bright as a rain?cloud itself when the sun shines on it. A fresh breeze came in
                    with Rose Tweedie through the opening door and blew some papers off the
                    table.
                ‘I beg your pardon,’ came in duet as Lewis fumbled blindly for his coat: his
                    eye?glass having deserted him in the surprise, after the manner of eye?glasses.
                    As he did so, he felt injured. Not that he was such a crass idiot as to be
                    outraged by a pair of shirt sleeves in himself or others. But he knew quite well
                    that no man can look dignified, when struggling, even into a lounge?coat, and he
                    liked to be dignified, especially with Rose Tweedie. His irritation, however,
                    hid itself under a different cloak; that is to say, annoyance at a most unusual
                    intrusion. Perhaps she read the expression of it in his face, for her first
                    words were an excuse.
                ‘I came here—to your office, I mean—because I want to ask you something, and I
                    didn't want you to feel hampered—not as a friend, you know.’ Her eyes met his in
                    confidence of being understood so far, at any rate, and he gave rather a stiff
                    little bow.
                
                ‘You are very welcome. Won't you take a chair—the chair, perhaps I ought to say?
                    I've been sitting all the morning, and shall be glad of a change; unless you
                    require some time. If so, I will send—’
                ‘No, thanks, I prefer standing also,’ she interrupted, with a quick flush. ‘I
                    only wanted to ask you a question. It is about George Keene.’
                ‘Yes—’ he replied coldly, unsympathetically; and yet he was noting her anxious
                    eyes and haggard face with a sort of angry wonder why she should make herself so
                    unhappy. Rose's fingers held nervously to the edge of the table by which she
                    stood.
                ‘Have you any reason—I mean, is there officially any reason to suppose that the
                    Hodinuggur sluice was opened before the flood came down, or before Mr.
                    Fitzgerald—?’ She paused with her eyes on Lewis's face. She had lain awake
                    almost all the night thinking of Chândni's threats and hints, and with clear
                    sight had seen that their worth or unworth depended largely upon the official
                    report of what had actually happened at Hodinuggur. To her father she could
                        not go without danger from his want of
                    judgment; there remained Lewis, who was always just, always to be trusted in
                    such matters.
                His heart gave quite a throb of dismayed surprise at her question, and forced him
                    by contraries into still greater chilliness of manner.
                ‘I'm afraid I can't quite see your right to ask me such a question—as yet.
                    Perhaps if you could give me a reason—’
                ‘Oh yes! I can give you a reason,’ she interrupted, with a ring of scorn in her
                    voice, ‘though I think you might credit me with a good one where George is
                    concerned, surely? Only if I have to tell, you had better send for the chair. I
                    thought, perhaps, you would understand, for once.’
                The bitterness of her tone did not escape him, and accentuated his annoyance. As
                    he handed her the chair and leant negligently against the table, his hands
                    behind him, he told himself that he was in for mauvais
                        quart d'heure with this girl. Man?like she would expect to know
                    all, woman?like she would expect sentiment to outweigh official integrity. These
                    thoughts did not serve to soften his heart
                    towards the dead lad even at the beginning, and as her story unfolded itself,
                    his face grew sterner and sterner. Hers lightened. It was an infinite relief to
                    have his advice—his help, and she told him so frankly, even while she appealed
                    for it.
                ‘You needn't even answer my question, Mr. Gordon,’ she went on earnestly. ‘You
                    will know so much better than I do what had best be done. I thought of going to
                    see the woman myself—’
                ‘You didn't go, I hope?’ put in Lewis hastily.
                ‘No! I made up my mind to ask you first. You see, if there is no truth in all
                    this—no truth whatever—’
                ‘That is unlikely, I warn you,’ interrupted Lewis. ‘These women— Really, Miss
                    Tweedie, if you follow my advice—much as it may pain you at the time—you will
                    leave this business alone, absolutely alone. It is not one with which—excuse me
                    for even alluding to the fact—a girl such as you are should meddle.
                    Unfortunately, we men have to face these things, and they are not pleasant, even
                    for us.’
                ‘You speak as if you thought George was guilty,’
                    said Rose hotly. ‘What right have you to do that?’
                ‘I may have more right than you suspect. Believe me Miss Tweedie, I am heartily
                    sorry—especially for you; and, so far as is compatible with the facts, I will do
                    my best to avoid official esclandre should
                    this matter really crop up. In the meantime, I am afraid I must decline to
                    interfere in what Mrs. Boynton, you tell me, stigmatised as an impudent attempt
                    at blackmailing. She has her faults, no doubt, like everybody else; but she has,
                    excuse me for saying so, more knowledge of the world than you have. In fact, you
                    could scarcely do better than take her advice on this point.’
                The girl, with a frown on her face, rose from her seat slowly.
                ‘Then you refuse to find out the truth? You are content to let this suspicion lie
                    upon—upon me and upon your cousin?’
                Lewis smiled. ‘That is rather far?fetched, Miss Tweedie, surely. The idea of
                    suspicion with you is simply absurd; and as for Gwen! Well, I know you are ready
                    to admit she has her faults; but she has called this claim impudent blackmailing, and you must excuse me if I
                    incline to believe her.’
                ‘And for George Keene? Do you suspect him? Are you going to allow his memory to
                    be smirched?’
                ‘I have told you I will do my best. For the rest, he must take the consequence of
                    his own acts, I'm afraid. Indeed, I am sorry, very sorry,’ he added hastily,
                    impelled to it by the look on Rose Tweedie's face. It had grown ashen pale, yet
                    she stood steadily before him, her eyes on his unflinchingly.
                ‘Then there is truth in it? You had better tell me. It would be kinder to tell
                    me—if you can.’
                Perhaps, after all, it would. Perhaps, if this scandal had to come to light, it
                    would be better she should be prepared. Even if it did not, was it not wiser she
                    should know the real truth about George Keene, and so be able to judge him
                    fairly? Not a bad boy, of course. That talk of bribery was no doubt false, and
                    he had done no more in other ways than hundreds of boys in a like position. Even
                    at Simla he had only run wild a bit, and for that he was not the only one
                        responsible. Still, when all was said and
                    done, he had shot himself, and that alone made the task of whitewashing him an
                    impossibility if these women chose revenge.
                ‘Yes! there is some truth in it,’ he said gravely. ‘If you will sit down again, I
                    will tell you everything I know, and then you can judge for yourself. I should
                    like you to understand, however, that in spite of appearances, I don't believe
                    George lent himself to anything more than—what you would—not you, perhaps—but
                    most of us would expect in a young fellow of his age and his position. Life
                    is—is rather intoxicating to—to some of us.’
                So, leaning against the table, he told her the truth, trying to do his task
                    calmly and kindly, yet beset by a certain impatience at the still figure seated
                    in his office chair, its elbows among his files, the coils of its beautiful hair
                    showing beyond the hands in which the face was hidden. What business had it
                    there? What business had the thought of its pain to come so close to him? closer
                    even than his own reason, his own sense of justice?
                ‘And you have known that he shot himself from the beginning?’ she asked, raising
                        her head suddenly to look him full in the
                    face. He assented with a distinct self?complacency.
                ‘Then what did you think made him do it? What did you think then—before you knew
                    anything about the debts or the opening of the gates?’
                The self?complacency vanished. ‘There are many reasons or want of reasons, for
                    that sort of thing, Miss Tweedie,’ he said evasively. ‘I did not—I mean it was
                    impossible to say absolutely, and that is why I acquiesced in Fitzgerald's plan.
                    It was more convenient to every one concerned.’
                ‘Much more convenient,’ echoed Rose sharply. ‘And you have known this all the
                    time, and not—’ she broke off, as if incredulous of her own half?uttered
                    thought.
                ‘Certainly, I have known it, and we would have kept the secret too, Fitzgerald
                    and I, but for this unfortunate business,’ he retorted, and his tone was not
                    pleasant.
                ‘Ah! he is different: he did not know! he
                    thought George had done it for his sake, to screen him. But you? What did you
                    believe?’ The girl's very voice was a challenge.
                ‘I must say, Miss Tweedie, that I scarcely see
                    how my belief affects the question; or, pardon me, what it matters to you,’ he
                    replied, taking refuge once more in his indifference.
                ‘Do you not? Then I do. Not that it matters now,’ she added in sudden passion,
                    ‘for I will have my own way in the future. If you won't help me, I can't help
                    that; but I will have the truth. I will go down to this woman in the bazaar and
                    make her tell me. Whether her story is a lie or not, there shall be no more
                    concealment. I will not have it.’
                ‘And George Keene's memory?’ he suggested, angered almost beyond his self?control
                    by her unmistakable defiance. ‘My advice is unwelcome, of course, but if you
                    took it, and Mrs. Boynton's—only that is unwelcome too—you might save all
                    scandal. I cannot say for certain that it would, but as I have told you, I would
                    do my best. Officially even, I would do my best. That seems to be an offence
                    also, for some reason, but I would do it as much for the sake of the Department
                    as for the boy's. You—I know—think only of him—
                She turned upon him like lightning, carried out of herself by her scorn, by her
                    passion.
                
                ‘Of him! I was not thinking of him at all! I was thinking of you—of you only, as
                    I always do. Why should you not know the truth? You will not care a pin whether
                    I think of you or not. And I? I care for nothing—nothing so long as you do not
                    blindfold yourself wilfully—so long as you are just and honest. Ah! you may
                    think I am mad—perhaps if what you believe about men and women is true, I am—but
                    it means everything—everything in the world to me that you should be so—just and
                    honest; because what you are is more to me than all the world beside. That is
                    the truth.’ The last words came slowly as the fire of her passion died down; yet
                    there was no uncertainty in them. ‘I suppose I oughtn't to have said this,’ she
                    went on, turning from him to lean her elbows on the table, and rest her head on
                    her hands wearily. ‘But you won't mind, and I don't care. It can't hurt any man
                    to know that he is loved—it can't.’
                ‘Loved!’ The word sent a thrill through the man such as he had never
                    felt before. ‘Loved!’ was that what she meant? The thought broke
                    through even his armour of surprise. He stood
                    for an instant looking down at her, then turned slowly and walked to the window,
                    to return, however, in a second, with quick clear steps breaking the silence of
                    the room.
                ‘What do you mean?—I can't believe it. What do you mean?’
                His impatience would not wait for a reply in words. Her face would give it truly,
                    that he knew, and he stooped over her, taking her by the wrists, in order to
                    draw her hands apart. She turned to him then bravely enough.
                ‘Rose!’
                It was almost a cry, as, stooping lower still, he knelt before her, his eyes on
                    hers incredulous, yet soft. Then suddenly, still clasping her slender wrists, he
                    buried his face upon them on her lap, muttering—
                ‘Oh, I am sorry!—I am sorry!’
                Never since, as a child, he had said his prayers at his mother's knee, had Lewis
                    Gordon so knelt to man or woman. And something of the child's unquestioning
                    belief in an unselfish love came back to him, joined to a perfect passion of the
                    man's clear?sighted remorse and regret for long years of past disbelief.
                
                ‘Don't,’ she said, gently bending over him; ‘please don't. There is nothing for
                    you to be sorry about—indeed, there isn't.’
                Nothing to be sorry about! Once more he echoed this girl's words to himself with
                    that strange thrill, as, recovering his self?command, he stood straight and
                    stiff beside her, conscious only of one vehement desire to care for and to
                    protect her.
                ‘What is it you want me to do?’ he said at last unsteadily. ‘Tell me, and I'll do
                    it.’
                Then, woman?like, she began to cry; it is a way the good ones have when they
                    succeed in imposing their own will on those they love.
                ‘I don't think I want you to do anything—particular,’ she answered, trying to
                    conceal her tears. ‘I don't know; besides, I would much rather you did it your
                    own way.’
                If the uttermost truth could be told about a man's emotion in such scenes, as it
                    can be regarding a woman's, it would have to be confessed that Lewis Gordon came
                    very near to crying also over this foolish unconditional surrender on Rose
                    Tweedie's part. For he understood the irresolution of a generous nature before
                    its own success and what is more, the woman's
                    desire to give the man she loves the glory of justifying her belief in him. He
                    felt quite a lump in his throat, and had to seek escape from the tenderness of
                    one sex in the decision of the other; for in nine cases out of ten these are but
                    different methods of showing the same emotion.
                ‘I will go down and see this woman to?day; and then—’ He paused, not in order to
                    think over his next move—that undoubtedly would be to see Gwen Boynton—but to
                    overcome a dislike to mentioning her name at all which suddenly assailed him.
                    Why, he scarcely knew except that it seemed mean, unmanly. Rose, however saved
                    him from the necessity by again repeating—this time almost abjectly—that she
                    would rather not know; that she would be quite content to leave the matter his
                    hands.
                ‘Thank you,’ replied Lewis, in such a very low tone that it was almost a whisper.
                    It did not lead, however, as might have been expected, to a silence, but to a
                    louder, more aggressive gratitude. ‘I have to thank you—for many things. I won't
                    affect to ignore or set aside what—what you did me the honour of telling me just now. That would be sheer
                    impertinence on my—’
                Now, when he had got so far in a perfectly admirable sentiment, calculated to
                    soothe both her feelings and his, why he should suddenly have found his hands in
                    hers again, his heart full of an unpremeditated assertion that he was glad she
                    loved him, cannot be explained logically; but so it was. Yet before the scared
                    look in her eyes his own fell, he loosened his clasp, and the appeal died from
                    his lips. There was no place for him or his questionings in her avowal. That
                    hedged itself about from intrusion with a dignity he recognised. So what
                    remained, save to pass on with as much of the same quality as he could compass
                    to the work assigned to him.
                ‘I will come in and tell you what I have done this afternoon about five o'clock,’
                    he said quietly; ‘that is, if it is convenient.’
                ‘Quite, thank you.’
                The baldest, most conventional of tones on both sides. The baldest, most
                    convenient holding open of the door for her to pass out—to pass out from a scene
                    that would linger in his memory; in nothing else. The descent to normal diapason comes sooner or later, no matter how
                    highly strung the instrument may be to begin with, and melodrama fades into
                    padding. In real life it generally leaves some of the actors dissatisfied with
                    the way the scene has played. Lewis Gordon felt this distinctly as he was left
                    looking at his own chair, as if he still saw a girl's figure seated there, her
                    elbows resting on the litter of official papers, and the great coils of her
                    burnished hair showing beyond the hands which hid her face.
                ‘It can't hurt any man to know that he is loved.’
                She had said so; but she was wrong. It did hurt confoundedly. So that was what
                    she meant by love, was it?—
                If any of the trivial interruptions which Lewis Gordon so much dreaded had come
                    during the following five minutes, they would have found the coveted chair
                    vacant, though the owner's face was buried in his hands among the files of
                    memorandums and reports. Apparently he gained little consolation from them, for
                    when he resumed work he looked about as upset and disordered as a tidy man can do when he is cool and properly clothed.
                    Nor did they gain much from him during the next hour, which ticked away
                    remorselessly from the chronometer by which Lewis loved to map out his day. He
                    thrust them aside at last impatiently, and ordered his pony, thinking that may
                    be when he had been through that visit to the bazaar he might feel less of a
                    duffer, and not quite so much knocked out of time. And yet she had said there
                    was nothing to regret,—that he would not care,—that it would not matter to him
                    if she thought of him or not!
                It was a queer world! He set his teeth over it as he rode reluctantly between the
                    shingled arcades of the big bazaar, and then through a narrow paved alley,
                    pitching, as it were, sheer down into the blue mists of the valley below; and so
                    on to the balconied house where, from inquiries at the Kotwâli, he learned that
                    Chândni was lodging. The task before him was a disagreeable one, and he swore
                    inwardly as he thought that but for his abject capitulation Rose would have
                    attempted it herself. Rose! of all people. He began to understand that the
                    feminine world could not be divided into two
                    classes, since there was a third composed of one specimen. As he went on into
                    the house the very cleanliness and order, contrasting so sharply with the dirt
                    of surrounding respectability, struck him offensively on the girl's behalf, the
                    giggling in the lower storey gave him a vicarious shock, and the obsequiousness
                    of his introduction into the higher one, where Chândni sat secluded, actually
                    made his cheek burn.
                ‘It can't hurt any man to know that he is loved.’
                He set aside the haunting words angrily, and began his task so soon as the
                    patchwork drapery at the door fell behind him, leaving him face to face with
                    white?robed salaaming grace.
                ‘See here, my sister, this is for the truth. 'Tis not often thy sort are asked
                    for it; but I ask nothing else. I will take nothing else.’
                Checked thus in her languid welcome to the unknown guest, Chândni looked
                    distastefully at the hundred?rupee note thrust into her hand, then at the giver;
                    though both were to her liking. The latter she recognised instantly, having seen
                    him among the party at Hodinuggur. So her seed
                    of slander had taken root already.
                ‘My lord shall have that which he requires, surely. Wherefore else are there such
                    as I?’
                The cynical truth of her answer showed him her wit at once, and he acknowledged
                    it frankly when, half an hour afterwards, he felt himself baffled by the calm
                    simplicity of her story. Most of it he had already heard, and the rest showed
                    still more unpleasant details to have raked up should the worst come to the
                    worst. Azizan, he was told, had been a palace lady, with whom George had had
                    clandestine meetings, over which he had first become mixed up with the intrigues
                    about the water. The key of the sluice had been sent from Simla, whether by the
                    Mem or the Miss, or the sahib himself, Chândni did not know, could not say. Was
                    she not telling the Huzoor the bare truth she knew to be true, and nothing
                    else?
                ‘And how much do you want to keep all this quiet?’ he asked calmly, when she had
                    finished. It was as well to know her price, at any rate.
                For an instant the immediate temptation to take the bird in the hand made the 
                        courte?
                        courtesan
                     san hesitate. Then she struck boldly
                    for higher game.
                ‘The pearls, Huzoor! The pearls, or my revenge!’ This man, with the cool, refined
                    face and the contempt which made her involuntarily remember the Miss sahib's
                    also, affected indifference now, and would most likely offer her some paltry
                    sum. She could afford to wait for the change which was sure to come; for she was
                    not in the least afraid of anything Lewis could do, and, without being
                    absolutely insolent, took care to show him the fact as she lolled about at her
                    ease, chewing betel ostentatiously. She had nothing to gain here by affecting
                    delicacy, so he might see her at her coarsest and worst; it contrasted better
                    with his brains.
                The result being that Lewis Gordon came into Gwen's Boynton's drawing?room for
                    his next interview looking depressed; partly because he had been riding through
                    a tepid shower?bath, for recurring rain had washed away the bright promises of
                    the morning and was falling drearily over the rank, dank grasses and beating
                    down the fringes of delicate ferns growing upon the dripping branches of the oak trees, until they lost shape and became
                    nothing but a green outline against the grey mist.
                Within, however, by the light of a blazing pine?wood fire, Mrs. Boynton looked
                    bright yet soft, like a pastel painting, or a figure seen in a looking?glass;
                    for she soon recovered from her emotions, and took pains to hide their effects
                    even from herself. So the fact that she had lain awake half the night wondering
                    if by chance Chândni's impudent lies had been prompted by any flaw in the
                    chain?armour of security which George and the flood had forged for her, did not
                    show in her face. For they were lies; even that tale of the dear lad's death,
                    which had given her such a shock at the time, was nothing but the vile woman's
                    wicked, cruel invention. Rose had evidently heard nothing and still knew nothing
                    of it; besides, Dan did not know, and even if he had wished to keep
                    the pain of such knowledge from her, Lewis, with his jealous blame, would have
                    been sure to point a moral; a pointless moral at best, since George could have
                    had no cause for despair. Had not the flood come to end even his anxiety?
                    unless, indeed, there was any truth in the
                    tale about the portrait. Yet why should truth be supposed in one incident when
                    causeless wicked lying was evident in all the others? No; it was an impudent
                    attempt at extortion, and must be met by denial. Therein lay safety, both for
                    her and for poor George Keene's memory, since the conspirators would never face
                    the evidence of those papers which they knew she held. So, as her cousin came in
                    she greeted him with a smile changing to sweet concern at his ill looks.
                ‘I have a headache,’ he replied curtly. ‘No wonder; the smells and general
                    abominations of the bazaar are enough to kill one, and I had to go down there.
                    Besides, I'm damp, and I've had no lunch. Isn't that a long enough catalogue of
                    ills? No, thanks; don't order anything for me. I'd rather have a cup of tea
                    by?and?bye.’
                It was the worst thing for him, he knew that. Nothing but a quiet cigar and a
                    man's drink would have restored his balance. But he told himself captiously that
                    he had been in a melodramatic atmosphere all the morning, and might as well go
                    through with it to the bitter end. He felt demoralised, and so, almost out of contrariety, put himself at a further
                    disadvantage by rushing at his fence.
                ‘Gwen,’ he began abruptly, ‘I've come to ask you for the truth.’ He did not hand
                    her a bank?note as he had to the other woman; yet the thought had crossed his
                    mind bitterly that one of sufficient value might be useful. He had set it aside,
                    of course, as utterly unworthy since, in common justice, he had no more right to
                    prejudge Gwen's implication than he had to prejudge Rose Tweedie's. There was,
                    no doubt, the fact of George Keene's suicide against the one; but that was no
                    new thing. She had been judged on that count before, and he had decided to save
                    her from the pain of knowing it; to that decision, also, he meant to keep if it
                    were possible.
                Gwen's heart gave a great throb; she understood in an instant that the crisis had
                    come sooner than she expected. Yet she was prepared for it.
                ‘I suppose Rose Tweedie’—she began coldly.
                ‘Yes; Rose Tweedie asked my advice, and I've been down to that woman in the
                    bazaar. She sticks to her story. So now I have come to you—’
                
                ‘If you had come to me first, Lewis,’ she interrupted with a vibration of real
                    anger in her voice, ‘I would have warned you not to waste your time in playing
                    Don Quixote at Rose Tweedie's bidding. The woman is an impostor, and should be
                    treated as such. I would have sent the police after her yesterday, had I thought
                    it wise to take even so much notice of her lies. And now you have been to see
                    her! It is too foolish—too annoying! And all because Rose went crying to you, I
                    suppose, about her lover. Her lover, indeed! You are very soft?hearted, Lewis!
                    Perhaps some day your desire to console will lead you into taking his
                    place.’
                He stared at her; that sort of thing being so unlike Gwen's usual sweetness; but
                    his surprise did not equal his confusion, while his common?sense showed him her
                    possible wisdom.
                ‘Miss Tweedie did not cry over her lover, I assure you,’ he began, feeling in
                    very truth that the young lady in question had meted out more blame than
                    sympathy; ‘and I did not choose to allow such tales of you to pass
                    unnoticed.’
                ‘So you listened to them again?’ retorted Gwen
                    in rising anger, which she wilfully exaggerated. ‘Listened to what a common
                    woman in the bazaar had to say of me! Really, I am obliged to you, Lewis! And
                    she, I suppose, told you that I had stolen the pearls and the pot, and then
                    taken it and a fresh bribe from poor George? Well, since you have come to me at
                    last for the truth, I tell you, as I told Rose—who, perhaps, did not repeat
                    it—that I have never seen the thing since the night of the storm at Hodinuggur.
                    So I have less to do with it than she, since she confesses it was sent to her,
                    and that she sent it back on the sly. Did she tell you that? and have you been
                    asking her for the truth also? Or am I the only one who has to be questioned
                    like that creature in the bazaar?’
                Gwen had never looked better than she did at that moment, with the unwonted fire
                    of real indignation lighting up her face, and Lewis Gordon felt vexed that it
                    awoke no thrill in him. Was he really allowing Rose Tweedie's open mistrust to
                    bias him? The idea made his reply more gentle than it might otherwise have
                    been.
                
                ‘Perhaps you are right to be angry with me,’ he said quietly. ‘I beg your pardon,
                    if I have hurt you; but indeed, it seemed best to me at the time. Perhaps, as
                    you say, it would have been better to wait a while;—until, for instance, I can
                    consult with Fitzgerald. I wired him to?day to come up on three days' urgent
                    private business. He knows a lot.’
                Gwen gave an odd sort of laugh, not unlike a sob, and her face softened.
                ‘I'm glad he is coming,’ she cried passionately; ‘very glad. He always
                    understands, and he knows.’
                Yes! he knew and trusted her—he would stand by her even if he knew that one fatal
                    mistake. Whereas Lewis would treat her as a Magdalen, as if she, Gwen Boynton,
                    were a fit subject for a penitentiary!
                ‘Yes,’ she repeated slowly, ‘I am glad he is coming. You did the right thing
                    there, Lewis, at any rate.’
                So, with this small consolation, he had to make his way back to give in his
                    report to the girl who had told him that she loved him. Another delicate task,
                    and he felt himself detestably awkward over
                    it, the more so because Rose herself met him as if nothing unusual had
                    occurred.
                ‘Well,’ she said eagerly, ‘what news?’
                He told her briefly that there was none. He had had three versions of truth—her
                    own, Chândni's, and Mrs. Boynton's—and there seemed nothing to be done save wait
                    for Dan's arrival. He might be able to throw some light on the subject—he was
                    the last person, at any rate, who was likely to do so.
                ‘You forget the girl—the girl of the portrait, I mean,’ suggested Rose quickly.
                    Lewis frowned.
                ‘She disappeared, they say, just before we reached Hodinuggur. I should like, by
                    the way, to see the picture, if you don't mind.’
                He stood looking at it in silence for some time.
                ‘And that, you say, was the face of your dream?’ he asked at last.
                ‘The face, the dress, the pot clasped so to her breast. I seem to grow more sure
                    of it every hour. And I am certain now it was she who said, “I am Azizan.”’
                ‘That sort of certainty grows upon one
                    unconsciously,’ he replied, after another pause. ‘I confess it is odd; but you
                    can hardly believe it really was the potter's daughter! She has been dead these
                    sixteen years. You think it was her ghost, perhaps; but did George paint the
                    ghost?’
                Rose stood silent, her hands clasped tightly.
                ‘Who knows?’ she said slowly. ‘One knows so little. When I think of it all—of
                    that strange old man with his refrain, “We come and go—we come and go,” I seem
                    to feel that odd, uncanny sense of helplessness which one has during a storm at
                    sea, when you realise that the waves are not moving on at all, but rise and
                    fall, rise and fall for ever in the same place. It is the ship which drifts
                    within their power, giving them their wrecker's chance once more. And now—you
                    will say that I am superstitious; but I almost regret that you should bring Mr.
                    Fitzgerald into this business at all. You remember the potter's measure? Think
                    of it, and how poor George himself—’
                She paused, her eyes full of tears.
                Lewis, watching her, told himself he would never understand women?folk. Here was
                        a girl, overflowing with fanciful
                    sentiment in some ways, who yet apparently had none to spare for the one subject
                    round which sentiment was supposed to cling—love and marriage. In addition, here
                    were two women, both of whom he desired to help, and yet they were at
                    daggers?drawing about the best method of giving that aid. If he pleased one, he
                    displeased the other; and anyhow, he got no comfort out of either.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIV
                ‘NAY! thou hast given me enough, oh Mizra sahib. More than a free woman
                    cares to have,’ said Chândni, with a shrug of her massive shoulders. ‘Thou hadst
                    thy chance to pay me fair.’
                Dalel Beg, clad in his European clothes, and perched in all the isolation of an
                    esteemed visitor in the cane?bottomed chair of state, felt he would like to be
                    on a level with those jeering lips as he used to be at Hodinuggur. Not for the
                    sake of desire only, or for the sake of revenge, but for a mixture of both. As
                    usual, the very audacity of her wickedness fascinated him, yet, now that
                    wickedness was directed against himself he could have strangled her for it.
                ‘Pay thee! How can I pay thee,’ he whimpered, ‘when those low?caste white
                    swindlers with whom I betted will not pay what
                    I have won? When those white devils of women turn the place into a museum until
                    every Parsee in the bazaar threatens to summon me to court?’
                It was not much more than a week since he had defied Chândni in the presence of
                    the said white devils; but the interval had not been pleasant. Beatrice Elflida
                    Norma's mamma knew all about Chândni's long years of hold on the Mizra Sahib,
                    and he was totally unaccustomed to the nagging of wifely jealousy. Besides,
                    something had happened which had opened his eyes to the danger of allowing the
                    courtesan to have a free hand. A proposal had been made by the Canal Department
                    to allow water to run permanently along the sluice?cut; the Rajah who owned the
                    land to the south, having spent a whole season at Simla in order to work the
                    oracle, and the flood having come opportunely as a warning to the experts that
                    it might be wise to provide a more satisfactory outlet for the surplus water.
                    Now, in this case, Hoddinuggur, which would benefit but little by the plan,
                    might by judicious application of the screw make the Rajah pay for its consent, as a considerable portion of its
                    best land would have to be taken up for various works. This sort of secret
                    intrigue, these almost endless ramifications of rights and dues, underlie the
                    simplest transactions in India, and are recognised by its people as an integral
                    part of administration. Besides, Hodinuggur itself, in lieu of compensation for
                    damage done—which for various reasons it had not yet claimed, one being a delay
                    on the part of the Rajah in paying the promised fee for the opening of the
                    sluice—might manage by the same judicious diplomacy to secure some trifling hold
                    on the water?supply; something, in short, which might be used as a screw for the
                    extortion of a perpetual, if small revenue. But for this, silence as to the past
                    was necessary. Such considerations, to European ears, may seem almost too
                    fine?drawn to be worth notice; but to Dalel Beg and Chândni they were quite the
                    reverse, for he came from a long line of courtiers born and bred in such
                    intrigues; men whose trade had passed with the corrupt courts of other days,
                    while the memory of it survived in their title. Diwans of Hodinuggur; not
                        Nawabs or Nizams, but Diwans, that is, in
                    other words, prime minister. And she? Every atom of her blood came from the
                    veins of those who for centuries had woven a still finer net of women's wit
                    around the intrigues of their protectors. It is this extraordinary strength of
                    heredity which, in India, makes the cheap tinkering of Western folk, who are
                    compounded of butchers, bakers, and candlestick makers, so exasperating to those
                    who have eyes to see. If English philanthropists would spend their motley
                    benevolence on the poor, the diseased, and the drunken of their own country, it
                    would be better both for it and for India, where the death?rate is no higher,
                    drunkenness is practically unknown, and poverty is neither unhappy nor
                    discontented.
                Thus Chândni and Dalel were well matched as she lolled back in her cushions with
                    a laugh.
                ‘So she spends money! Lo! since thou hast married a “vilayeti”
                    wife thou canst advertise, as the sahibs do, in the papers, that thou art not
                    responsible for her debts. There is no sense in stopping half way as thou hast
                    done. Thou shouldst have gone to a “mission” and been baptized instead of making that half?caste girl repeat the
                    “Kulma” on promise that thou wouldst not in future claim the right of the
                    faithful to other women. Yea! yea! I know the trick.’
                ‘If I have,’ muttered Dalel, vexed yet pleased at her boldness, her shrewdness,
                    ‘such promises are easily broken. Divorce is easy.’
                ‘If thou hast money to pay the dower to her people—not when thou hast none! Lo!
                    'tis a mistake to try new ways of wickedness instead of keeping to the old
                    ones.’
                So she dismissed him, feeling on the whole contemptuous over her adversaries so
                    far; the Miss Sahiba's arms had been strong, for sure, but the men were worth
                    nothing! nothing at all.
                Dan Fitzgerald, dangling his long legs disconsolately from Lewis Gordon's
                    office?table two days after, said as much himself. ‘The fact is, I ought to have
                    killed her; only I didn't feel up to it to?day, after my journey. Oh, you may
                    smile, Gordon!’ he went on more eagerly, his face losing some of its dejection
                    in his love of the extravagant, ‘but it's true. That sort of woman doesn't
                    belong to our civilised age; and we are absolutely at a 
                        dis?
                        disadvantage
                     advantage before her. There was I,
                    as the mad old potter said, with a hero's measure round the chest, driven to
                    words and threats of a policeman. I couldn't, even at the time, but think of
                    that old sinner Zubr?ul?Zamân and what her chance would have been with him—just
                    an order, a cry, and then silence. Sure, one feels helpless at times when one
                    stands face to face with that old world. What's the use of strength—what's even
                    the use of brains nowadays except to make money? There was I, with that woman, I
                    give you my word, at the end of her tether, but 'twas the hangman's rope to me
                    if I went a step closer, and so I didn't.’
                ‘If you didn't,’ remarked Lewis grimly, ‘there isn't a civilised man
                    who will; so we had better try something else. Still, unless that woman is
                    silenced, we must face an inquiry, and then the facts of poor Keene's death must
                    come out. By the way, Miss Tweedie knows them, but we have agreed to keep them,
                    if possible, from my cousin. There seemed no use—’
                ‘I'm glad of that,’ interrupted Dan, with a sudden quiver of his mouth. ‘I should
                    be sorry to have that memory spoilt.’
                
                He was pacing up and down the room now, his hands in his pockets, the brightness
                    of his face absorbed as it were by a frown.
                ‘Gordon!’ he said abruptly. ‘I'd give everything I possess if I could lay my
                    hands on that cursed pot. Not that it would satisfy the horse?leech's daughter
                    unless the contained the pearls—which isn't likely, for I believe the whole
                    story to be a myth. But the thought that it is somewhere visible, palpable to
                    the meanest fool on God's earth, is maddening. Or even if we could say to that
                    she?devil, “do your worst.” Oh! why didn't you send that wire sooner, and save
                    poor George from his needless death?’
                ‘Why didn't you tell the truth about it at first? you might as well ask that. It
                    would have been better, as it turns out, if you had; but who can tell? As it is,
                    I'm quite ready, as I told you before, to burke everything I can, in conscience;
                    but, so far as I can see, it will do no good. If that woman breaks silence, the
                    main facts must come to light.’
                ‘I wish I had killed her,’ said Dan regretfully.
                ‘And I wish she were dead,’ replied Lewis
                    cynically, ‘that is the difference between us. You are active, I'm passive, but
                    we don't either of us seem to be of much use.’
                That was the honest truth, and they had to confess as much to Gwen Boynton that
                    afternoon. She looked a little haggard as she listened even while she protested
                    bravely that in her opinion the vile creature would never dare to put her lies
                    to the proof. So they sat and played at cross purposes; for she could not tell
                    them of the papers she held in absolute disproof of what would be the first
                    accusation, and they wished if possible to save her from the knowledge of George
                    Keene's suicide. Perhaps if they had set their own feelings aside and told her
                    the truth, she might even then have confessed her lion's share in the blame. But
                    only perhaps; for she was a clever woman, capable of seeing that her confession
                    could do no good now, and that she had, as it were, lost her right to save poor
                    George from suspicion. Besides, she had brought herself to believe in the duty
                    of denial; for, like many another woman, she required a really virtuous motive
                    before she could do a really wrong thing; in sober fact— even in her worst aberrations from the truth—never
                    losing hold of a fixed desire to be amiable and estimable. To this
                    self?deception, as was natural, Lewis Gordon's half?hearted belief was gall and
                    wormwood, while Dan's wholesale confidence was balm indeed. She could not
                    refrain from telling him so when the former, pleading stress of work, left the
                    latter alone with her beside the cosy little tea?table glittering in the
                    firelight; for Gwen was one of those people who will never have been more
                    comfortable in body and soul than they are on their death?beds.
                ‘Now, don't spoil it all, dear, by wanting me to marry you to?morrow,’ she said
                    half?laughing, half?crying. ‘We are all too busy for such talk, and too sad—at
                    least I am. He was so good to me—you don't know how good. I shall break my heart
                    if this vile creature succeeds in sullying his memory.’
                ‘It will not be your fault, dear, if she does; that is one comfort.’
                A chance shot may hit the quarry truer than the best aim, and Gwen turned quickly
                    towards him with a little cry.
                ‘Dan! you will prevent it, won't you? You are
                    so clever, and, really, it is for my sake as well as for his. For my sake you
                    will, won't you?’
                ‘I do everything for your sake—you know that,’ he answered simply.
                Gwen stared at him as if she had seen a ghost. Perhaps she did; the ghost of a
                    dead boy who had said those very words to her in that very room not a month
                    ago.
                ‘Gwen I what is it?’ came Dan's voice sharply, anxiously. ‘What is the
                    matter?—tell me.’
                Yes! The past was repeating itself. He had begged her to tell him
                    also, and in her selfishness, her fear, she had yielded, and put a needless pain
                    into his life at its close. She would not yield again; in denial lay her
                    duty.
                ‘Nothing is the matter,’ she echoed, ‘save this—that you say we can do nothing. I
                    do not believe it. God will never let these lies prevail—He will never let my
                    poor lad's memory suffer—never, never!’
                If her mind could have been taken to pieces and strictly analysed as she gave
                    utterance to this burst of real feeling, it would have afforded fruitful study
                    to a whole college of psychologists. Yet the
                    mental condition described as ‘sitting in a clothes?basket and lifting yourself
                    up by the handles’ is quite common to humanity of both sexes, though women are
                    as a rule the greater adepts in the art. Mrs. Boynton was really a firm believer
                    in a Providence which was bound by many promises to help the virtuous, and
                    George, therefore, had a claim to its assistance. The fact that Providence might
                    possibly have appointed her as its instrument was a totally different affair,
                    and did not interfere with the confused good faith and good feeling which made
                    her voice thrill as she went on fervently, in answer to Dan's doubtful yet
                    admiring face.
                ‘Oh, you mayn't think so—you perhaps don't believe as I do, Dan, in “a Providence
                    which shapes our ends, rough?hew them as we will”—you don't—’
                ‘Don't I?’ he asked, catching fire, as it were, more from his own thoughts than
                    her words. ‘Oh, Gwen! my dear, it's little you know of me, then, if you think
                    that. Don't I see it?—who but the blind do not—in everything? Isn't it that
                    which makes me content to go on as I'm doing? Gwen! it's because I know that it is bound to come—that sooner or later
                    you will take my hands in yours as I take yours just now. Yes, Gwen! it's
                    Fate—but when will it be, my dear? When will it be?’
                She was never proof against this mood in the man, this tone in his voice.
                ‘Oh, Dan!’ she cried, in a petulance that was all feigned, ‘didn't I say you
                    would be asking me to marry you to?morrow if I was so rash as to tell you that
                    you were a comfort to me? As if that had anything to do with it.’
                ‘Sure it has everything to do with it!’ replied her lover fondly. The future, in
                    truth, gave him few fears: it was the present, with the chance of annoyance if
                    that venomous woman remain unscotched in the bazaar, which caused him anxiety.
                    On the other hand, it was the future over which Lewis Gordon frowned, as he sat
                    trying to make up his mind about his own feelings, for though the present was
                    was palpably unpleasant, it seemed clear that the future would be worse, since
                    they must face the possibility of a scandal boldly in the hopes that Chândni's
                    story would break down; except perhaps as regarded George, and he, poor lad, had brought it on himself. And
                    then, when all this was over, he—Lewis—was going to marry Mrs. Boynton. No doubt
                    about it; for it was too late now to judge her for that other fault—far too
                    late. He had condoned it with full knowledge of what he was doing, and the fact
                    that Rose Tweedie's subsequent scorn had awakened a tardy blame did not alter
                    the past. At the same time, he had an insane desire that Rose should be brought
                    to see this as clearly as he saw it. In fact, the idea of talking over the
                    matter with her, and perhaps taking her advice upon it, had an attraction for
                    him; and though he heaped contumely on himself for the mere thought, it lingered
                    insistently. It was partly that which made him pause to knock at her
                    sitting?room door on his way to the drawing?room before dinner. She would be
                    glad to have the last news of the miserable affair, he told himself, but in his
                    heart he knew that was not the real reason—that he himself scarcely knew what
                    the reason was. Reason? there was none! Only a foolish curiosity to understand
                    better what this icicle of a girl meant by love. It did not seem to hurt her, at any rate. But as he entered
                    to see her sitting by the fire, the reading?lamp on the table lighting up her
                    dress, but leaving her face in shadow, he seemed to forget all these thoughts in
                    the friendly confidence of her greeting.
                ‘I'm so glad you have come. I was wondering if you would. What news?’
                He shook his head. ‘None. We have all had our chance, and failed.’
                ‘Not all,’ she answered quickly, pointing to Azizan's portrait, which showed
                    dimly above the mantelpiece against which he leant. ‘You forget the girl—she has
                    not said her say.’
                The unreality, the strangeness of it all, struck him sharply, not for the first
                    time, as he replied after a pause—
                ‘And never will. She is dead. Fitzgerald managed to get that out of the woman
                    to?day. She must have been hidden away—as a punishment, most likely—in some
                    dungeon of the old tower, for her dead body was found among the ruins—by—by the
                    old potter. Yes! I know what you are thinking of; but that is impossible. He was
                    always searching about, you see, and so he was more likely than others to find anything that was to be found. It is
                    a coincidence, I admit; but the fact of the death seems undoubted. The woman let
                    it out in her anger—Fitzgerald is not a nice cross?examiner, I expect—and tried
                    to gloze it over afterwards. Perhaps it is as well. That story may be best
                    unknown.’
                ‘I don't agree with you,’ said Rose quickly. ‘I have been counting on her
                    help—perhaps more than I realised—and now that her chance has gone—’ The girl's
                    eyes filled with tears, and her voice failed for a moment, ‘it seems as if we
                    could do nothing more to save him.’
                ‘I'm afraid not. You see, once we begin to question outsiders we show our hand.
                    There is no alternative between the silence and defiance which Gwen advocates so
                    strongly, and a bold and open inquiry. In my opinion it is time for the latter.
                    You see, my cousin is not quite a fair judge. She does not know that Fitzgerald
                    and I have so far concealed George Keene's suicide, and that from purely
                    personal motives we, or at least I, cannot have this scandal sprung by an
                    outsider. He would take the risk, he says; but I, in my position, conceive that
                    it is not my duty to do so. He, however, has
                    suggested that we four shall meet and talk it over finally before I take any
                    action, so I took the liberty of asking Gwen to come over to?morrow morning. It
                    is Fitzgerald's last day, and something must be done before he goes down. I
                    don't see the use of this meeting myself—we have all, as I said, had our
                    chance—but it can do no harm, and it may satisfy Gwen—and you.’
                ‘I am satisfied already,’ she replied gently. ‘You could have done no more than
                    you have done; I see that now.’
                ‘I am glad,’ he began, and then stopped, realising that he was not in the least
                    glad of the evident finality in her meaning. Was she contented that things
                    should end as they had begun? Had her passionate interest in him died down with
                    his obedience to her orders? A sorry reward, surely! A most perplexing result of
                    his repentance!
                ‘I shall be glad,’ he corrected himself, almost angrily, ‘when we
                    can get out of this muddle. Of course I have heard before of such intrigues, but
                    I never came in personal contact with that sort of thing before. It is maddening. I scarcely seem to know whether we
                    are in the nineteenth century or the ninth. Ever since we went to Hodinuggur we
                    seem to have got mixed up in some antique dream; the whole thing is
                    absurd—scarcely credible.’
                As he spoke the dinner?bell rang, and he held the door open for her to pass from
                    the consideration of these things to the well?appointed table, worthy of a house
                    in Belgravia, where the dark?skinned, white?robed servants handed sherry with
                    the soup, and vinegar with the salmon quite as naturally as Jeames or John in
                    their plush liveries. But heredity was here also; Jeames or John's father may
                    have been a day labourer or a gentleman at large, but not one of these could not
                    have answered truthfully—‘Huzoor, my father was servant to so?and?so or
                    so?and?so in the great mutiny time, and his father served such and such a sahib
                    in the Sutlej campaign, or in Cabul, or somewhere else.’ Faithfulness or
                    unfaithfulness to salt being, of course, a different question; though that also
                    might possibly be one of heredity. Such thoughts strike one sometimes after
                    years of complacent blindness, and on this evening they increased the sense of unreality which had already taken
                    possession of Lewis Gordon. Nor did a remark of Colonel Tweedie's on his
                    daughter's improved looks during the past few days amend matters. He felt that
                    he might be living in that twenty?ninth century, when humanity may reasonably be
                    supposed to have educated itself out of some frailties as, in the necessary
                    glance at the young lady's face required by decorous assent, he met a perfectly
                    unconscious, happy smile, so full of friendly confidence, that a positive
                    gladness glowed at his heart that she should be content with him.
                Nevertheless he made one more effort to get back finally to the every?day world
                    by riding over to the club after dinner and listening to the gossip of the day.
                    But there was nothing wrong with the world; it was going on, he found, as usual.
                    He played a game or two of pool, talked gravely with Major Davenant over some
                    new rules intended to prevent such another fiasco as the last race?meeting,
                    heard the latest official canards, and listened more patiently than usual to
                    some boys—who had to go down from leave next day—bemoaning the general
                    beastliness of the country as a residence for
                    an English gentleman. It was only, so the verdict ran, fit for niggers.
                Yet even this demonstration that life in the main was commonplace as usual, did
                    not restore Lewis Gordon's general indifference. And the knowledge that this was
                    so made him more than ever determined to carry his point when next morning the
                    four met in Rose Tweedie's room, to settle the course of events.
                The rain after a downpour during the night had ceased, or, perhaps, had become
                    too light to make its way through the thick white mist which had settled down
                    like cotton?wool upon everything, blotting out the world. There was not a breath
                    of air, not a sound save occasionally a soft pit?pat, as the vapour condensing
                    on the roof dropped into the hearts of the rain lilies which fringed the
                    verandah with their upturned orange cups. Yet it was neither dark nor dull as on
                    a cloudy day. The whiteness of the mist was almost luminous, and through the
                    wide?set windows sent a faint glow, like that from newly?fallen snow, on the
                    faces of poor George Keene's four friends, and showed still more clearly on the even surface of Azizan's portrait as
                    it stood upon the mantel?shelf. Rose stood beside it, looking beyond everything
                    in the room, beyond the row of orange lilies, into the cotton?wool mist which
                    seemed bent on suffocating the house and its inhabitants. There was silence in
                    the room—the silence which comes to a discussion when the last objection has
                    palpably fallen through, and a conclusion absolutely satisfactory to no one
                    seems inevitable. Gwen, a flush of excitement on her cheek, lay back among the
                    cushions of her easy?chair, nervously turning and twisting the rings upon her
                    fingers. Dan Fitzgerald, who was seated close beside her, had evidently been the
                    last to speak, and was now leaning towards her, his eyes fixed with kindly
                    encouragement and sympathy on her face. Lewis Gordon, apart from the others, his
                    elbows resting on the table, looked half regretful, half resentful,—the look of
                    a man who knows he must take the initiative in a singularly disagreeable
                    duty.
                At last through the silence came Rose Tweedie's voice reluctantly, yet with a
                    sort of challenge in it: ‘I suppose that is settled, and that we can none of us suggest any other reason
                    why we should delay longer?’
                ‘I have told you before,’ broke in Mrs. Boynton, ‘that I have every reason to
                    believe that no action will be taken by the woman; that she will never court
                    inquiry.’
                ‘I did not mean that,’ replied Rose, still with the same note in her voice. ‘I
                    meant that if none of us have any further knowledge beyond what we have already
                    discussed, then Mr. Gordon's plan for a private yet open inquiry with my
                    father's knowledge seems best. I, for one, have none. I know nothing, absolutely
                    nothing, in favour of delay. Nothing that would prevent the possible danger to
                    George Keene's memory.’
                Lewis Gordon followed fast on her words in swift, vexed comprehension of her
                    challenge.
                ‘I fancy we are all able to say the same, Miss Tweedie. If we agree, I may have
                    to speak of something I should not otherwise mention, but it is no reason for
                    delay. On the contrary, it is a reason why open inquiry will be the safest, even
                    for George Keene's memory. I know nothing better;—I wish I did.’
                
                ‘Nor I,’ said Dan Fitzgerald, then paused, and rising from his chair crossed to
                    the open door, whence he looked out, as Rose had done, beyond the rain lilies to
                    the mist. ‘I know better than any of you what poor George was; I know better
                    than any of you what he did. If this is settled, I, too, will have to tell
                    something to his credit; something that will make inquiry the better for him.
                    Yet I'd give all I possess to save the necessity for it. But I'm lost,—’ he
                    stretched his hands out impulsively into the mist—‘lost, as one might be out
                    yonder—lost, as the lad's own explanation is lost in the mystery of death. It's
                    hard to say so, George, but I can't help it.’
                He spoke as if to some one out of sight, and Gwen Boynton sate up suddenly,
                    nervously, with a scared look in her eyes.
                ‘I think you are all wrong,’ she said querulously. ‘The woman must know that
                    proof is against her story; but you will not believe it, and so I cannot help
                    it. I cannot, indeed.’
                Her voice died away to a sort of sigh, and she sank back again, clasping her
                    hands tightly together. Rose let hers fall from its grip on the mantel?shelf.
                    Dan's tall figure leant more loosely against
                    the lintel, and Lewis Gordon mechanically turned the pages of a book lying
                    beside him on the table. The tension was over, and the relief of decision, even
                    of helpless decision, held them silent in the silence for the moment. They had
                    done their best. They had played their part in the strange play.
                Then suddenly out of the mist came a quavering, chanting voice—
                
                    ‘It was a woman seeking something
                    Through day and night—’
                
                ‘Listen!’ cried Dan, his face ablaze. Rose's hand went up again to the picture
                    hurriedly, and Lewis started to his feet; only Gwen looked from one to the other
                    bewildered: 
                        ‘O'er hill and dale seeking for something.’
                     The voice grew clearer as if the singer was toiling up the unseen path
                    below the lilies.
                
                    ‘Foul play! foul play!—look down and decide.’
                
                ‘The mad potter!’ cried Dan, with wonder in his tone.
                ‘Azizan! it is her turn at last,’ cried Rose, with a hush in hers, which sent a
                    thrill through Lewis Gordon—though he only said prosaically—
                
                ‘I'll go and see who it is.’
                But Dan had forestalled the thought, and, vaulting the railings, had disappeared
                    into the mist, whence they could hear him hallooing down the path to the unseen
                    singer as they stood waiting by the lilies. Then came a quick greeting, a low
                    reply, and so, clearer and clearer—though they could see nothing—every syllable
                    of eager questioning and slow answer until, as if from behind a veil, the
                    strange couple stepped into sight—Dan, eager, excited, towering above the bent,
                    deprecating figure of the old potter.
                They had heard so much, those three in the verandah, that Rose without a pause
                    could step forward and strike at the very root of the matter with the question,
                    ‘What is it? What is it that you want of me?’
                The shifty, light eyes settled on her face with a look of relief before the old
                    man bent to touch her feet.
                ‘Madr?mihrbân,’ he said. ‘Madr?mihrbân—that is well!’
                He was still breathless from his swift climb beside Dan's long stride, and, as he
                    straightened himself again, his long supple
                    fingers, busied already about a knotted corner in the cotton shawl folded round
                    him, trembled visibly.
                ‘Lo, I sent it before,’ he went on in low excuse; ‘but it returned, as all things
                    return at Hodinuggur. Then she was vexed and could not rest. “Send it back! send
                    it back,” she cried all night long. Pity of God! what a fever; but now she
                    sleeps sound—’ He paused, to fumble closer at the knot.
                ‘You mean Azizan, your daughter?’ suggested Rose softly, while the others stood
                    silent, listening and looking, the whole world seeming to hold nothing for them
                    save this tall girl with her bright, eager face, and that bent old man trying to
                    undo a knot.
                ‘Huzoor—Azizan!’ came the quavering voice. ‘I looked for her so often till the
                    Mâdr mihrbân came. Then I found her with the pot clasped to her breast, but the
                    bad dreams would not let her sleep. “It is not mine; it is hers.” It kept her
                    awake always. So when I found her again, lying asleep by the river with it still
                    in her bosom, I said to myself, “I will not set a writing on it, and put it in
                    the box with a slit as I did last time,
                    trusting it to God knows who, after the new fashion. I will take it myself in
                    the old fashion and give it to the Mâdr mihrbân's own hands, and pray her hold
                    it fast so it return not to wake the child; for she sleeps sound at last in the
                    dust of her father's.”’
                The knot was undone. The shaking fingers held the Ayôdhya pot for a second, the
                    white glare of the mist shining in a broad blaze of light upon its intense
                    glowing blue. The next it had slipped from the potter's hand and lay in
                    fragments on the ground!
                Still fragments of sapphire colour—moving fragments of milky white, rolling
                    hither and thither like drops of dew on a leaf seeking a resting?place for their
                    round lustre.
                Pearls!—the Hodinuggur pearls!
                And Gwen's voice, with a triumphant ring in it, became articulate above the old
                    man's cry of distress and the low exclamations of the others.
                ‘So Azizan stole them, after all!’
                Rose turned on her sharply. ‘Who knows? This much is certain, she has brought
                    them back, and saved George when we could not.’
                ‘Yes! she has saved him,’ assented Dan, ‘we have that she?devil on the hip
                    now!’
                
                Lewis Gordon stood silent a moment; be had grown very pale. ‘You are both right,
                    I expect,’ he said quietly. ‘It settles—everything.’
                Gwen drew a long breath of relief, but Rose seemed lost in thought.
                ‘No! not everything,’ she said absently, half to herself. ‘It does not tell us
                    why George shot himself.’
                She scarcely knew she spoke aloud; she had forgotten everything but the dead
                    boy.
                ‘Shot himself!’ The words came back to her in a sort of cry.
                        ‘Shot himself! What do you mean? What does she mean?’
                Gwen stood as if petrified before those regretful faces. Then, as the truth
                    struck at her, beating down her shield of self?deception, she turned at last,
                    forgetful of all else. to the shelter of Dan's kind arms. ‘Dan! Dan! it isn't
                    true—it can't be true! say it isn't true.’
                He drew her closer to him, looking down into her agonised face with a perfect
                    passion of tenderness and kissed it; forgetful, in his turn, of everything save
                    that she had come to him at last.
                ‘It is true, my darling; he did it to save me
                    and you. Gwen! Gwen! it wasn't your fault—My God! she has fainted!’
                ‘I'm sorry,’ began Rose, feeling paralysed by surprise, but Dan's kind smile was
                    ready even in his distress.
                ‘Don't worry. It's best over, for I must have told her. You see we have been
                    engaged for years, and George knew it. If I carry her to your room, Miss Rose,
                    she will be better there. 'Tis the shock, and she was so fond of him, dear
                    heart.’
                Lewis Gordon, left alone in the verandah while another man before his very eyes
                    carried off the woman to whom he supposed himself to be engaged, felt that the
                    world had broken loose from its foundations altogether. So that was the
                    explanation! And then a low murmur of moaning from the potter arrested his
                    attention, which, as is so often the case after a shock, had lost its airt and
                    become vagrant.
                The old man, still crouched beside the fragments of the Ayôdhya pot, was rocking
                    himself backwards and forwards, and muttering to himself, ‘She will be angry;
                    the Mâdr mihrbân will be angry, and then Azizan will not sleep.’
                Lewis walked up to him and laid his hand reassuringly on the thin, bent
                    shoulders. ‘I don't think the Mâdr mihrbân will be angry. I'm almost sure she
                    won't.’ His own words made him smile, until, as he looked at the old man's
                    shifty, bright eyes raised to his doubtfully, he remembered the young sad face
                    which George had painted. ‘And Azizan is asleep,’ he said gently;
                    ‘she will not wake again.’
                As he stooped to gather up the jewels his eyes were dim with unwonted tears—why,
                    he scarcely knew.
                When Rose came back ten minutes after, leaving Gwen to Dan's kind consolations,
                    she found Lewis leaning over the railings looking at the rain lilies through his
                    eyeglass as if it had been a microscope. He turned to her with the air of a man
                    who has made up his mind.
                ‘You thought I was engaged to my cousin, Miss Tweedie,’ he said. ‘So did I.
                    Apparently I was mistaken. So let us set that aside, once and for all, and think
                    over more important matters. There is no lack of other surprises, thank
                    Heaven.’
                
                The semi?cynicism of his words did not sit ill on him, and Rose recognised that
                    he had certainly chosen the most dignified way out of the difficulty. At the
                    same time it left her free, unexpectedly free, to consider the position as an
                    outsider, and all involuntarily, yet naturally enough, her first thought
                    expressed itself in words:
                ‘I wonder what father will say?’
                This was too much both for temper and dignity, fortunately, also for humour. He
                    gave her one indignant look, then relaxed into a smile.
                ‘Really, Miss Tweedie, in this Comedy of Errors I am only responsible for my
                    part; and that, believe me, is rather a sorry one.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXV
                WHETHER Lewis Gordon spoke truth or not regarding the part he had to
                    play, there could be no doubt that Dan found his anything but sorry. A subdued
                    sort of radiance softened yet brightened the man as he came out to ask Rose for
                    the loan of her dandy, Mrs. Boynton being anxious to get home
                    as soon as possible. There seemed no need for words; the situation explained
                    itself, and even Lewis looking at his rival's eager face, could not help
                    acknowledging that Dan was more likely to give Gwen the support she evidently
                    needed than he was. Besides, the sudden change for the future seemed lost sight
                    of in that, which the opportune arrival of the Ayôdhya pot had on the present,
                    and on Chândni's impudent claim. It was of course clear evidence against the
                    truth of the story so far as Gwen was concerned, but whether it would prevent
                        the woman raking up the true facts of
                    George Keene's death, out of sheer wanton malice, was another thing. Lewis felt
                    himself rather helpless before the phenomenon of such a nature as hers, and
                    confessed as much when Dan came racing back, breathless and excited after seeing
                    Mrs. Boynton safely home, for a council of war. He brought a quick decision and
                    intuition with him. The sluice had been opened by treachery of course, and now
                    that he was free to speak of his engagement, Dan told the story of the open
                    locket, which to him seemed proof?positive that George had voluntarily taken the
                    blame on himself when thrown off his balance by the discovery that the happiness
                    of the man and the woman he loved best in the world depended on Dan's getting
                    his promotion. How the sluice had been opened was another matter. Chândni had
                    always said by means of a key made after an impression sent from Simla; but this
                    was manifestly impossible unless some servant had done it. Indeed he had never
                    paid much attention to this assertion, for the woman in making it had
                    contradicted herself more than once, and evidently had no definite story as to how the impression had been secured. In
                    his own mind he had decided that the key itself had been stolen from the boy
                    while he slept so heavily, and that the knowledge that this was so had had its
                    share in bringing about his rash act. So that even if the real facts came out,
                    nothing beyond carelessness could be laid to George's charge, now that the
                    potter was there to prove that Azizan had had the Ayôdhya pot all the time, and
                    that they were there to prove that the pearls had remained in the pot. So much
                    for Chândni and the only possible cause of further action—a woman's wanton
                    cruelty. For the rest, the old Diwan was dead, Khush?hâl seemed to be out of it,
                    and Dalel had everything to lose and nothing to gain by a scandal. Finally,
                    these intrigues were always as a house of cards; remove one support and the
                    whole structure disappeared.
                ‘Nevertheless,’ said Dan, looking across the table with a grim smile, ‘I'm not
                    going to take you down as a witness to my interview with that she?devil this
                    afternoon. You are too fine for the work, and that's the fact.’
                ‘Can I lend you anything peculiarly 
                        bar?
                        barbaric
                     baric in the way of a knife?’ asked
                    Lewis. ‘I've a Malay crease in my room which fills most people with terror,
                    though personally I should funk a woorâli dart more than anything.’
                ‘Ah! you may jeer; but 'tis true. Sure! our fineness is at the bottom of half our
                    mistakes in this country. Even in our kindness we treat these people as we would
                    like to be treated ourselves—a poor philanthropy compared to treating them as
                    they would like to be treated. And when we come to mere justice! Why, we might
                    as well give a child who has disobeyed his mother the right to appeal against
                    her in court. What chance would the child have to begin with, and then what good
                    would it do? and what good is our complicated system of procedure save to put
                    power into the hands of the educated few who naturally clamour for more? But
                    there! This has nothing to do with Chândni. She wouldn't care a tinker's damn
                    for what you'd say to her, because you would be regulating yourself by codes and
                    sections instead of by the way she is made. I won't. I don't mind stooping to
                    her level to get my will. So let me go with the old mad potter and his eyes, and
                    see if between us we can't make a settlement.
                    And then, please God, we will have done with the whole bad dream from beginning
                    to end. So if you have three thousand rupees you can spare on a loan, I'll just
                    have them handy in my pocket as a salve to her wounded feelings when I've got my
                    own way.’
                What really happened at the interview Dan resolutely refused to say. On his
                    return from the bazaar he asked for a whisky and soda and a hot bath to take the
                    taste of it out of soul and body. Yet he returned triumphantly with a written
                    declaration signed by Chândni, stating that she herself had stolen the key from
                    George while he slept.
                ‘It isn't true, of course,’ said Dan with a rueful look at Lewis, ‘but upon my
                    soul, no one could tell if it is, or not. My mind seemed a vast cobweb with
                    lines going everyway into the outside world, but all beginning in that woman,
                    and the only way was to smash through it. She has done worse things—that's one
                    comfort. Maybe the pearls should have gone back to Hodinuggur direct, but she
                    will make her bargain there, never fear, and by God they deserve—’
                
                He broke out then with curses into the tale of Azizan's birth, which it seemed
                    had been his strong card—that and the potter's eyes. He had played the one
                    against the other till he wormed the story out of his enemy, while the old man
                    waited below, ready, if Dan failed to be told the truth, to bring his evil
                    glance to bear on the question. That fear had really settled the matter; she had
                    acknowledged the part Azizan had played in bringing her plans to naught, and
                    confessed the wisdom of dancing to a different tune in the future.
                ‘We parted on the best of terms. She offered me cinnamon tea and fritters, and I
                    took some as a sign of peace,’ said Dan with a shudder. ‘And now I must be off
                    and tell poor Gwen 'tis all settled for ever.’ He lingered a moment as he rose,
                    to add with a half shy, half happy smile, ‘Were you very much surprised, old
                    man?’
                ‘Very,’ replied Lewis with dignity. But Dan still lingered.
                ‘I wonder what on earth the Colonel will say?’ he remarked apprehensively after a
                    pause.
                Then Lewis laughed; he could not help it. And
                    actually the idea of playing second fiddle to Colonel Tweedie's disappointment
                    in the eyes of the world, helped him materially in the interview which he had
                    with his cousin next morning. Even without this, however, he would have felt it
                    difficult to be severe, for he found her full of remorse and self?abasement;
                    rather vague, perhaps, but still real. She would never forgive herself, she
                    said, not so much for her indecision about Dan, for she had always loved him,
                    and Lewis was well quit of her selfish regard. No! it was about poor George! She
                    had sided with Simla in turning the boy's head—she had made too much of him and
                    behaved most unwisely—really Lewis must let her say what she knew to be true—she
                    had been over friendly, over confidential, and had asked him to do too much for
                    her. All this and his foolish fancy about being the keeper of Dan's conscience,
                    of which the latter had told her, had been too much for the dear, dear, lad's
                    kind, sensitive heart. Then the terrible home?coming after all the pleasure and
                    spoiling! Was not that enough, more than enough, to upset the balance? She was
                    so insistent on this point that Lewis had to
                    confess his assent to it, and finally went away feeling that she had more heart
                    than he had given her credit for in the past, and that he might even be in a
                    measure responsible for not having appealed to this better nature while he had
                    the chance. Dan seemed to have done it successfully, for she had evidently given
                    up all thoughts of a mercenary marriage. He understood her, she said
                    plaintively, he knew her faults and yet he loved her; while Lewis—he must excuse
                    her for saying so—had always treated her as if she had no heart, no sentiment;
                    had always committed the unpardonable mistake of making her remember that she
                    did not love him. Of course she had behaved abominably to everybody—far worse
                    than they would allow, for they were all too good for her—but in the future she
                    would have Dan, who was a tower of strength to her.
                In fact, like many another woman of her type—many a man also—Gwen Boynton had
                    taken refuge from the greater remorse in the lesser one—if indeed there was a
                    greater one?—if indeed the real limit of her sinning had not been that
                    over?confidence to which she had confessed. Not in detail truly; still she had confessed it with tears to Dan, and he
                    had forgiven her en masse; as, no doubt, he
                    would forgive in detail if she had thought it right to tell him what she had
                    told George. But what right had she to put this pain into another man's life, or
                    speak of that vague fear which even Chândni's confession of having stolen the
                    key would not smother utterly? It would be worse than foolish! it would be
                    wicked; and this dreadful doubt was her cross, her punishment, which she
                    thoroughly deserved for doing as she had done. And when she had got thus far,
                    remorse was once more in a clear open channel where it could spread itself out
                    and lose its chill under the sunshine of Dan's kind consolations.
                Thus it really turned out that, after all, the person most upset by the
                    unexpected dénouement of affairs was Colonel
                    Tweedie.
                ‘Engaged for years,’ he said angrily, in reply to his daughter's information.
                    ‘Well! I am surprised. A most extraordinary proceeding which
                    er—er—complicates—the—er—If you had said “of late,” I might have seen some sense
                    in it, for during the last week or so even Gordon, who is generally to be relied
                        upon, has been absent over his work—er—not
                    to say—er—somewhat negligent. And of course being his
                    cousin—the—er—interest—’
                Rose hastened to confess that the engagement had only as it were, been a definite
                    one during—here she hesitated a little—the last few days. Which tribute to his
                    perspicacity soothed the Colonel's dignity, and encouraged him to further
                    ventures in the seer's path by a suggestion that no doubt his daughter's
                    improved appetite and appearance, which he had observed during the same period,
                    was due to the proverbial interest which women took in the matrimonial affairs
                    of their neighbours. Though for his part he must may that the friendly
                    admiration he had had for Mrs. Boynton had been very considerably impaired
                    by—er—the lack of judgment she had displayed in engaging herself to an assistant
                    engineer, a man whose promotion, he believed, could not possibly come before the
                    following July—if then. He went off to consult the departmental lists with
                    portentous gloom, leaving his daughter defenceless before the truth. Certainly
                    she had been much happier since Lewis had known her feeling for him, and what is more, Mrs. Boynton's decision in favour
                    of Dan was a great relief in one way, though in another it was
                    disturbing—confusing; for despite her theories Rose felt that the fact of his
                    freedom to make other ties did make a difference in her relations with Lewis
                    Gordon. It ought not to do so, of course; she was angry with herself for
                    admitting the fact, but she was totally unable to juggle with realities, or
                    escape, crab?like, from a difficulty sideways. No thought of marriage or what
                    she was pleased to call sentimental rubbish had marred the self?forgetfulness of
                    that unpremeditated appeal she had made to her belief in him. No such thought
                    existed even now, and that the fear of it should creep in was intolerable,
                    absurd. No! she must feign the virtue of unconsciousness, even if she had it
                    not, and by an increase of friendly confidence, combined with a strict attention
                    to prose, prevent the awkwardness of the position from falling on innocent
                    Lewis, and show him clearly that the altered situation had made no change in
                    her, yet was not expected to make any change in him. Only by these means could
                    she show him, what was really the truth, that
                    her past avowal of interest was not mere sentiment.
                Lewis, for his part, also tackled the position with a boldness which he had
                    denied to himself while he was still engaged to his cousin, still smarting under
                    the curiously mixed sensations which the knowledge of the girl's real feelings
                    had aroused. Then he had felt bound to conventional modes of thought, and, to
                    tell truth, had been more or less afraid lest on inquiry a sentimental love for
                    Rose might pop up somewhere like a Jack?in?the?box. For her confession had
                    affected him in a perfectly incomprehensible way, and the only other explanation
                    of it he had been loth to admit, since it ran counter to all his pet theories.
                    What feeling could there be between a man and a woman save the one feeling? This
                    warmth at his heart when he thought of her praise, this pain at the thought of
                    her blame, could only be the old, old story; and yet he had been in love before,
                    and this was not the same experience. Well, it might be milk?food suited to
                    babes and women, but it was not strong meat for strong men; withal it was
                    strangely satisfying, strangely final, so that
                    when a return to commonplace diet became possible, he found himself in two minds
                    about taking to it. She evidently had but one; she evidently had given him all
                    she intended to give, and the only return he could make was by showing her that
                    he did understand this, and that he did not think it necessary to salve over her
                    wounded modesty by making love to her. Wounded modesty! The very thought seemed
                    an insult. He could not agree with her theories altogether, but he could at
                    least respect them.
                So for the next month, while Gwen was slowly recovering her shock, and all Simla
                    was divided into factions over the surprise of her engagement to penniless Dan
                    Fitzgerald, a very pretty little comedy was being enacted in the big house where
                    Rose, as hostess, treated Lewis Gordon as a friend, and he returned the
                    compliment in kind. There was absolutely no humbug, no effort about it at all.
                    They were not in love with each other, they were not restless ‘or moody’ or
                    excited, but absolutely content and happy with things as they were. A state of
                    affairs accentuated by the relief from anxiety, the improving weather, and
                        the charming gaiety and verve of the society in which they lived.
                Thus it happened that Rose Tweedie had her chance of being wooed in the only
                    possible way in which girls of her type can be wooed. One sees dozens of them
                    now?a?days in society; one will see more and more year by year, as the unnatural
                    disproportion in the number of the sexes tends to intensify the present
                    seclusion of the nicest girls from the men. It is not the fault of the latter.
                    In a bevy of several hundred young ladies, the fortunate possessor of the
                    handkerchief naturally throws it at some of those who press forward into
                    individuality, or at some fair face which even a crush cannot hide. So the
                    choice for a wife falls on beauty or brass. The latter may be too hard a term,
                    yet the girls who are likely to make the most faithful wives, the most devoted
                    mothers, are not those who are the readiest to attract and assent. On the
                    contrary they do not fall in love, and men have no time to give them friendship.
                    Friendship! They are engaged—nay, married—before the mere thought of such a
                    thing crops up.
                So the younger generation of women is rapidly dividing itself into the girls who
                    dress and the girls who don't dress. In other
                    words, those willing to attract men by one certain if seamy side of their
                    natures, and those who are not willing. Who does not know the opposite extremes
                    of these two factions? The girl who forces you instinctively to think of a
                    looking?glass, and the girl who makes you wonder if there be such a thing in her
                    room. The girl with not a hair out of place, and the girl with a hiatus between
                    her soul and her body, as the feminine phrase runs. Rose belonged outwardly to
                    neither factions, yet in her heart she strenuously resented the old?fashioned
                    theory that marriage was the larger half of a man's life and the whole of a
                    woman's. Truthfully, though she was three?and?twenty, she had never felt the
                    slightest desire to marry anybody, not even Lewis, and she felt in consequence
                    proportionally grateful to him for behaving, at any rate, as if he believed the
                    fact.
                Yet, even so, they sometimes found each other out, as for instance one day when
                    he came back from his cousin's full of unexpected news. Dan Fitzgerald had sent
                    in his resignation to the Department, and accepted an offer of employment from
                    Australia.
                
                ‘I'm as glad,’ said Lewis heartily, ‘as if I had had the chance myself; partly
                    because I couldn't make anything of it! Brown—that is the man who has wired for
                    him—was out here contracting one of the big railway bridges. A bloated mechanic;
                    began life as a riveter sort of fellow, but with a knack of making money and a
                    keen eye beyond belief. I remembered his telling me that Dan was too good for
                    us, and that if ever he came across a job in which he wanted help, he would try
                    and steal him. This is some huge irrigation scheme—private—down South. If Dan
                    succeeds, and he will if any one can, there will be millions in it.’
                ‘I suppose your cousin is delighted?’ said Rose.
                ‘Gwen? Never saw a woman more relieved in my life. For, mind you, though she is
                    awfully fond of Dan—fonder than I personally should have thought she could have
                    been of any one—the idea of the poverty was telling on her. You know it
                        is absurd to think of her as an assistant engineer's wife. It
                    is really not an environment in which she was likely to shine, and when all is
                    said and done on the romantic side people ought to consider 
                        sur?
                        surroundings
                     roundings in making a settlement for
                    life. Besides, I am sure she is relieved to get away from us all and make a
                    fresh start. She feels it more than I should have expected.’
                ‘Mr. Gordon,’ said Rose suddenly, ‘I'm very sorry I judged her so harshly
                    that—that time. I've wanted to say so often; but then it seemed
                    foolish. As if it could have mattered what I said or thought.’
                ‘I don't think it did really matter,’ he replied frankly. ‘Rather the other way
                    round, I expect. Yet I doubt if you did judge her as harshly as she judges
                    herself now; so it is far better she should leave all these associations behind.
                    If he and she had had to go inspecting at Hodinuggur, or even if she had to meet
                    Dalel Beg and his wife—did I tell you I saw her at the vice?regal squash
                    yesterday, a perfect child in the most awful get?up?—why, then, it would revive
                    the old affair. And if, by chance’—he paused a moment. ‘One never knows what
                    mayn't crop up, and Dan is a queer chap in some ways. He works by instincts, as
                    it were, and hitherto they have led him right. If they didn't, and he found it
                    out, I don't know what mightn't happen. He is
                    not what I call a very safe man unless he is successful. So they are both lucky
                    to get out of the uncongenial atmosphere which Government service is to him and
                    poverty is to her. They start in smooth water, and I must buy my
                    wedding?present, for they are to be married next month.’
                ‘So soon?’
                ‘He has to leave at once. The wedding is to be at Rajpore after we all go down.
                    No bridesmaids, and I'm best man. If you want to know the wedding dress, ask
                    Gwen; she is sure to have settled it long ago. Women always do.’
                ‘I haven't,’ protested Rose hastily. ‘I shall be married in my every?day
                    things.’
                She tried hard to be grave while Lewis roared with laughter, but in the end she
                    joined in the joke against herself. For they never quarrelled now. What was
                    there to quarrel about?
                It was on another of these pleasant peaceful days, that he came to lunch, with
                    the news that Dalel Beg was even now detaining her father by abject apologies
                    for past old?style misdemeanours at Hodinuggur, and profuse promises that in
                    future it would be the abode of all the
                    civilised virtues. Khush?hâl Beg it appeared had died of apoplexy, brought on no
                    doubt by the unrestrained orgies with which the fat man had celebrated his
                    accession, and in consequence Dalel was king.
                ‘I don't quite understand it all,’ he said thoughtfully. ‘He is a fool, and yet
                    he is playing his cards well. Do you know, I shouldn't be at all surprised to
                    hear that Chândni was back again as chief adviser. She is a very clever woman.
                    It seems that there is a scheme on foot for establishing stud farms or grazing
                    paddocks for Government remounts. It is supposed to be cheaper and better in the
                    end to buy them as yearlings and let them run loose, instead of being tethered
                    heels, heads, and tails, in native fashion. And as the water supply is to be
                    constant at Hodinuggur now, Dalel proposes that Government should utilise some
                    of his waste land there, and put him in charge, or partly in charge. Of course
                    it would bring him in a steady income if he gets his finger in the pie.’
                ‘He ought to get nothing,’ interrupted Rose hastily; ‘I believe he was at the
                    bottom of all that intrigue. We shall never know what went on exactly, but there was intrigue, and that
                    sort of thing should be punished.’
                ‘Undoubtedly; but as I said before, Dalel is a fool—except about a horse. It was
                    the old man and Chândni; they belonged to that age. This man tries to break the
                    Ten Commandments in two languages, and misses the idiom in both. But he does
                    know the points of a horse, and as Government must keep up these old families
                    and try to civilise them, it is as well to get some work out of them.’
                ‘Hodinuggur civilised! I can't imagine it,’ echoed Rose. ‘When I think of the old
                    potter, and that mirrored room on the roof—of Azizan and the Ayôdhya pot—it
                    seems like some old dream of life into which we nineteenth century folk strayed
                    by mistake.’
                ‘With disastrous results,’ put in Lewis thoughtfully. ‘Well! with half the
                        dramatis personæ of the play dead, and the
                    other half married, it ought to have come to an end now like a decently behaved
                    melodrama. Not a very moral one, I'm afraid, Miss Tweedie, and virtue must be
                    its own reward.’
                ‘What do you mean?’ she asked.
                ‘You and I have been left out of the prizes
                    altogether; but then, as the potter said, we didn't belong to his world.’
                ‘I wish you had not reminded me of that scene,’ she interrupted hastily. ‘I
                    cannot help thinking of how Mr. Fitzgerald sat smiling at me while the old man
                    measured him; just as George did when he measured himself, and he is dead.’
                ‘What a woman you are when all is said and done!’ he replied, smiling at her.
                    ‘Still I do think that poetic justice has not been meted out all round. Gwen,
                    for instance, has everything she wants, and I am out in the cold.’
                ‘Do you feel out in the cold?’ asked Rose aggressively.
                He hastened to assure her that on the contrary he was quite warm and comfortable,
                    but in spite of this the conversation languished till Colonel Tweedie came in,
                    full of his intention of recommending Dalel Beg's plan strongly to the
                    authorities.
                To say, however, that it was Dalel Beg's was, as Lewis Gordon had suspected, to
                    credit that gentleman with too much sense. It was Chândni's. When Dan Fitzgerald
                    had left her after partaking in friendly fashion of cinnamon tea, she had put the pearls away in a safe place, and
                    set herself, as she had been doing ever since she came to Simla, to amuse
                    herself. She had looked after Dan as he rode away without the least malice,
                    saying that there was a man indeed; one of the old sort like the Diwans. If he
                    had had her in the old days, say at Hodinuggur, there would just have been one
                    order, and then silence. She nodded her head and smiled over the thought. But
                    now she had three thousand rupees and the pearls. She could not sell them of
                    course, could not at present let any one know she had them. They were too well
                    known, these Hodinuggur pearls, for Chândni to traffic in them without fear of
                    being accused of theft. By and by, perhaps, she might trade them off on Dalel;
                    but nothing of that sort was safe as long as Khush?hâl was alive. So long too,
                    as they thought the mem had them they would not dare to move in the matter, now
                    that there was all this talk of a permanent water?supply; for Chândni, in the
                    wooden?balconied house at Simla, heard all the latest talk, and had quite a bevy
                    of respectable native gentlemen who drank sherbets at her expense. She heard also from a friend at court of this taking up
                    of waste land, and as she listened to all the stir of intrigue after this thing
                    and that thing, felt a pang of regret for that vanished dream of some day being
                    a motive?power in Hodinuggur. This court?life was as the breath of her nostrils,
                    and if she had been in the place of that half?caste girl down in the house with
                    the dahlias, she would not have been half starved and beaten; for if bazaar
                    rumour said sooth, Dalel Beg had carried his occidental estimate of the
                    marriage?tie to this almost incredible length.
                Then one day, after a rich Hindu contractor had roused her wrath by claiming her
                    more or less as his special property, by reason of the money he had chosen to
                    lavish on her, came the news of Khush?hâl Beg's death in the odour of court
                    sanctity. She could imagine it all down in the ruined palace out in the
                    desert—the old ways, the old etiquette; poverty?stricken may be, yet still
                    courtly. And why, in these pushing days when fat pigs like that Hindu made
                    money, should they remain poverty?stricken? yet even so, it was better in a way
                    to be Chândni of Hodinuggur, than Chândni of a bazaar, especially as one grew
                    older.
                
                That same afternoon a patchwork?covered dhooli went jolting down to the house
                    with the dahlias, which was a miserable spot now; deserted, forlorn. A miserable
                    room also, whence the indignant Parsees had reft the French clocks and the
                        bric?à?brac. A most miserable pair of
                    women too, reduced to cooking their own food at the drawing?room fire, lest
                    their over?looking neighbours might see them in the degradation of the
                    cook?room—since the deepest degradation of all in Eurasian eyes is to be
                    servantless.
                ‘Don't be a fool,’ said Chândni to Mrs. D'Eremao's shrill abuse, as the former
                    walked in upon them unceremoniously, and, squatting down, went on calmly chewing
                    betel. ‘You have nothing to do with the business. But, if she is wise, she will
                    listen.’ Beatrice Elflida Norma looked at her shrewdly and said, ‘Be quiet,
                    mamma, there is no harm in hearing what she has to say.’
                It was not much, but to the point. No doubt, if they appealed to English justice,
                    they could force the Diwan to support his wife. But how? At Hodinuggur under
                    lock and key. It would not be nice, and
                    Chândni had tales to tell which made Mrs. D'Eremao's hair stand on her head even
                    while she protested that she was a freeborn British subject.
                    Doubtless; but then they must give up all hopes of the position for which the
                    girl had married such an atrocity. (Here Beatrice Elflida dissolved into tears.)
                    Besides, that was not the way to treat a Mohammedan gentleman, an off?shoot of
                    the great Moghuls; but she knew how to treat him, and for a consideration, was
                    quite willing to use her influence with Dalel to set things straight. She did
                    not want him, and had flouted his proposals of peace a dozen times, but she was
                    quite ready, for this consideration, to make herself useful.
                    Briefly, that consideration was a free hand if she could get it, no cabals
                    against her position, and an assignment, in case of Dalel's death, of a good
                    slice of that state pension, which, in such case, would be given to the wife. If
                    there were children, so much the better, since the pension would be larger. In
                    addition, they had to remember that refusal would not amend the position, since
                    Dalel would no doubt bribe her back in some other way.
                So a week after this, her Highness Beatrice
                    Elflida Norma of Hodinuggur's name appeared on the list of donors to a certain
                    Fund, opposite no less a sum than one thousand rupees, and she herself appeared
                    at the next vice?regal squash in full native costume, with her hair quite
                    straight, and many shades darker in colour. She sat and talked affably to a
                    stout English matron about her husband's great desire to assimilate the lives of
                    Indian women more closely to those of their European sisters; so that, on her
                    return home, the stout English matron mentioned to her stout English husband,
                    who happened to be a Commissioner, that the Hodinuggur creature seemed to have
                    ideas and should be encouraged.
                And that evening, Dalel said to Chândni, ere he left the little balconied room
                    where so many grave and reverend gossip?mongers sat drinking sherbet, ‘Thou wilt
                    return to Hodinuggur as thou hast promised.’
                ‘I will return; but not as before. I am free to come and go. And see that thou
                    pay me back that thousand rupees out of the first batch of horses. Else Chândni
                    goes, never to come again.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXVI
                IT was a hot October. The rains coming early had stopped early, giving
                    Lewis Gordon and Rose that charming sunshiny month on the Hills, of which
                    mention has been made. A whole month of almost idyllic happiness and
                    content.
                And now, after the usual hiatus of a visit or two for Rose en route, and a hasty tour for her father round
                    some outlying canals, they had settled down for the cold?weather life at
                    Rajpore. Perhaps it was only the rather unusual heat which made it seem less
                    pleasing than usual to at least two of the party. And this was more evident to
                    Lewis Gordon than to the girl, since she had the occupation and distraction of
                    preparing for Gwen's approaching marriage. Naturally, it was to be a great
                    function, for, while her admirers were legion, Dan's friends were many; besides,
                    as 
                        every?
                        everybody
                     body admitted, the bride and
                    bridegroom alone would be worth going to see, worth remembering as a pattern
                    pair of lovers. So the Tweedies were lending their house for the breakfast—which
                    was to be a real breakfast, since the marriage was to take place so as to allow
                    of a start by the cool morning mail; the regiment was lending its band for the
                    wedding?march, and, on this tepid October afternoon, every garden in the place
                    was sending white oleanders and hibiscus to the odd octagon church which had
                    once been a Mohammedan tomb. Nay more! one devoted though disappointed lover far
                    down by some distant canal had sent, by special messenger, a great basket of
                    belated white lotus lilies, with a request that they might be trodden on by the
                    bride's happy feet.
                Gwen, as she bent over this offering, sniffing at the faint almond scent of the
                    huge, jewelled flowers, was a gracious sight to look upon. She had quite
                    recovered herself, and in sober truth felt absolutely content. ‘How nice of the
                    dear thing!’ she murmured sweetly.
                And so it was; very nice. One might give it another epithet and say it was almost
                        heroic. But of this Gwen Boynton had no
                    conception, and never would have one. That side of human nature, its passion,
                    its tears, its temptations, its triumphs, had been left out of her composition.
                    She roused it in others, she played with it prettily, she even spoke warily and
                    discreetly about it; yet Rose Tweedie, despite her girlish disdain, had more
                    real sympathy with it than she had.
                Dan, meanwhile, in Lewis Gordon's office, disregardful of the lack of chairs, was
                    kicking his heels as he sat on the table, declaring loudly that he would of a
                    certainty break down in replying to the toast which was to be given at the club
                    dinner in his honour that night. What the dickens did the fellows mean by giving
                    him a dinner? What had he ever done for any of them? What had he ever been but a
                    reckless, insubordinate, unsteady, loafing brute, who ought to have been kicked
                    out of the service years ago?
                ‘I expect they know their own minds,’ replied Lewis rather wearily. He had a
                    headache; and he was telling himself it was liver when he knew quite well it was
                    not; a most unsatisfactory denial since there is no phase of depression so unendurable as that when even a blue
                    pill fails to hold out cheering hopes. Yet he spoke kindly and patiently also;
                    for he must have been of base clay, indeed, who would not have recognised that
                    Dan, transfigured as it were on the summit of his hopes, was a worthy sight in
                    this work?a?day world, and that, in a measure, it was well to be there on the
                    hill?top with him. ‘Besides,’ he added, ‘I think I overheard Simpson saying
                    something about a sick baby—’
                ‘Oh! bad cess to the baby,’ interrupted Dan hastily. ‘Sure it's a boy now, and
                    one can't see a child die for the want of ice when your pony has four legs.
                    More, by token, it had but three for a month after, poor beast. But what's that
                    to do with it? It isn't so much that I'm too bad. It's the world that's too good
                    for me, and that's a fact. When I think of all you fellows who have been so good
                    and so patient with me, my heart's broke about it entirely—and when I think of
                    George! sure, it's only Gwen's kind face that comforts me. Oh, Gordon! what have
                    I done that she should be going to marry me to?morrow?’
                So he ran on, as many another man has run on;
                    as most men, good and true, do run on when they are just about to marry the
                    woman they love.
                And Lewis Gordon sat listening to him with a headache and a pain in his heart;
                    for the most part thinking that if Rose could only see this man, only hear him,
                    she might not be quite so disdainful of it all; might acknowledge that, be it
                    bad or good in its essence, this feeling did step into a man's life for the time
                    and claim him body and soul, to the detriment of neither.
                ‘And by the by,’ said Dan suddenly, ‘I've been meaning to ask you for a long
                    time, but I wasn't sure if you'd like it. And now that I'm going away for good
                    and all, and you can't get out of being my best man, I'll risk it. When are you
                    going to marry Miss Tweedie?’
                ‘Never,’ replied Lewis firmly, roused into instant resistance. ‘What put such a
                    fancy into your head now?’
                ‘Now?’ Dan's face was a study in tender humour. ’It's been in my head for the
                    last year, and in yours too. I told Gwen so, I remember, before we went to
                    Hodinuggur that time, and I could see by her
                    manner she thought so also.’
                Lewis looked at him with an odd expression. ‘Then you were both mistaken, that's all.
                        
                        ’
                     And Fitzgerald, if you're quite done talking about yourself—I've a lot
                    of work to finish, old chap—’
                Dan laughed. ‘Well! I'll go; but it is true, Gordon, and what is more, she likes
                    you; any one can see that.’
                True! absolutely true. Lewis knew it right well, none better, and the remembrance
                    of the affection she had given him unasked filled him as ever with a glow of
                    intense satisfaction. And yet he had to confess that he was not happy. That
                    idyllic month spent in each other's company had been charming, but that
                    fortnight of absence had been the reverse. And what he felt now was something
                    very different from that calm, contented confidence in their mutual friendship
                    which remained, thank Heaven, untouched by this new passion. For it was that,
                    and nothing else. He had felt it before, for other women, this moody, restless,
                    selfish desire of appropriation, and if Rose would not marry him he would
                        probably feel it again for some one else.
                    In a half?hearted way he almost regretted that it should have obtruded itself in
                    this, the most perfect idyl of his life, and yet, call it what hard names he
                    would, there it was, a palpable factor in the future. Rose was the best of
                    friends; but she was also a very charming girl into whose company he had been
                    thrown, and he had fallen in love with her; naturally enough—only it complicated
                    matters.
                He gave a queer little grimace and began to add up a column of figures, telling
                    himself that no doubt he would get over it as he had got over similar attacks
                    before; and that at any rate he would wait and see. Anything seemed better than
                    the risk of paining Rose by letting her think that after all he had failed to
                    understand the absolute unconsciousness of her regard for him. And that she
                    might think so, seemed more than likely, since with all his experience, all his
                    knowledge, he was only just beginning to realise that this passionate love was
                    indeed a thing absolutely apart from his affection for her. So much so, that it
                    almost seemed to him that it would have been easier to tell her of the former,
                    if the latter had not hedged her in with
                    reverence and tenderness. It came to him, with a smile, that indeed and in truth
                    it would have been easier had he been able to send the barber round with
                    proposals to her father in native fashion; after all, there was an immense deal
                    to be said for that side of the question.
                And then, in his careful methodical fashion, he began to add up the column of
                    figures again. This time the total was different; a trifle to be easily set
                    right, yet he was not used to such aberrations of intellect, and it annoyed him.
                    He did it again, this time allowing no thoughts of Rose or anything else to
                    obtrude themselves, and a new set of figures rewarded his perseverance. He laid
                    the pen aside and faced himself resolutely. Yes! he had been doing atrocious
                    work of late, he had been thinking of Rose all day long, he had not been able to
                    settle steadily to anything, and, unless this could be stopped, the sooner he
                    took advantage of the many changes in the department—consequent on Dan's going
                    and the usual cold?weather returns from furlough—in order to give up his present
                    position, the better. There was nothing like
                    breaking loose from one's surroundings at once, and he was due some promotion.
                    But if he had to do this, Rose ought to know the reason. Why should she live in
                    a fool's paradise? Why should she not face the facts of life as well as he? If
                    she had been like other women he had known, he would have made love to her and
                    proposed as a matter of course; but she was not like others; or rather what did
                    he know of the matter, save that never by word, or look, or sign had she shown
                    her knowledge even of the most elementary facts in life. How could you go to a
                    girl like that and ask her to marry you straight off? What could you do save
                    gloze over the question by phrases, by mixing it up with other things, even with
                    that perfect, angelic, absolutely unselfish affection and regard which she had
                    given him, and which he, apart from all this, felt for her. Still, it had to be
                    done; in common fairness to her and to himself, he must tell her that he was a
                    fool, and that life was quite unendurable without her; he must tell her, if only
                    because there was no other earthly reason why he should give up the
                    Secretaryship. And if this had to be, if he
                    had to tell her, then there was no time like the present, when the necessity for
                    action seemed clear to him.
                So ten minutes after, he walked into the room where Rose sat making wedding
                    favours as for dear life, surrounded by a perfect chevaux de frise of white satin ribbons, bows, and blossoms. The
                    windows were set wide open on to the verandah where great baskets of white
                    flowers lay awaiting her final visit to the church. On the table stood the lotus
                    lily offering with a note from Gwen to say it was too good to be trodden on, and
                    would Rose see the pretty things were put on the altar, where they would look
                    quite sweet. The girl in her white dress with her brisk hands flying about
                    scissors, needle, and thimble, and her mind busy with the coming marriage,
                    seemed, like her surroundings, in unsympathising connection with his purpose;
                    and the perception made him say discontentedly as he paused beside her to lean
                    against the table—
                ‘I thought you didn't approve of wedding favours?’ It was an opening of the siege
                    at the very furthermost outworks of the position which she frustrated by a
                    laugh.
                
                ‘Oh, it doesn't matter! other people seem to like them, and I've made you such a
                    beauty. There it is, beside you on the table—take care! you're almost sitting on
                    it. Smell it, it's real orange?blossom.’
                There was apparently not a vacant chair in the room. They were all occupied with
                    white wreaths and true lovers' knots—but with a cross here and there he was glad
                    to see—so he continued to lean against the table, smelling perfunctorily at his
                    own favour, and thinking of the utter inconsequence of the feminine mind, until
                    a certain irritation came to his aid.
                ‘I wish you would put that work down for a minute, Rose,’ he said quietly. ‘I
                    have something I want to say to you.’
                Her hands paused, arrested among the white ribbons, her mind on one word; for he
                    had never before called her by her Christian name. So she sat looking at him
                    doubtfully, with the light from the windows behind her edging the great coils of
                    her hair with bronze.
                ‘I have come to tell you that I'm a fool,’ he began almost argumentatively. ‘At
                    least, I suppose it's foolish. I am quite ready to admit, if you like, that it is so; but the fact
                    remains. I can't go on as we are—as we have been, I should say—any longer. Don't
                    think it is because I cannot understand. I do—at least I think I do. You are my
                    friend, Rose, and will be that always, I hope. I don't say the best friend I
                    ever had, or ever shall have, because that has nothing to do with the question,
                    and, besides, there aren't any degrees in friendship—you have taught me that. So
                    I think you may admit that I understand you. The question is, if you will
                    understand me.’
                He paused, and Rose's kind shadowless eyes noted with a sudden shrinking back
                    from the sight, that his usual calm was broken by a palpable effort to steady
                    his voice. He felt, indeed, that he had not the least clew to the girl's mind;
                    that he was absolutely taking a leap in the dark. And that what he had to say
                    now was, in reality, so foreign to every single word they had ever said to each
                    other before, that even if she consented to marry him he could not be sure if
                    she meant it—if she really understood the difference which he saw so
                    clearly.
                
                ‘Rose,’ he went on, ‘the fact is, that I've fallen in love with—with you; and if
                    you don't really want to marry me, I had better go away. I would take an
                    out?district for a time. I've had enough—perhaps too much—secretary work.’ He
                    seemed to take refuge in details from the main point.
                ‘Why—why should you go away?’ asked Rose in a low voice. ‘We were very happy,
                    weren't we?’
                Her eyes, which had sought her hands among the white satin bows, came back to his
                    face anxiously, almost fearfully.
                ‘Why?’ he echoed passionately, and as he went on his words, his voice, his manner
                    trembled in the fine balance between the humour of the thing and its gravity.
                    ‘Ah, Rose, that is the question! Because I'm a fool, say you; because I'm a man,
                    say I. Because I love you, Rose; because I think of you when I ought to be
                    thinking of other things. Because I'm an idiot, and have gone all to pieces.
                    Because it's torture to think you may go away and marry some one else. Because I
                    can't even add up a column of figures without wondering what you will say now—now when I ask you to marry me?
                    Because—yes! have it so—because I am a fool!—’
                He had held out his hands towards her, and hers were in them in an instant.
                ‘Oh, Lewis, what a wretch I've been!’ she cried; ‘but why didn't you ask me
                    before?’
                ‘Why—didn't—you—ask me—before,’ he repeated slowly. The favours which had fallen
                    from her lap lay round about their feet, and those on the table were squashed
                    remorselessly as he seated himself upon its edge with the air of a man who
                    requires some physical support, and still holding her by the hands, drew her
                    down beside him silently. ‘I shall never understand you, dear—thank God!’ he
                    said at last in an undertone: then went on in a different voice—‘It
                        is a little confusing, Rose, you must admit. All this time,
                    ever since you told me that you—’
                She interrupted him quickly, eagerly—‘Ah, but that was a totally different thing
                    altogether!’
                ‘Totally different,’ he echoed meekly. ‘Yes, of course!’ And then he paused again
                    with his eyes on hers. ‘I suppose you would rather I didn't kiss you?’ he began irrelatively, with a
                    half smile of infinite tenderness.
                ‘Oh, I don't mind,’ she put in hastily; ‘it doesn't really matter—if you
                    wish—only don't talk nonsense, Lewis; please don't. I do hate it so; it makes me
                    feel inclined to put my head in a bag.’
                ‘Then I won't; I can't afford to lose sight of your dear face just now.’
                ‘Lewis!’
                ‘But if I don't say that sort of thing, what are we to talk about?’
                    he asked, only half in jest. ‘The weather—the news? Not very interesting
                    subjects either of them to a man when the girl he loves has just promised to
                    marry him—for you have promised, haven't you, Rose?’
                She took no notice of his question.
                ‘Talk about,’ she echoed, her kind eyes growing a little absent—‘surely there are
                    heaps of things to talk about besides you and me. There is the house we are
                    going to have, Lewis; such a nice house! The prettiest drawing?room you ever
                    saw; I will have it so. And a study for you, all to yourself, sir, where you can
                    go when you're tired of me. And then the
                    dinners, Lewis! That's one blessing of my having kept house for father. I know
                    all about it. There won't be any cold mutton, Lewis; but the nicest little
                    dinners.’ She paused to nod her head wisely.
                ‘Well,’ said Lewis, ‘please go on; this is really most interesting.’
                ‘And the garden. I'll make you gardener, Lewis. I don't believe you know the
                    difference between a carnation and a chrysanthemum now; but I'll teach you, and
                    you shall tie them up for me—I hate tying up flowers. And I'll copy your reports
                    for you, and keep the house quiet. And then, and then, everybody will be so
                    hungry, Lewis, and there will be so many bills to pay; but it won't matter, for
                    every one will be happy, and the children will brag about their home to all the
                    other girls and boys—’
                ‘Go on, dear, go on!’ There was a little tremble in his voice now, and as they
                    sat ruining the wedding favours, his right arm drew her closer to him; but she
                    seemed not to notice it. A half smile was on her lips, a certain sadness in her
                    eyes.
                ‘And then, dear? Who knows—who can tell? There
                    are so many things, and death comes—even to the little ones.’ She paused, then
                    went on more lightly—‘And I'll grow stout; yes, I'm afraid so, Lewis. I'm the
                    sort of girl, you know, who is apt to get stout. And you are sure to grow bald.
                    Then I'll be cross, and you'll be cross; only it won't so much matter, for we
                    will both be cross together—and no wonder, with the boys wanting cricket?bats,
                    and the girls clamouring for music?lessons! So there will be more bills than
                    ever. Then you and I will begin to get old, Lewis; and the girls will want me to
                    sit up till three in the morning at balls, and I shall be so sleepy; but you
                    shall stay at home and smoke, dear. And then the boys will get into scrapes—boys
                    always do, don't they, Lewis—for they're not like girls, you know. And when they
                    come to me to get them out of their trouble, I shall say: “No, dears, go to your
                    father, he will understand; for he—for he is the best man I ever
                        knew.”’
                Her voice ended in a little sob; he could feel it, hear it, as if it were his
                    own, for her face was hidden on his breast.
                ‘Rose! Rose! my dear, my dear!’
                
                It was almost a cry. He would have liked to kneel before his love, as he had done
                    before the other, but with her there so close to his heart, he could only hold
                    her fast and tell himself passionately that, in those long years to come, it
                    should be even as she had said, and that never, in word, thought, or deed, would
                    he sully her pure ideal.
                So they sat silent—for, to tell truth, other words seemed to him sacrilege, and
                    she had said her say—until with a half apologetic smile she drew herself
                    away.
                ‘I'm sure you are sitting on your favour, Lewis, and I've such a lot more to
                    make; besides, I promised to go down to the church at half?past five. It must be
                    that now, and I've wasted all this time.’
                ‘I've been here exactly seven minutes and a half,’ he replied, gloomily taking
                    out his watch; ‘for I looked just before I came in.’
                She laughed. ‘Well, that was very methodical of you; and I think, on the whole,
                    dear, that you managed very nicely. And now, as I hear the carriage coming
                    round, you might just help me to put in the flowers. Aren't the lotus
                    lovely?’
                
                There was no help for it. She was hopelessly back in realities, and Lewis had to
                    accept the position. After all, as he watched her drive off, like a bride
                    herself in the midst of her white flowers, he told himself that she had managed
                    to compress a great deal into those seven and a half minutes; a whole dream of
                    life which must, which should come true. It would be more difficult for him than
                    for her, of course; perhaps that was one reason why he was still thinking over
                    it long after she had forgotten everything else in the fervour of a free fight
                    with the parson, who objected on principle to lotus?blossoms in the chancel.
                    They were a heathen flower, sacred to unmentionable beliefs and rites, and could
                    not be admitted beyond the body of the church. It was but an offshoot of an old
                    quarrel between these two, which renewed itself every Christmas and Easter?tide;
                    but Rose, who by instinct understood the story which these particular flowers
                    had to tell, opened up the whole question of symbolism hotly, finally marching
                    off with her lilies in a huff to the lectern, whence, she told herself, their
                    message of love and sacrifice might fittingly go forth. And while she worked away under the echoing dome of
                    the old tomb, the band in the bit of public garden close by was clashing and
                    bashing away at ‘Rule Britannia’ and ‘Ta?ra?ra?boom?de?ay,’ much to the delight
                    of ayahs leading sallow dark?eyed children by the hand, and a motley crowd of
                    servants and shopkeepers from the neighbouring bazaar.
                Sometimes a palki gharry, like a green box on wheels, with four or five specimens
                    of Tommy Atkins and a black bottle inside, would come rattling past, drawn by an
                    anatomy of a horse, and leave a shower of gibes and greetings behind it for
                    those other green boxes on wheels which were drawn up beside the road, while
                    their gaily?dressed occupants chewed betel or strolled about with clanking feet
                    among the long shadows thrown by the flowering shrubs. Light, and laughter, and
                    noise; a whole eternity of time and space between this life and the girl under
                    the dome, decorating the Bible with lotus?blossoms.
                ‘There's going to be a big shâdi (wedding) in the girja ghur (church) to?morrow
                    morning,’ said one of the occupants, dressed in tight mauve silk trousers and a
                    yellow veil, as she clambered back into the
                    green box where a figure in white lay listening lazily. ‘They are doing all
                    sorts of pooja there to?day. It is that big, long sahib in the canals and
                    Boynton sahib's widow. Ai, the sorry tale! Making a fuss of shâdi about a woman
                    who has had the misfortune to kill one man.’
                Chândni sat up suddenly. ‘Tobah! a sorry tale, indeed! So she is to marry him!
                    Lo, there is a man, indeed! but I wonder what he would say if he knew what I
                    know now?’
                ‘Dost know aught? Dost know him?’ began the other enviously.
                ‘I have seen him. He was down at Hodinuggur a week ago putting up a white marble
                    stone to the young sahib who died there of the sickness last rains. They were
                    friends, see you, great friends. Lo, tell thy driver to go on, Lâlu; this
                    wearies me, the folk have no manners.’
                They had not far to go; only to the Bedâmi bazaar, with its current of life below
                    and its latticed balconies above. The full moon rose through the golden?dust
                    haze to hang like a balloon above the feathery crowns of the palm?trees; the clatter of horses' hoofs bearing
                    their owners home to dinner died from the Mall hard by; and Rose stood at the
                    door of the tomb looking back into the shadowy dome, where the huge lilies
                    showed like the ghosts of flowers. It would look very nice, she thought, in the
                    cool light of early morning; and she would have it decorated in the same way
                    when she and Lewis were married.
                But Chândni, as she paused to think of the future, thought of the past also.
                ‘He fought me fairly,’ she said to herself; ‘and for his beauty's sake, I could
                    bear more than he gave. That is our way. But she! Lo, she is even as I, and he
                    shall know it. I will put that in the platter as the wedding tribute, and it
                    will help him to pay her back for me. 'Tis almost as well I had not learnt the
                    tale from Dalel in those days. It comes better now.’
                So, as the night fell, she wrapped herself in the white domino of respectability,
                    sent for another green box on wheels, and drove in the direction of the house
                    where Dan was living. That was not difficult to discover; all that was necessary
                    being a word of inquiry from the general
                    merchant who sold everything heart could desire in the shop below the balcony.
                    And the night was warm. She would as lief sit in the moonshine behind the hedge
                    of white oleanders and talk to the gardeners, as stay in the stuffy bazaar with
                    its evening odours of fried meats and pungent smoke.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXVII
                ‘I WAS never so happy or so sorry in all my life before, and I thank
                    Heaven that I'm enough of an Irishman still to say so without being afraid of
                    being laughed at.’
                He stood at one end of the table looking his best, as a gentleman always does in
                    his evening dress—a curious fact, since there is no more cruel test for the
                    least lack of good breeding. But this man stood it triumphantly, and not one of
                    those other men seated that night round the long table but carries to his grave
                    a remembrance of Dan Fitzgerald's look when he was bidding good?bye to his
                    friends. The eager vitality of the man, always his strongest characteristic,
                    seemed to have reached its climax.
                ‘I'm not going to say anything of her,’ he went on, the rich, round voice
                    softening. ‘There isn't any need, since you all know her. Besides, though you have all come here
                    to?night—why, I can't for the life of me tell—to wish us good luck in the
                    future, it isn't so much of the future I'm thinking as of the past. It has been
                    so happy, thanks to you all. And it's over. That is the worst of it. I suppose
                    it isn't quite what a man is expected to say on these occasions; but the
                    ladies—God bless them!—would, I'm sure, agree, if they could only be made to
                    understand that marriage is the end of a man's youth. It doesn't alter the case
                    at all that it may be the end of the woman's also, or that we get something that
                    may be as good in exchange. What has that to do with the past?—the merry,
                    careless past, which I've enjoyed so much, and to which I'm now saying good?bye.
                    Well, Heaven help those who say good?bye to it without a solid reason, or have a
                    sneaking intention of not really saying good?bye to it at all! for their lines
                    are in evil places. And that sounds like a sermon, and you never heard Dan
                    Fitzgerald preach before, and you never will again. It isn't only that I'm off
                    with the morning to the other end of the world—to a new world, if it comes to
                    that, worth this old one and the past and all
                    of you put together, if you'll excuse my saying so—it is because even if I were
                    stopping here I should be out of the old life as surely as if I were dead and
                    buried. To begin with, I shall have to think of every penny I spend, so that I
                    may have enough to pay for paradise! The world is full of paradoxes for me
                    to?night; and I'm the greatest of them all myself; for I don't want to say
                    good?bye, and yet I wouldn't miss having to say it for the world. Then it seems
                    to me to?night as if I'd solved the puzzle; and there's Doveton—the old
                    bachelor—grinning as if he knew I was a fool, and that I was making the biggest
                    mistake of my life. I don't think so—I don't think I ever shall think so; I hope
                    not, anyhow. And so, good?bye to you—good?bye! And may none of us, married or
                    single, live to know the pain of a “heart grown cold, a head grown grey—in
                    vain!”’
                Down the disordered table with its litter of glasses and flowers, its atmosphere
                    heavy with the odours of dinner and drink, a hush lay for a second; not more.
                    Then some one laughed, and with a roar of applause the general tone— varying from concert pitch to normal diapason,
                    according to the taste of the owner—struck into the old chorus; the refrain
                    which, touching as it does the lowest and the highest ideals of humanity, has
                    provoked more mixed sentiment and emotion than any other in the language:
                ‘For he's a jolly good fel?low. For he's a jolly good
                    fe?el?low.’
                Love, admiration, assent. But to what? That lies in the creed of the singer.
                And Dan, as the chorus went swaying and surging about in the discords and
                    harmonies, was left alone, silent—as it were on a pinnacle.
                Lewis Gordon, feeling responsible for his man, and noting his growing excitement,
                    inveigled him out after a time for a quiet cigar on the verandah, and then
                    suggested he should go to bed; whereat Dan laughed softly. Did not his best man
                    see that the idea was palpably absurd when life itself was a dream—a dream that
                    only came once to a fellow? When you hadn't a wish ungratified, save of course
                    that some others he wot of, might have as good luck as he.
                ‘If you mean me,’ replied Lewis stolidly, ‘I'm all right. I'm going to marry Rose
                        Tweedie whenever she can spare five
                    minutes from your wedding to arrange mine.’
                ‘You don't say so! By the powers, what a good match?maker I am! And so it's
                    settled. I say, Gordon, do you think there is any chance of her being up still?’
                    put in Dan all in one breath.
                ‘Couldn't say; she had a lot of favours to make and re?make when I last saw her,
                    certainly,’ replied Lewis, with an inward smile at the remembrance; ‘but you
                    can't go and call on her now; it's half?past ten at least.’
                ‘Can't I? There is nothing I couldn't do to?night, it seems to me. And
                        you are yawning. Oh, go to bed, old man! or you will spoil the
                    show to?morrow.’
                ‘And you?’
                ‘I'm off too, but not to bed! No, you needn't be afraid. I'll turn up again in
                    time.’
                The glamour of the soft Indian night was on Lewis also; even on those who one by
                    one drifted from the laughter within to stand for five minutes, arrested by the
                    peace without, before going on their way. And if this were so to men in the
                    slack?water of life, what must it have been to
                    Dan on the flood?tide of his threescore years and ten! To Dan with his vivid
                    imagination, his soft heart, his excitable, impulsive nature. As he rode along
                    noiselessly at a foot's pace through the sandy dust which looked hard as marble
                    in the glare of the moon, he and his shadow were the only moving things in that
                    world of light. No darkness anywhere! Not even in the distant arcades of trees.
                    Only a soft grey mist of moonlight blending all things into the semblance of a
                    mirage seen from afar. A fire?fly or two showed against the flowering shrubs in
                    intermittent glimpses of light. Here, and then gone, as it were, upon the soft
                    quiver of the insistent cicalas in the air.
                Was not life worth living, indeed if only for such a night as this!
                ‘On such a night did young Lorenzo!’
                But Dan Fitzgerald had passed beyond that flood?mark on the shore. Passion
                    counted for much in the elation of mind and body which was the apotheosis of
                    both; but love counted for more. The memory of a thousand griefs and pains with
                    pity hidden in their hearts came to fill the mystic cup of life which the
                    Unseen, Unknown Hand held out to him from Heaven —the Sangreal of Humanity—the sacraments of Birth and Death. The child dying
                    of the potter's thumb?mark in the dust—that other in loving arms with the ice
                    chilling even death's cold touch—George with the bullet piercing the friendship
                    in his heart—Rose with her pure wisdom fearless and unashamed—these and many
                    another remembrance seemed to blend sorrow and joy into peace, even as the
                    moon?mist blent the world around him into vague beauty.
                And there was Rose herself! He could see her, as with the easy friendliness of
                    India he paced his pony through the open gates of the garden, and so passed the
                    house. She was still at work among the white flowers beside the door which was
                    set wide upon the warm balmy night.
                ‘Is that you, Mr. Fitzgerald?’ she called, pausing at the faint sound of his
                    coming to look out into the flood of moonlight clear as noonday.
                ‘It is I, Miss Tweedie.’
                He had slipped from his pony and stood beside it welcoming her with outstretched
                    hands as she came forth, eager with some
                    message for the morrow which he might deliver.
                ‘Lewis has told me, and I'm so glad,’ he said, breaking in on her words. ‘It is
                    the best wedding present I've had yet, and I came along on the chance of seeing
                    you. I've something to give you. I meant it for to?morrow, as a parting
                    gift—just a remembrance of your kindness to us both. But I'd rather give it to
                    you with our best wishes.’
                He unfastened something from his own wrist and put it, soft and warm, into her
                    hand. It was a native amulet cunningly twisted of silk thread and pearls, with a
                    triangle of some blue stone strung in the centre.
                ‘'Tis only a glorified ram?rukhri,’ he went on half?jestingly, ‘the bracelet
                    sisters give their brothers to bring them good luck. Only it is the other way
                    round with you.’
                Rose looked at the blue of the triangle doubtfully, then at his kindly face.
                ‘Yes! it's a bit of the Ayôdhya pot—the only bit that wasn't in pieces. And it
                    has my name on the back, and—and George's.’
                ‘And George's?’ echoed Rose softly.
                ‘Ay! He would have liked it, I know— for you
                    were kind to him—kind to us both, always,—Mâdr?mihrbân, as the old potter called
                    you. And we two, George and I, are one part of the story; I was thinking of it
                    as I came along just now—’
                She put out her hand with a sudden gesture. ‘Don't think of it, Mr. Fitzgerald!
                    Forget all about it. Go away and forget.’
                He gave a happy laugh. ‘Why should I? I don't want to forget anything
                    to?night—except my sins. The rest is all good. Let me put that on for
                    you—so—good?night! We'll say good?bye to?morrow.’
                So out on the deserted roads with the same happy unrest in his heart. He would go
                    down and see the old familiar places in the garden opposite once more—even the
                    pond where the ducks and geese had quacked and gabbled him into silence! Then
                    through the hanging tassels of the grey tamarisk trees, round the gleaming white
                    road to the blue?tiled minarets of the old watch?tower standing causelessly upon
                    the level plain where four ways met, and so back station?wards to the stunted
                    dome of the church. The throbbing of tom?toms proclaimed the nearness of the bazaar, but the building itself stood
                    unassailably silent and deserted on its high white plinth, save for some one
                    lying on a string bed set in a shadow by the door. Dan slipped from his pony
                    again, and hitched the reins to a broken iron clamp in the stone?work of the
                    steps. The door, he knew, would be open to let in the cool night?air, so he
                    would look in—‘go round the course’ as a horsey friend of his had said when
                    discovered doing the same thing before his marriage. The remembrance made him
                    smile as he stepped into the dark building and paused, arrested by the
                    strangeness of what he saw. For the dome was full of fire?flies brought hither
                    in the flowers; full of a causeless glimpsing of pale green fire showing every
                    instant the white heart of some blossom. And the air was burdened with scent;
                    distinct, through all, a faint, deadly smell of bitter almonds. That must be
                    from the lotus Gwen had mentioned, and there they were, in the shaft of
                    moonlight through the upper window, standing like sentinels over the
                    lectern.
                
                    ‘Om mâni padma hom.’
                
                What did it really mean, that invocation used
                    by so many millions? What was the mystic jewel in the lotus? Something fair but
                    far, no doubt, such as all religions promise. And then with a rush came the
                    thought that Gwen would stand beside them on the morrow, fair and near!
                The echo of his pony's galloping feet made that throbbing in the bazaar pause an
                    instant as if to listen. Pause and go on when he had passed. The darkened houses
                    of his friends rose up beside him and were left behind; the club with its still
                    twinkling arches, the garden where Chândni sat gossiping and waiting her chance
                    to kill his faith wantonly. All these he passed. Awake or sleeping he must be
                    near Gwen for an instant—must bid her good?night before the day came.
                The chiming, echoing gong from the secretarial office rang twelve, clear; then
                    the others began. Here and there from the various centres of law and order,
                    many?voiced from the massive pile of the distant city. He was too late then, yet
                    not too late; for there was a light still in the little front room, despoiled of
                    its prettiness now and littered with boxes. She was awake, busy like Rose over
                    the morrow.
                
                ‘Gwen!’ he called to her softly, for the chick was down, the door half
                    closed.
                ‘My dear Dan!’ Her voice, as she opened it and came hurriedly into the verandah,
                    was full of amused horror and half?vexed kindness. ‘Do go away, there's a dear!
                    I never heard of such a thing, never! And the hotel is crammed full of
                    people!’
                ‘It's only to wish you many happy returns of the day, dear!’ he whispered fondly.
                    ‘When I've done that I'll go content. Who wouldn't be content with you, Gwen?
                    And yet I wouldn't spare an inch of it all—I couldn't. Gwen! do you remember the
                    day your bearer was cleaning the lamps out here, and we were sitting on the
                    sofa?—odd, isn't it, how one remembers these things all in a jumble, the one
                    with the other—and I said to you—the very words come back to me, dear, every one
                    of them—“You might be bankrupt of everything, Gwen, of everything save yourself,
                    and I'll give you credit for it all the same.” Do you remember, dear? Well, I've
                    come to take the promise back. You've spoilt me, Gwen, I can't do it.’
                ‘I—I don't understand,’ she said faintly. ‘I
                    wish you would go, Dan. We can talk of it to?morrow—afterwards.’
                ‘To morrow? Sure it's to?day already, our wedding?day! And if I can't keep the
                    promise, am I not bound to take it back while I can? Not that I'm afraid—that is
                    why I've come, to tell you, selfish brute that I am—that is why I want it
                    all—every scrap of your beauty, your goodness. I'll take nothing else, dear,
                    now; for I know it's yours, and what is yours is mine by right!’
                She had grown very pale, and a sort of terror came into her eyes.
                ‘Ah Dan! what is the use of talking? I give you all I can. My best—I can't do
                    more—it isn't kind—’ she broke off almost impatiently, and yet she did not move
                    from his clasp.
                ‘Not kind, when I know what the best means? And yet, Gwen, it just comes upon me
                    now that I couldn't stand it—if—if it were not so—not after this midsummer
                    night's dream—of madness, if you will! Yes, dear, I'm going—I am indeed. But,
                    Gwen—it's an idle fancy—and yet if there was anything it would be better to tell
                    me now. You're not angry at the thought—it's
                    only a thought. See, give me one kiss—just one, to be an answer for always.’
                What right, she asked herself fiercely, had she to hesitate? What possible right,
                    standing as she did on the threshold of a new life, where no one could
                        possibly know—so she was back on the low levels among the ordinary
                    considerations of convenience and safety as she kissed him. But the touch of her
                    lips sent his blood surging through his heart and brain; and without another
                    word, another look, he turned and left her—content, absolutely content. Love,
                    pity, friendship, passion, had all combined to raise him to the uttermost limit
                    of vitality. He might come near it perhaps in the future; he was not likely ever
                    to reach it again—not even without Chândni waiting to tell him the truth on his
                    return to the odd little house at the other end of the station.
                He neither knew nor cared where he was going; but his pony, tired of these
                    incomprehensible wanderings, set its galloping hoofs on the shortest road
                    home—that is to say, through the densely?wooded grounds of the Residency. Along
                    a grassy ride or two, across a short cut they
                    sped. Dan forgetting even his joy in the keen effort of steering a runaway
                    through the trees; a runaway unheld, free to go as fast—nay, faster than it
                    chose, yet obedient to that grip to right or left. It was a mad ride, a mad
                    rider—yet a masterful one, wrestling imperiously with that other will, when the
                    gloom grew as the trees thickened, and darkness and danger came together in the
                    hot night, prisoned by the dense foliage above. Dan, looking down at the pony's
                    heaving flanks as it paused, wearied by its short, sharp, unavailing struggle
                    against his strong hands, felt flushed and hot. Not wearied,—he could not be
                    that on such a night,—but glowing, palpitating, excited; drunk almost as if with
                    wine. But yonder stood a remedy in that long, low?thatched roof, supported on
                    brick pillars, and hung round with heavy bamboo screens. Dan laughed as he slid
                    to the ground, thinking of the twelve feet of clear cool water running fresh and
                    fresh into the big swimming?bath at the one end, and out at the other to
                    irrigate the green levels of the garden. Fresh and fresh all through the
                    scorching summer weather, when life held no greater pleasure than to feel that cool water close in round the hot limbs.
                    Frequented then, morning and evening, though deserted and empty through the
                    colder months. Only the day before Dan's smooth dark head had come up from its
                    depths rejoicing, and now the thought of it was luxury itself when the blood was
                    beating in his temples, and racing at fever heat through his veins. More than
                    once coming home at night, after careless, reckless enjoyment, he had stopped
                    here, as he did now, to try the water?cure—as he had tried it in the canal at
                    Hodinuggur.
                ‘Sure I need it to?night if ever I did,’ he said half aloud. ‘'Tis the wine of
                    life has got into my head.’
                It was dark—almost too dark inside; that was because the fools had put down all
                    the screens when they should be opened by night to let in the fresh air. He told
                    himself that he would speak to the Secretary of the caretaker's neglect; yet how
                    would that be since he would never see him again?
                Yes! it was the last time! and how many times had he not gone down red?hot from
                    the spring?board as he would do now, to come up out of the dark water a new man,
                    with all the evil tempers and the prickly heat
                    quenched out of him?—sure, as a regenerating element, fire wasn't in it with
                    water!
                A leap in the dark indeed! But that was what life was, and he was not afraid of
                    it.
                The little bars of moonlight shining through the chinks between the bamboos came
                    so far on the smooth white floor, then the soft depth of darkness where the cool
                    water should be, and above it Dan, poised for a second.
                ‘I come! Mother of all!’
                The oft, old?repeated cry rang joyously up into the roof, followed by a strange,
                    dull thud, and silence—dead silence. The bath had been emptied that morning for
                    the cold weather, and Dan Fitzgerald was lying face downward on the hard cement
                    with a broken neck.
                Dead! Dead, without a word, a sigh, or a regret! And Chândni, growing tired of
                    patience, went home to the bazaar, grumbling at her ill?luck, telling herself
                    she might still write, if it were worth while.
                But Dan was beyond her spite, beyond other things which, even without that spite,
                    might have killed the best part of him.
                
                Yet even in romance the sixth commandment outweighs all the others. The novelist
                    may maim and degrade, may bear false witness against his own creations and filch
                    from them the very characteristics which he has given them, in order to make
                    degradation happy, but has must not kill; death in the verdict of the world
                    being the only real tragedy.
                So at any rate seemed the opinion of most people when in the early morning the
                    gardeners coming to their work found Dan's pony drowsing, half asleep, still
                    tethered to a hibiscus bush, whose great blossoms—in topsy?turvy fashion—showed
                    rosy?red in death and snowy?white in life.
                It was terribly sad, they said; an unredeemed tragedy, cruel, needless;
                    altogether a manifestation needing much true Christian faith; one of the
                    accidents of real life, so exasperating because so causeless, so inartistic
                    because so unnecessary. These and many other comments the mourners made as, when
                    the funeral was over, they returned home; and so, it being Sunday morning, went
                    to church, where they sang ‘Jerusalem the Golden’ piously.
                Only Rose lingered, her kind, soft hands laying
                    the half?dead lotus like sentinels on the grave; for Gwen's pure white cross of
                    gardenia had, at her request, been buried on the coffin.
                ‘I can't somehow be so sorry,’ she said to Lewis, between her sobs. ‘He was so
                    happy that last night. I seem to see his face still.’
                But the man caught his breath in hard. There was a verse which would ring in his
                    ears, his heart; for he had helped to lift poor Dan, and it had come to memory
                    then— 
                        ‘Broken in pieces like a potter's vessel.’
                     Yet, after all, what did it matter? but Rose must never know. In such
                    things he would stand between her and needless pain.
                And Gwen? She, as the phrase goes, bore up wonderfully. Not that she did not love
                    the dead man dearly, but because she did love him. For odd as it may
                    seem—topsy?turvywise, perhaps, like the hibiscus flowers—she had the same
                    consolation as Rose Tweedie.
                ‘I did not tell him,’ she said to herself as she lay in her darkened room. ‘He
                    was happy to the last. I did my best—I did my best.’
                So she cried softly; and so, once more, she escaped from her own remorse, and was
                    comforted.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXVIII
                BOTH for the reader's and writer's sake it is never fair to end a story
                    as you would end a play in a situation, for the former tries—vainly it may be—to
                    present life even in its trivialities, the latter only in its more dramatic
                    moments. So, though there is little more to tell, save what might easily be
                    filled in by the reader's own imagination, it would give a false impression of
                    the real value of poor Dan Fitzgerald's tragic death, were the curtain to come
                    down upon the rest of the dramatis personæ in
                    the first bewilderment and sorrow which such unexpected and causeless accidents
                    must always arouse. As a matter of fact, there is no grief which passes sooner
                    from the daily life than that caused by death, especially when a real and
                    unselfish love has existed between the dead and the living. The mind, after the
                    first physical sense of loss has spent itself,
                    refuses to believe in the extinction of a feeling which, in its own experience,
                    has survived death, and so is comforted not by forgetfulness but remembrance.
                    Besides, it is false art to end any history embracing the life of more than one
                    person with the balance in favour of pain. For were this so in reality, pain
                    would cease to be pain and become pleasure, because it would then be the normal
                    condition of life; since it is clearly to be demonstrated physiologically and
                    psychologically that it is in the disintegration of reminiscent habit that the
                    phenomena of pain arise. Indeed, in the mind, pain is incredible, impossible,
                    unless we have first formed the habit of pleasure; since it consists essentially
                    in privation.
                Therefore the novelist who wishes to give a true picture of life will always
                    leave his puppets content. Nor does this limit the field unduly, since it is
                    clearly as much the duty and privilege of the writer to present new sources of
                    content to his readers, as it is for him to present them with scenes, or
                    situations, or characters of which they have no previous knowledge. Because
                    Jones thinks the soul of bliss is incarnate in
                    roast?beef and plum?pudding, is that any reason why the more ethereal Brown
                    should be denied his cup of nectar? or that the philosophic Robinson, seeing
                    that birth and death are alike inscrutable phenomena, should refuse empirically
                    to believe that the one is joyful and the other sorrowful?
                But the public seems to think differently; ‘Oh don't kill him, or her, or them,’
                    it says cheerfully, ‘let them enter into life halt, and maimed, and blind. What
                    does anything matter so long as they have the average number of breakfasts,
                    luncheons, and dinners allotted to humanity, and can thus go down to their
                    graves in the fulness of time with the pleasing consciousness that their funeral
                        cortège is followed by a Noah's ark,
                    consisting of the ghosts of the animals they have devoured?’ For the world sides
                    with Esau, who bartered away his birthright for a mess of pottage. And good
                    pottage is, no doubt, warming, comforting, consoling. Yet some people who have
                    it not are happy; for instance, the two hundred and odd millions of India—but
                    then to them Birth and Death are alike the pivot on which the wheel of life
                    spins.
                
                So thought the potter of Hodinuggur. So had thought his fathers who lay buried in
                    the dust beside him, and though the old man had no son to step on to the
                    treadles when his feet slipped from them, the wheel span steadily, and the women
                    of the village, as they rung the temper of the water?jars before they bought
                    them, nodded their heads saying—‘Fuzl is a good potter. Look you, it comes with
                    a man's birth. When he goes, we shall have to send for another. Meroo thinks he
                    can make them, because the Sirkar taught him when he was three years in jail for
                    cattle?thieving. But it takes more than three years to make a potter.’
                Still Fuzl Elahi showed no signs of going; on the contrary, he seemed to have a
                    firmer hold on life than ever, as if Time had stood still for him. Rose Gordon
                    remarked on the fact to her husband as they sat side by side one day on the old
                    log. They had been married nearly a year, and he had brought her out for change
                    of air on one of his inspection tours—for he had given up the Secretaryship on
                    his marriage in favour of greater quiet and more freedom.
                
                ‘It is so strange, Lewis,’ she said, ‘you and I coming back, so changed. And so
                    many things have changed! even the palace scarcely looks itself with that
                    dreadful sort of Swiss châlet Dalel has built for Beatrice Norma tacked on to
                    the ruins of the old tower. And George and Dan are dead, and the water is
                    running in the cut yonder as if there had never been any tragedy about
                    preventing it from running. Yet the village, with the potter sitting in the
                    topmost house, is just the same.’
                Lewis Gordon smiled. ‘You never read Megasthenes' account of his travel through
                    India in the year B.C. 300 or you wouldn't be surprised. It might have been
                    written to?day; for these people do not change except under pressure from
                    without, and then they disintegrate suddenly. But the old man seems to me more
                    sane than he was—more at rest. No doubt Azizan's death—’
                The familiar name caught the potter's ear and he looked up from his work.
                ‘Yea! she sleeps still, Huzoor. The breaking of the pot did not disturb her at
                    all. She was weary, see you, after sixteen years of waking. So now when my
                        fathers say, “Where is Azizan?” I can
                    answer, “Hush! she sleeps! she will waken when she is refreshed.” Lo! it is well
                    the pot broke. It was accursed; bringing ill to all.’
                ‘There you see, Lewis!’ began Rose eagerly—
                ‘It did not bring it to me, dear,’ he replied, interrupting her, ‘and a man can
                    but judge from his own experiences. And then, as I have often told you, we
                    really know nothing for certain—’
                ‘Except,’ put in Rose obstinately, ‘that poor George—’
                ‘Don't you think we ought to be moving?’ he asked quietly. ‘Remember you promised
                    Mrs. Dalel to have tea in the châlet and inspect the son and heir, and you are
                    tired enough as it is.’
                ‘But you said you wanted to go and see some slope or another, and I'm not in the
                    least tired,’ she insisted when they had left the yard and reached the road.
                    ‘Lewis! you never used to fuss this way. I wish you wouldn't.’
                ‘It is only another method of showing my real views on the mental and physical
                    calibre of women. You must have read, my dear, of the wonderful recuperative
                    power which the lower animals have of
                    reproducing another tail when—ahem—by the way, this is not a safe spot! I
                    remember saying something of the same sort on purpose to annoy when we were here
                    before—’
                He paused, and looked down the narrow alley of the village to where the palace
                    was beginning to share the unreal beauty which the dust?cloud from the feet of
                    the homing cattle gave to the whole scene, by hiding the dull plain in a golden
                    mist that gave distance and height to the low sand?hillocks behind which the sun
                    was setting cloudlessly. A glorious sight! the dignity and calm majesty of which
                    lingers long in the memory of those who have seen it in India, day after day,
                    month after month; lingers to claim a higher place in the imagination than the
                    more varied and complex sunsets of the West with their stormy contrasts and
                    passionate beauty.
                ‘Leave me here,’ she said suddenly. ‘I should like it. I'll sit on that pile of
                    old potsherds, and wait till you come back. It will rest me.’
                It was peaceful enough of a certainty, and silent too. Only every now and again
                    the tinkle of a low?toned bell from some
                    leader of the herds below, chiming in on the musical moan of the potter's wheel
                    heard over the low wall.
                
                    ‘It was a woman seeking something.’
                
                The rhythm came back to her, stirring the old sense of curious unrest. Stirring
                    it in others of her sex also, if one might judge by the eyes which, seeing the
                    stranger alone, began to peer from the neighbouring hovels. Eyes followed by
                    figures; deep?bosomed mothers most of them, with a slim girl or two doing
                    nursemaid to other folks' babies.
                Nearer and nearer they came, attracted by the great feminine quality, until in
                    answer to Rose's nod of welcome and encouragement they squatted near, yet far,
                    gathered in as it were upon themselves, apart even from that other woman; even
                    from her, with the cares of coming motherhood writ clear upon her, and causing
                    her to look at those other mothers with kindly, friendly eyes.
                ‘Ari bahin!’ said one with a nudge to her neighbour. ‘'Tis for sure she who
                    played bat and ball last year like a boy. Wah! that is over; she knows her work
                    now.’
                ‘I trow not,’ replied another shrilly. ‘She
                    hath been sitting with the potter's eyes upon her this half hour past. She is
                    bad, caring but for her pleasure.’
                ‘Mayhap she knows not,’ said an older voice, ‘and they have no mothers, these
                    ones, nor mothers?in?law. Yea! 'tis true. My man went to dig for the sahibs the
                    year there was no corn in the land, and he hath told me. They marry of
                    themselves and there is none to see to them that they fall not into ignorant
                    mischief. It is fool's work.’
                ‘No mothers?in?law?’ tittered a bold?faced lump. ‘Ai teri! that is no fool's
                    work.’
                But the elder woman had risen, to stand a few steps nearer Rose, looking down at
                    her with dignified wonder.
                ‘May the Lord send a son,’ she began, going to the very root of the matter
                    without preamble.
                ‘I will take what He chooses to send me, mother,’ replied Rose, smiling.
                ‘Tsi?si?si!’ The matron's pliant forefinger wagged sideways, in that
                    most impressive gesture of denial never seen out of India.
                ‘Mention not such things, my daughter,’ went on the grave voice, ‘lest He take
                    thee at the word. Then what wouldst say? And
                    see! Go no more to the potter's yard. It is not safe. Wouldst have the son come
                    to thee with his mark on the breast? I trow not.’
                They had come forward one by one to cluster round the speaker, their dark
                    assenting eyes on Rose.
                ‘'Tis not to be helped, though,’ put in another. ‘Do I not know? I, Jewun, whose
                    son died of it this year; yet I remember the old ways and my mother's counsel.
                    Lo! it is Fate; naught else. And 'tis better to crack and be done with it. Then
                    folk know. Not like my new milk?jar this day. Sound to sight and touch, yet six
                    good quarts of milk spilled on the ground, as it crumbled like sand ere a body
                    could get a hand to it. The old man shall give me another in its place. It is
                    not fair.’
                ‘Nay! Mai Jewun,’ put in a third, ‘a pot comes to pieces ever; if not one, then
                    another way, when it is tired of going to the well for water. Thou hast naught
                    to complain about. Ai sisters! hither returns the sahib! He will be angry that
                    we have spoken to his mem.’
                ‘He will not be angry,’ protested Rose; but the
                    thought was beyond them. They were off swiftly, yet sedately, only the elder
                    woman pausing to waggle her finger again, and say, ‘Go not to the potter's. It
                    is not well. I, Junto, mother of seven, say so.’
                There were tears in Rose's eyes when Lewis came up and in consequence he did look
                    angrily at the retreating figures. She was pale and tired, he said, and must
                    send an excuse to Mrs. Dalel. He would not have her knocking herself up with
                    other folks' infants. So they went back quietly to the two white tents standing
                    beyond the Mori gate, where the pigeons, as of old, circled iridescent round the
                    dark niches. As of old, too, the clash of silver anklets came from the shadows,
                    since Chândni was back again in her old haunts; but with a recognised position,
                    for Her Highness Beatrice Elflida Norma was a shrewd little person, and knew
                    that she would need help to hold her own amid the intrigues of that
                    surely?coming long minority which lay in the future. It is a recurring fraction;
                    that long minority, in the problem of our dealings with petty principalities and
                    powers; for civilisation does not conduce to longevity with the native 
                        noble?
                        nobleman
                     man, and Dalel, with the income from
                    the stud farm, was diligently burning his feeble little constitution at both
                    ends. On the sly, however, for virtue, to all outward appearance, reigned at
                    Hodinuggur. Only that morning Rose had inspected a female school with rows of
                    nice little girls with very clean primers and brand?new slates. A brand?new
                    visitors' book, too, in which Rose had, with some misgivings, inscribed her name
                    at the end of a trite little remark on the blessings of education; for she was
                    only just beginning to make up her bundle of opinions, and was not quite sure of
                    them.
                But that night, as he was carefully guiding her steps through the maze of ropes
                    and pegs to the door of the sleeping?tent, she paused suddenly to say to her
                    husband—
                ‘Lewis! I'm glad we came here. I thought it would be so painful seeing George's
                    deserted grave and reviving the old memories; but it has only seemed to make it
                    all more natural, to make everything, somehow, more simple.’
                This, then, was what the years were bringing to Rose. She and Lewis were very
                    happy; though sometimes, especially when they were out in camp together, alone,
                    he would enter a feeble protest against her
                    lack of sentiment. When, after work and dinner were over, they sat beside the
                    roaring stove—the mingled lamplight and firelight making the tent cosy beyond
                    belief—and he, laying down the volume of Thackeray from which he was reading
                    aloud, would remark, for the hundredth time, that Rose was like one of his
                    favourite heroines.
                ‘If you say those stupid things, Lewis,’ she would reply, ‘I will make you read
                    shilling shockers, and then you can't—or I hope you won't.’
                ‘Oh! it is all very well to scoff,’ he would continue in injured tones, ‘but I am
                    the victim of an unrequited attachment. You are the heroine of my romance
                    always, and you never had a romance at all.’
                ‘Well, dear! that is better than having one with some one else, isn't it?’ she
                    would reply placidly, and Lewis's hand would reach out to touch the one which
                    was so busy with needles, and thimbles, and threads—just to touch it for an
                    instant, in a certain shamefast, deprecatory acknowledgment of her wisdom. For
                    he knew quite well that he, like most men, had had several romances in his life,
                    and that the possibility of several more
                    remained in him. Whether the climax of Rose's dream of the future ever came
                    about, and the boys got into scrapes, cannot be told; for the simple reason that
                    Lewis himself is still within the torrid zone of life. But he does his best to
                    prepare for the crisis, and he follows his wife's lead in this; that he finds
                    life more simple and less sad as time goes on and he faces its facts less
                    egotistically.
                Gwen Boynton, however, found it quite the reverse. She married Colonel Tweedie
                    two years after Dan's death, having, she said, buried all thoughts of personal
                    happiness in the grave of the only man she had ever loved. This, as usual with
                    Gwen's remarks, was true in itself, and yet left her free to marry for position
                    without remorse; or rather, accurately speaking, to utilise her regrets as a
                    motive for doing what she wanted to do without remorse. So she made Colonel
                    Tweedie an excellent wife, much to his delight and comfort, for as Rose
                    acknowledged, he sorely needed some one to keep him from fussing when she had
                    gone to perform the same kind office to Lewis. Nevertheless, Gwen Boynton, when
                    she came back to society after the shock of
                    Dan's death, had lost some of her charm, and, from being a fascinating woman,
                    had become elegant and interesting, as befitted one with a history. Life, she
                    said, was so mysterious; Humanity a mere shuttlecock in the hand of Fate beaten
                    backwards and forwards by devastating passions! Altogether the world was a sad
                    sojourning in which a vague mysticism was the only anodyne for the
                    sensitive.
                She became a half?hearted disciple of Madame Blavatsky's, and reached what may be
                    called the climax of her kindly, absolutely untrustworthy nature, when with
                    tears in her eyes and much gentle mournful resignation to the mysterious
                    inevitable, she would tell the story which she had heard from Rose, of how Dan
                    Fitzgerald and George Keene had been measured for heroes in the potter's yard,
                    and of their sad deaths within the year. Of course it was incredible; and
                    yet—?
                Thus, none of the actors in the little drama ever knew the whole truth about it.
                    Gwen had the best chance so far as facts went, but she, being handicapped by her
                    method of vision, failed to see her real part in the tragedy; for she resolutely set aside the possibilities of that
                    hour during which her dandy waited outside the
                    dressmaker's.
                Besides, she knew no more than the rest of the other key to the position which
                    lay in Azizan's love for George. And this was hidden even from him, though every
                    night, winter and summer, an odd little light—like a lost star—twinkled on the
                    summit of the shadowy Mound of Hodinuggur. It was the oil?cresset which the old
                    potter put nightly on Azizan's grave to prevent her from having bad dreams. The
                    branded brick bungalow was empty and deserted now that the sluice?gate required
                    no guarding, so there was no one to see its feeble yet persistent light; still
                    it could be seen distinctly from the little enclosure where, on a white marble
                    slab, the legend ran— 
                        ‘St. George Keene, aged 21,
                        Who died alone at his post.’
                     And between the two graves the gleaming streak of the big canal lay like a
                    sword splitting the world into East and West.
            
            END OF VOLUME III.
        
    
