
     ----CITATION----
        Braddon, M.E. (Mary Elizabeth) (1837-1915). Lady Audley's Secret, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 335 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (24-November-1998 ).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7086
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET. 
                
                BY M.E. BRADDON, AUTHOR OF “AURORA FLOYD.”
                IN THREE VOLUMES.
                VOL. I.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    TINSLEY BROTHERS,
                        8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.
                
                1862.
                [The right of Translation is reserved.]
                
                
                    LONDON: BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.
                
            
            
            
                Dedicated TO THE RIGHT HON. SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON, BART., M.P., D.C.L.,
                    &c., &c., IN GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF LITERARY ADVICE MOST
                    GENEROUSLY GIVEN TO THE AUTHOR.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    CHAPTER I. LUCY 1
                    CHAPTER II. ON BOARD THE ARGUS 26
                    CHAPTER III. HIDDEN RELICS 48
                    CHAPTER IV. IN THE FIRST PAGE OF THE “TIMES” 63
                    CHAPTER V. THE HEADSTONE AT VENTNOR 74
                    CHAPTER VI. ANYWHERE, ANYWHERE OUT OF THE WORLD 86
                    CHAPTER VII. AFTER A YEAR 97
                    CHAPTER VIII. BEFORE THE STORM 121
                    CHAPTER IX. AFTER THE STORM 146
                    CHAPTER X. MISSING 161
                    
                    CHAPTER XI. THE MARK UPON MY LADY'S WRIST 170
                    CHAPTER XII. STILL MISSING 182
                    CHAPTER XIII. TROUBLED DREAMS 193
                    CHAPTER XIV. PHŒBE'S SUITOR 207
                    CHAPTER XV. ON THE WATCH 223
                    CHAPTER XVI. ROBERT AUDLEY GETS HIS CONGÉ 246
                    CHAPTER XVII. AT THE CASTLE INN 265
                    CHAPTER XVIII. ROBERT RECEIVES A VISITOR WHOME HE HAD SCARCELY EXPECTED
                        278
                    CHAPTER XIX. THE BLACKSMITH'S MISTAKE 291
                
            
        
        
        
            LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                LUCY.
                IT lay down in a hollow, rich with fine old timber and luxuriant
                    pastures; and you came upon it through an avenue of limes, bordered on either
                    side by meadows, over the high hedges of which the cattle looked inquisitively
                    at you as you passed, wondering, perhaps, what you wanted; for there was no
                    thoroughfare, and unless you were going to the Court you had no business there
                    at all.
                At the end of this avenue there was an old arch and a clock-tower, with a stupid,
                    bewildering clock, which had only one hand; and which jumped straight from one hour to the next, and was
                    therefore always in extremes. Through this arch you walked straight into the
                    gardens of Audley Court.
                A smooth lawn lay before you, dotted with groups of rhododendrons, which grew in
                    more perfection here than anywhere else in the county. To the right there were
                    the kitchen gardens, the fish-pond, and an orchard bordered by a dry moat, and a
                    broken ruin of a wall, in some places thicker than it was high, and everywhere
                    overgrown with trailing ivy, yellow stonecrop, and dark moss. To the left there
                    was a broad gravelled walk, down which, years ago, when the place had been a
                    convent, the quiet nuns had walked hand in hand; a wall bordered with espaliers,
                    and shadowed on one side by goodly oaks, which shut out the flat landscape, and
                    circled in the house and gardens with a darkening shelter.
                The house faced the arch, and occupied three sides of a quadrangle. It was very
                    old, and very irregular and rambling. The windows were uneven; some small, some large, some with heavy stone
                    mullions and rich stained glass; others with frail lattices that rattled in
                    every breeze; others so modern that they might have been added only yesterday.
                    Great piles of chimneys rose up here and there behind the pointed gables, and
                    seemed as if they were so broken down by age and long service, that they must
                    have fallen but for the straggling ivy which, crawling up the walls and trailing
                    even over the roof, wound itself about them and supported them. The principal
                    door was squeezed into a corner of a turret at one angle of the building, as if
                    it was in hiding from dangerous visitors, and wished to keep itself a secret—a
                    noble door for all that—old oak, and studded with great square-headed iron
                    nails, and so thick that the sharp iron knocker struck upon it with a muffled
                    sound, and the visitor rang a clanging bell that dangled in a corner amongst the
                    ivy, lest the noise of the knocking should never penetrate the stronghold.
                A glorious old place—a place that visitors fell into raptures with; feeling a
                    yearning wish to have done with life, and to
                    stay there forever, staring into the cool fish-ponds, and counting the bubbles
                    as the roach and carp rose to the surface of the water—a spot in which peace
                    seemed to have taken up her abode, setting her soothing hand on every tree and
                    flower; on the still ponds and quiet alleys; the shady corners of the
                    old-fashioned rooms; the deep window-seats behind the painted glass; the low
                    meadows and the stately avenues—ay, even upon the stagnant well, which, cool and
                    sheltered as all else in the old place, hid itself away in a shrubbery behind
                    the gardens, with an idle handle that was never turned, and a lazy rope so
                    rotten that the pail had broken away from it, and had fallen into the water.
                A noble place; inside as well as out, a noble place—a house in which you
                    incontinently lost yourself if ever you were so rash as to go about it alone; a
                    house in which no one room had any sympathy with another, every chamber running
                    off at a tangent into an inner chamber, and through that down some narrow
                        staircase leading to a door which, in its
                    turn, led back into that very part of the house from which you thought yourself
                    the furthest; a house that could never have been planned by any mortal
                    architect, but must have been the handiwork of that good old builder—Time, who,
                    adding a room one year, and knocking down a room another year, toppling down a
                    chimney coeval with the Plantagenets, and setting up one in the style of the
                    Tudors; shaking down a bit of Saxon wall there,and allowing a Norman arch to
                    stand here; throwing in a row of high narrow windows in the reign of Queen Anne,
                    and joining on a dining-room after the fashion of the time of Hanoverian George
                    I. to a refectory that had been standing since the Conquest, had contrived, in
                    some eleven centuries, to run up such a mansion as was not elsewhere to be met
                    with throughout the county of Essex. Of course, in such a house there were
                    secret chambers: the little daughter of the present owner, Sir Michael Audley,
                    had fallen by accident upon the discovery of one. A board had rattled under
                        her feet in the great nursery where she
                    played, and on attention being drawn to it, it was found to be loose, and so
                    removed, revealing a ladder leading to a hiding-place between the floor of the
                    nursery and the ceiling of the room below—a hiding-place so small that he who
                    hid there must have crouched on his hands and knees or lain at full length, and
                    yet large enough to contain a quaint old carved oak chest half filled with
                    priests' vestments which had been hidden away, no doubt, in those cruel days
                    when the life of a man was in danger if he was discovered to have harboured a
                    Roman Catholic priest, or to have had mass said in his house.
                The broad outer moat was dry and grass-grown, and the laden trees of the orchard
                    hung over it with gnarled straggling branches that drew fantastical patterns
                    upon the green slope. Within this moat there was, as I have said, the
                    fish-pond—a sheet of water that extended the whole length of the garden, and
                    bordering which there was an avenue called the lime-tree walk; an avenue so
                    shaded from the sun and sky, so screened from
                    observation by the thick shelter of the over-arching trees, that it seemed a
                    chosen place for secret meetings or for stolen interviews; a place in which a
                    conspiracy might have been planned or a lover's vow registered with equal
                    safety; and yet it was scarcely twenty paces from the house.
                At the end of this dark arcade there was the shrubbery, where, half buried among
                    the tangled branches and the neglected weeds, stood the rusty wheel of that old
                    well of which I have spoken. It had been of good service in its time, no doubt;
                    and busy nuns have perhaps drawn the cool water with their own fair hands; but
                    it had fallen with disuse now, and scarcely any one at Audley Court knew whether
                    the spring had dried up or not. But sheltered as was the solitude of this
                    lime-tree walk, I doubt very much if it was ever put to any romantic uses. Often
                    in the cool of the evening Sir Michael Audley would stroll up and down smoking
                    his cigar, with his dog at his heels, and his pretty young wife dawdling by his
                    side; but in about ten minutes the baronet and
                    his companion would grow tired of the rustling limes and the still water, hidden
                    under the spreading leaves of the water-lilies, and the long green vista with
                    the broken well at the end, and would stroll back to the white drawing-room,
                    where my lady played dreamy melodies by Beethoven and Mendelssohn till her
                    husband fell asleep in his easy-chair.
                Sir Michael Audley was fifty-six years of age, and he had married a second wife
                    three months after his fifty-fifth birthday. He was a big man, tall and stout,
                    with a deep sonorous voice, handsome black eyes, and a white beard—a white beard
                    which made him look venerable against his will, for he was as active as a boy,
                    and one of the hardest riders in the county. For seventeen years he had been a
                    widower with an only child, a daughter, Alicia Audley, now eighteen, and by no
                    means too well pleased at having a step-mother brought home to the Court; for
                    Miss Alicia had reigned supreme in her father's house since her earliest
                    childhood, and had carried the keys, and jingled them in the pockets of her silk
                        aprons, and lost them in the shrubbery, and
                    dropped them into the pond, and given all manner of trouble about them from the
                    hour in which she entered her teens, and had on that account deluded herself
                    into the sincere belief that for the whole of that period she had been keeping
                    house.
                But Miss Alicia's day was over; and now, when she asked anything of the
                    housekeeper, the housekeeper would tell her that she would speak to my lady, or
                    she would consult my lady, and if my lady pleased it should be done. So the
                    baronet's daughter, who was an excellent horsewoman and a very clever artist,
                    spent most of her time out of doors, riding about the green lanes, and sketching
                    the cottage children, and the ploughboys, and the cattle, and all manner of
                    animal life that came in her way. She set her face with a sulky determination
                    against any intimacy between herself and the baronet's young wife; and amiable
                    as that lady was, she found it quite impossible to overcome Miss Alicia's
                    prejudices and dislike; or to convince the spoilt girl that she had not done her
                    a cruel injury by marrying Sir Michael Audley.
                
                The truth was that Lady Audley had, in becoming the wife of Sir Michael, made one
                    of those apparently advantageous matches which are apt to draw upon a woman the
                    envy and hatred of her sex. She had come into the neighborhood as a governess in
                    the family of a surgeon in the village near Audley Court. No one knew anything
                    of her except that she came in answer to an advertisement which Mr. Dawson, the
                    surgeon, had inserted in the Times. She came from London; and the
                    only reference she gave was to a lady at a school at Brompton, where she had
                    once been a teacher. But this reference was so satisfactory that none other was
                    needed, and Miss Lucy Graham was received by the surgeon as the instructress of
                    his daughters. Her accomplishments were so brilliant and numerous, that it
                    seemed strange that she should have answered an advertisement offering such very
                    moderate terms of remuneration as those named by Mr. Dawson: but Miss Graham
                    seemed perfectly well satisfied with her situation, and she taught the girls to
                    play sonatas by Beethoven, and to paint from
                    Nature after Creswick, and walked through the dull, out-of-the-way village to
                    the humble little church three times on Sunday, as contentedly as if she had no
                    higher aspiration in the world than to do so all the rest of her life.
                People who observed this accounted for it by saying that it was a part of her
                    amiable and gentle nature always to be lighthearted, happy, and contented under
                    any circumstances.
                Wherever she went she seemed to take joy and brightness with her. In the cottages
                    of the poor her fair face shone like a sunbeam. She would sit for a quarter of
                    an hour talking to some old woman, and apparently as pleased with the admiration
                    of a toothless crone as if she had been listening to the compliments of a
                    marquis; and when she tripped away, leaving nothing behind her (for her poor
                    salary gave no scope to her benevolence), the old woman would burst out into
                    senile raptures with her grace, her beauty, and her kindliness, such as she
                    never bestowed upon the vicar's wife, who half fed and clothed her. For you see
                    Miss Lucy Graham was blessed with that magic
                    power of fascination by which a woman can charm with a word or intoxicate with a
                    smile. Every one loved, admired, and praised her. The boy who opened the
                    five-barred gate that stood in her pathway ran home to his mother to tell of her
                    pretty looks, and the sweet voice in which she thanked him for the little
                    service. The verger at the church who ushered her into the surgeon's pew; the
                    vicar who saw the soft blue eyes uplifted to his face as he preached his simple
                    sermon; the porter from the railway station who brought her sometimes a letter
                    or a parcel, and who never looked for reward from her; her employer; his
                    visitors; her pupils; the servants; everybody, high and low, united in declarng
                    that Lucy Graham was the sweetest girl that ever lived.
                Perhaps it was this cry which penetrated into the quiet chambers of Audley Court;
                    or perhaps it was the sight of her pretty face, looking over the surgeon's high
                    pew every Sunday morning. However it was, it was certain that Sir Michael Audley
                    suddenly experienced a strong desire to be
                    better acquainted with Mr. Dawson's governess.
                He had only to hint this to the worthy doctor for a little party to be got up, to
                    which the vicar and his wife, and the baronet and his daughter, were
                    invited.
                That one quiet evening sealed Sir Michael's fate. He could no more resist the
                    tender fascination of those soft and melting blue eyes; the graceful beauty of
                    that slender throat and drooping head, with its wealth of showering flaxen
                    curls; the low music of that gentle voice; the perfect harmony which pervaded
                    every charm, and made all doubly charming in this woman; than he could resist
                    his destiny! Destiny! Why, she was his destiny! He had never loved before. What
                    had been his marriage with Alicia's mother but a dull, jog-trot bargain, made to
                    keep some estate in the family that would have been just as well out of it? What
                    had been his love for his first wife but a poor, pitiful, smouldering spark, too
                    dull to be extinguished, too feeble to burn? But this was love—this
                    fever, this longing, this restless, uncertain,
                    miserable hesitation; these cruel fears that his age was an insurmountable
                    barrier to his happiness; this sick hatred of his white beard; this frenzied
                    wish to be young again, with glistening raven hair, and a slim waist, such as he
                    had had twenty years before; these wakeful nights and melancholy days, so
                    gloriously brightened if he chanced to catch a glimpse of her sweet face behind
                    the window curtains as he drove past the surgeon's house; all these signs gave
                    token of the truth; and told only too plainly that, at the sober age of
                    fifty-five, Sir Michael Audley had fallen ill of the terrible fever called
                    love.
                I do not think that throughout his courtship the baronet once calculated upon his
                    wealth or his position as a strong reason for his success. If he ever remembered
                    these things, he dismissed the thought of them with a shudder. It pained him too
                    much to believe for a moment that any one so lovely and innocent could value
                    herself against a splendid house or a good old title. No; his hope was that as
                    her life had been most likely one of toil and
                    dependence, and as she was very young (nobody exactly knew her age, but she
                    looked little more than twenty), she might never have formed any attachment, and
                    that he, being the first to woo her, might by tender attentions, by generous
                    watchfulness, by a love which should recall to her the father she had lost, and
                    by a protecting care that should make him necessary to her, win her young heart,
                    and obtain from her fresh and earliest love alone the promise of her hand. It
                    was a very romantic day-dream, no doubt; but, for all that, it seemed in a very
                    fair way to be realised. Lucy Graham appeared by no means to dislike the
                    baronet's attentions. There was nothing whatever in her manner of the shallow
                    artifice employed by a woman who wishes to captivate a rich man. She was so used
                    to admiration from every one, high and low, that Sir Michael's conduct made very
                    little impression upon her. Again, he had been so many years a widower that
                    people had given up the idea of his ever marrying again. At last, however, Mrs.
                    Dawson spoke to the governess on the subject.
                    The surgeon's wife was sitting in the school-room busy at work, while Lucy was
                    putting the finishing touches to some water-coloured sketches done by her
                    pupils.
                “Do you know, my dear Miss Graham,” said Mrs. Dawson, “I think you ought to
                    consider yourself a remarkably lucky girl.”
                The governess lifted her head from its stooping attitude, and stared wonderingly
                    at her employer, shaking back a shower of curls. They were the most wonderful
                    curls in the world—soft and feathery, always floating away from her face, and
                    making a pale halo round her head when the sunlight shone through them.
                “What do you mean, my dear Mrs. Dawson?” she asked, dipping her camel's-hair
                    brush into the wet aquamarine upon the palette, and poising it carefully before
                    putting in the delicate streak of purple which was to brighten the horizon in
                    her pupil's sketch.
                “Why, I mean, my dear, that it only rests with yourself to become Lady Audley,
                    and the mistress of Audley Court.”
                
                Lucy Graham dropped the brush upon the picture, and flushed scarlet to the roots
                    of her fair hair; and then grew pale again, far paler than Mrs. Dawson had ever
                    seen her before.
                “My dear, don't agitate yourself,” said the surgeon's wife, soothingly; “you know
                    that nobody asks you to marry Sir Michael unless you wish. Of course it would be
                    a magnificent match; he has a splendid income, and is one of the most generous
                    of men. Your position would be very high, and you would be enabled to do a great
                    deal of good; but, as I said before, you must be entirely guided by your own
                    feelings. Only one thing I must say, and that is, that if Sir Michael's
                    attentions are not agreeable to you, it is really scarcely honorable to
                    encourage him.”
                “His attentions—encourage him!” muttered Lucy, as if the words bewildered her.
                    “Pray, pray don't talk to me, Mrs. Dawson. I had no idea of this. It is the last
                    thing that would have occurred to me.” She leaned her elbows on the
                    drawing-board before her, and clasping her hands over her face, seemed for some
                    minutes to be thinking deeply. She wore a
                    narrow black ribbon round her neck, with a locket or a cross, or a miniature,
                    perhaps, attached to it; but whatever the trinket was, she always kept it hidden
                    under her dress. Once or twice, while she sat silently thinking, she removed one
                    of her hands from before her face, and fidgeted nervously with the ribbon,
                    clutching at it with a half-angry gesture, and twisting it backwards and
                    forwards between her fingers.
                “I think some people are born to be unlucky, Mrs. Dawson,” she said, by-and-by;
                    “it would be a great deal too much good fortune for me to become Lady
                    Audley.”
                She said this with so much bitterness in her tone, that the surgeon's wife looked
                    up at her with surprise.
                “You unlucky, my dear!” she exclaimed. “I think you're the last person who ought
                    to talk like that—you, such a bright, happy creature, that it does every one
                    good to see you. I'm sure I don't know what we shall do if Sir Michael robs us
                    of you.”
                
                After this conversation they often spoke upon the subject, and Lucy never again
                    showed any emotion whatever when the baronet's admiration for her was canvassed.
                    It was a tacitly understood thing in the surgeon's family that whenever Sir
                    Michael proposed, the governess would quietly accept him; and, indeed, the
                    simple Dawsons would have thought it something more than madness in a penniless
                    girl to reject such an offer.
                So one misty June evening Sir Michael, sitting opposite to Lucy Graham at a
                    window in the surgeon's little drawing-room, took an opportunity, while the
                    family happened by some accident to be absent from the room, of speaking upon
                    the subject nearest to his heart. He made the governess in few but solemn words
                    an offer of his hand. There was something almost touching in the manner and tone
                    in which he spoke to her—half in deprecation, knowing that he could hardly
                    expect to be the choice of a beautiful young girl, and praying rather that she
                    would reject him, even though she broke his heart by doing so, than that she should accept his offer if
                    she did not love him.
                “I scarcely think there is a greater sin, Lucy,” he said solemnly, “than that of
                    a woman who marries a man she does not love. You are so precious to me, my
                    beloved, that deeply as my heart is set on this, and bitter as the mere thought
                    of disappointment is to me, I would not have you commit such a sin for any
                    happiness of mine. If my happiness could be achieved by such an act, which it
                    could not—which it never could,” he repeated earnestly, “nothing but misery can
                    result from a marriage dictated by any motive but truth and love.”
                Lucy Graham was not looking at Sir Michael, but straight out into the misty
                    twilight and dim landscape far away beyond the little garden. The baronet tried
                    to see her face, but her profile was turned to him, and he could not discover
                    the expression of her eyes. If he could have done so, he would have seen a
                    yearning gaze which seemed as if it would have pierced the far obscurity and
                    looked away—away into another world.
                
                “Lucy, you heard me?”
                “Yes,” she said gravely; not coldly, or in any way as if she were offended at his
                    words.
                “And your answer?”
                She did not remove her gaze from the darkening country side, but for some moments
                    was quite silent; then turning to him with a sudden passion in her manner, that
                    lighted up her face with a new and wonderful beauty which the baronet perceived
                    even in the growing twilight, she fell on her knees at his feet.
                “No, Lucy; no, no!” he cried, vehemently, “not here, not here!”
                “Yes, here, here,” she said, the strange passion which agitated her making her
                    voice sound shrill and piercing—not loud, but preternaturally distinct; “here
                    and nowhere else. How good you are—how noble and how generous! Love you! Why,
                    there are women a hundred times my superiors in beauty and in goodness who might
                    love you dearly; but you ask too much of me. You ask too much of
                    me! Remember what my life has been; only remember that. From my  very babyhood I have never seen anything but
                    poverty. My father was a gentleman; clever, accomplished, generous, handsome—but
                    poor. My mother—But do not let me speak of her. Poverty, poverty, trials,
                    vexations, humiliations, deprivations! You cannot tell; you, who
                    are amongst those for whom life is so smooth and easy; you can never guess what
                    is endured by such as we. Do not ask too much of me, then. I cannot
                    be disinterested; I cannot be blind to the advantages of such an alliance. I
                    cannot, I cannot!”
                Beyond her agitation and her passionate vehemence, there was an undefined
                    something in her manner which filled the baronet with a vague alarm. She was
                    still on the ground at his feet, crouching rather than kneeling, her thin white
                    dress clinging about her, her pale hair streaming over her shoulders, her great
                    blue eyes glittering in the dusk, and her hands clutching at the black ribbon
                    about her throat, as if it had been strangling her.
                “Don't ask too much of me,” she kept  repeating;
                    “I have been selfish from my babyhood.”
                “Lucy, Lucy, speak plainly. Do you dislike me?”
                “Dislike you! No-no!”
                “But is there any one else whom you love?”
                She laughed aloud at his question. “I do not love any one in the world,” she
                    answered.
                He was glad of her reply; and yet that and the strange laugh jarred upon his
                    feelings. He was silent for some moments, and then said with a kind of
                    effort,—
                “Well, Lucy, I will not ask too much of you. I dare say I am a romantic old fool;
                    but if you do not dislike me, and if you do not love any one else, I see no
                    reason why we should not make a very happy couple. Is it a bargain, Lucy?”
                “Yes.”
                The baronet lifted her in his arms, and kissed her once upon the forehead; then,
                    after quietly bidding her good-night, he walked straight out of the house.
                He walked straight out of the house, this 
                    foolish old man, because there was some strong emotion at work in his
                    heart—neither joy, nor triumph, but something almost akin to disappointment;
                    some stifled and unsatisfied longing which lay heavy and dull at his heart, as
                    if he had carried a corpse in his bosom. He carried the corpse of that hope
                    which had died at the sound of Lucy's words. All the doubts and fears and timid
                    aspirations were ended now. He must be contented, like other men of his age, to
                    be married for his fortune and his position.
                Lucy Graham went slowly up the stairs to her little room at the top of the house.
                    She placed her dim candle on the chest of drawers, and seated herself on the
                    edge of the white bed; still and white as the draperies hanging around her.
                “No more dependence, no more drudgery, no more humiliations,” she said; “every
                    trace of the old life melted away—every clue to identity buried and
                    forgotten—except these, except these.”
                She had never taken her left hand from the black ribbon at her throat. She drew
                    it from  her bosom as she spoke, and looked at
                    the object attached to it.
                It was neither a locket, a miniature, nor a cross: it was a ring wrapped in an
                    oblong piece of paper—the paper partly printed, partly written, yellow with age,
                    and crumpled with much folding.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                ON BOARD THE ARGUS.
                HE threw the end of his cigar into the water, and leaning his elbows
                    upon the bulwarks, stared meditatively at the waves.
                “How wearisome they are,” he said; “blue, and green, and opal; opal, and blue,
                    and green; all very well in their way, of course, but three months of them are
                    rather too much, especially—”
                He did not attempt to finish his sentence; his thoughts seemed to wander in the
                    very midst of it, and carry him a thousand miles or so away.
                “Poor little girl, how pleased she'll be!” he muttered, opening his cigar case,
                    and lazily surveying its contents; “how pleased and how surprised! Poor little
                    girl! After three years and a half, too; she will be
                    surprised.”
                He was a young man of about five-and-twenty, with a dark face, bronzed by
                    exposure to the  sun; he had handsome brown
                    eyes, with a feminine smile in them, that sparkled through his black lashes, and
                    a bushy beard and moustache that covered the whole lower part of his face. He
                    was tall, and powerfully built; he wore a loose gray suit, and a felt hat,
                    thrown carelessly upon his black hair. His name was George Talboys, and he was
                    aft-cabin passenger on board the good ship Argus, laden with Australian wool,
                    and sailing from Sydney to Liverpool.
                There were very few passengers in the aft-cabin of the Argus. An elderly
                    wool-stapler, returning to his native country with his wife and daughters, after
                    having made a fortune in the colonies; a governess of five-and-thirty years of
                    age going home to marry a man to whom she had been engaged fifteen years; the
                    sentimental daughter of a wealthy Australian wine-merchant, invoiced to England
                    to finish her education, and George Talboys, were the only first-class
                    passengers on board.
                This George Talboys was the life and soul of the vessel; nobody knew who or what
                    he was, or where he came from, but everybody liked him.  He sat at the bottom of the dinner-table, and
                    assisted the captain in doing the honours of the friendly meal. He opened the
                    champagne bottles, and took wine with every one present; he told funny stories,
                    and led the laugh himself with such a joyous peal, that the man must have been a
                    churl who could not have laughed for pure sympathy. He was a capital hand at
                    speculation and vingt-et-un, and all the merry round games, which kept the
                    little circle round the cabin-lamp so deep in innocent amusement, that a
                    hurricane might have howled overhead without their hearing it; but he freely
                    owned that he had no talet for whist, and that he didn't know a knight from a
                    castle upon the chess-board.
                Indeed, Mr. Talboys was by no means too learned a gentleman. The pale governess
                    had tried to talk to him about fashionable literature, but George had only
                    pulled his beard, and stared very hard at her, saying occasionally, “Ah, yes!”
                    and, “To be sure, ha!”
                The sentimental young lady, going home to finish her education, had tried him
                    with Shelley and Byron, and he had fairly
                    laughed in her face, as if poetry where a joke. The wool-stapler sounded him
                    upon politics, but he did not seem very deeply versed in them; so they let him
                    go his own way, smoke his cigars and talk to the sailors, lounge over the
                    bulwarks and stare at the water, and make himself agreeable to everybody in his
                    own fashion. But when the Argus came to be within about a fortnight's sail of
                    England everybody noticed a change in George Talboys. He grew restless and
                    fidgety; sometimes so merry that the cabin rang with his laughter; sometimes
                    moody and thoughtful. Favourite as he was amongst the sailors, they grew tired
                    at last of answering his perpetual questions about the probable time of touching
                    land. Would it be in ten days, in eleven, in twelve, in thirteen? Was the wind
                    favorable? How many knots an hour was the vessel doing? Then a sudden passion
                    would seize him, and he would stamp upon the deck, crying out that she was a
                    rickety old craft, and that her owners were swindlers to advertise her as the
                    fast-sailing Argus. She was not fit for
                    passenger traffic; she was not fit to carry impatient living creatures, with
                    hearts and souls; she was fit for nothing but to be laden with bales of stupid
                    wool, that might rot on the sea and be none the worse for it.
                The sun was dropping down behind the waves as George Talboys lighted his cigar
                    upon this August evening. Only ten days more, the sailors had told him that
                    afternoon, and they would see the English coast. “I will go ashore in the first
                    boat that hails us,” he cried; “I will go ashore in a cockle-shell. By Jove, if
                    it comes to that, I will swim to land.”
                His friends in the aft-cabin, with the exception of the pale governess, laughed
                    at his impatience: she sighed as she watched the young man, chafing at the slow
                    hours, pushing away his untasted wine, flinging himself restlessly about upon
                    the cabin sofa, rushing up and down the companion ladder, and staring at the
                    waves.
                As the red rim of the sun dropped into the water, the governess ascended the
                    cabin stairs for a stroll on deck, while the passengers sat over  their wine below. She stopped when she came up to
                    George, and standing by his side, watched the fading crimson in the western
                    sky.
                The lady was very quiet and reserved, seldom sharing in the after-cabin
                    amusements, never laughing, and speaking very little; but she and George Talboys
                    had been excellent friends throughout the passage.
                “Does my cigar annoy you, Miss Morley?” he said, taking it out of his mouth.
                “Not at all; pray do not leave off smoking. I only came up to look at the sunset.
                    What a lovely evening!”
                “Yes, yes, I dare say,” he answered, impatiently; “yet so long, so long! Ten more
                    interminable days and ten more weary nights before we land.”
                “Yes,” said Miss Morley, sighing. “Do you wish the time shorter?”
                “Do I?” cried George; “Indeed I do. Don't you?”
                “Scarcely.”
                “But is there no one you love in England?  Is
                    there no one you love looking out for your arrival?”
                “I hope so,” she said gravely. They were silent for some time, he smoking his
                    cigar with a furious impatience, as if he could hasten the course of the vessel
                    by his own restlessness; she looking out at the waning light with melancholy
                    blue eyes: eyes that seemed to have faded with poring over closely-printed books
                    and difficult needlework; eyes that had faded a little, perhaps, by reason of
                    tears secretly shed in the dead hours of the lonely night.
                “See!” said George, suddenly pointing in another direction from that toward which
                    Miss Morley was looking, “there's the new moon.”
                She looked up at the pale crescent, her own face almost as pale and wan.
                “This is the first time we have seen it. We must wish!” said George.
                        “I know what I wish.”
                “What?”
                “That we may get home quickly.”
                “My wish is that we may find no disappointment when we get there,” said the
                    governess, sadly.
                
                “Disappointment!”
                He started as if he had been struck, and asked what she meant by talking of
                    disappointment.
                “I mean this,” she said, speaking rapidly, and with a restless motion of her thin
                    hands; “I mean that as the end of this long voyage draws near, hope sinks in my
                    heart: and a sick fear comes over me that at the last all may not be well. The
                    person I go to meet may be changed in his feelings towards me; or he may retain
                    all the old feeling until the moment of seeing me, and then lose it in a breath
                    at sight of my poor wan face, for I was called a pretty girl, Mr. Talboys, when
                    I sailed for Sydney, fifteen years ago; or he may be so changed by the world as
                    to have grown selfish and mercenary, and he may welcome me for the sake of my
                    fifteen years' savings. Again, he may be dead. He may have been well, perhaps,
                    up to within a week of our landing, and in that last week may have taken a
                    fever, and died an hour before our vessel anchors in the Mersey. I think of all
                    these things, Mr. Talboys, and act the scenes over in my mind, and  feel the anguish of them twenty times a day. Twenty
                    times a day!” she repeated; “why, I do it a thousand times a day.”
                George Talboys had stood motionless, with his cigar in his hand, listening to her
                    so intently that as she said the last words, his hold relaxed, and the cigar
                    dropped in the water.
                “I wonder,” she continued, more to herself than to him—“I wonder, looking back,
                    to think how hopeful I was when the vessel sailed; I never thought then of
                    disappointment, but I pictured the joy of meeting, imagining the very words that
                    would be said, the very tones, the very looks; but for this last month of the
                    voyage, day by day, and hour by hour, my heart sinks, and my hopeful fancies
                    fade away, and I dread the end as much as if I knew that I was
                    going to England to attend a funeral.”
                The young man suddenly changed his attitude, and turned his face full upon his
                    companion, with a look of alarm. She saw in the pale light that the color had
                    faded from his cheek.
                “What a fool!” he cried, striking his clinched 
                    fist upon the side of the vessel, “what a fool I am to be frightened at this!
                    Why do you come and say these things to me? Why do you come and terrify me out
                    of my senses, when I am going straight home to the woman I love; to a girl whose
                    heart is as true as the light of heaven; and in whom I no more expect to find
                    any change than I do to see anotber sun rise in to-morrow's sky? Why do you come
                    and try to put such fancies in my head, when I am going home to my darling
                    wife?”
                “Your wife,” she said; “that is different. There is no reason that my terrors
                    should terrify you. I am going to England to rejoin a man to whom I was engaged
                    to be married fifteen years ago. He was too poor to marry then, and when I was
                    offered a situation as governess in a rich Australian family, I persuaded him to
                    let me accept it, so that I might leave him free and unfettered to win his way
                    in the world, while I saved a little money to help us when we began life
                    together. I never meant to stay away so long, but things have gone badly with
                    him in  England. That is my story, and you can
                    understand my fears. They need not influence you. Mine is an exceptional
                    case.”
                “So is mine,” said George, impatiently. “I tell you that mine is an exceptional
                    case, although I swear to you that, until this moment, I have never known a fear
                    as to the result of my voyage home. But you are right; your terrors have nothing
                    to do with me. You have been away fifteen years; all kinds of things may happen
                    in fifteen years. Now, it is only three years and a-half this very month since I
                    left England. What can have happened in such a short time as that?”
                Miss Morley looked at him with a mournful smile, but did not speak. His feverish
                    ardour, the freshness and impatience of his nature were so strange and new to
                    her, that she looked at him half in admiration, half in pity.
                “My pretty little wife! My gentle, innocent, loving, little wife! Do you know,
                    Miss Morley,” he said, with all his old hopefulness of manner, “that I left my
                    little girl asleep, with her baby  in her arms,
                    and with nothing but a few blotted lines to tell her why her faithful husband
                    had deserted her?”
                “Deserted her!” exclaimed the governess.
                “Yes. I was a cornet in a cavalry regiment when I first met my little darling. We
                    were quartered at a stupid sea-port town, where my pet lived with her shabby old
                    father, a half-pay naval officer; a regular old humbug, as poor as Job, and with
                    an eye for nothing but the main chance. I saw through all his shallow tricks to
                    catch one of us for his pretty daughter. I saw all the pitiful, contemptible,
                    palpable traps he set for big dragoons to walk into. I saw through his
                    shabby-genteel dinners and public-house port; his fine talk of the grandeur of
                    his family; his sham pride and independence, and the sham tears in his bleared
                    old eyes when he talkled of his only child. He was a drunken old hypocrite, and
                    he was ready to sell my poor little girl to the highest bidder. Luckily for me,
                    I happened just then to be the highest bidder; for my father is a rich man, Miss
                    Morley, and as it was love  at first sight on
                    both sides, my darling and I made a match of it. No sooner, however, did my
                    father hear that I had married a penniless little girl, the daughter of a tipsy
                    old half-pay lieutenant, than he wrote me a furious letter, telling me he would
                    never again hold any communication with me, and that my yearly allowance would
                    stop from my wedding-day. As there was no remaining in such a regiment as mine,
                    with nothing but my pay to live on, and a pretty little wife to keep, I sold
                    out, thinking that before the money that I got for my commision was exhausted, I
                    should be sure to drop into something. I took my darling to Italy, and we lived
                    there in splendid style as long as my two thousand pounds lasted; but when that
                    began to dwindle down to a couple of hundred or so, we came back to England, and
                    as my darling had a fancy for being near that tiresome old father of hers, we
                    settled at the watering-place where he lived. Well, as soon as the old man heard
                    that I had a couple of hundred pounds left, he expressed a wonderful degree of
                    affection for us, and insisted on our boarding
                    in his house. We consented, still to please my darling, who had just then a
                    peculiar right to have every whim and fancy of her innocent heart indulged. We
                    did board with him, and finally he fleeced us; but when I spoke of it to my
                    little wife, she only shrugged her shoulders, and said she did not like to be
                    unkind to ‘poor papa.’ So poor papa made away with our little stock of money in
                    no time; and as I felt that it was now becoming necessary to look about for
                    something, I ran up to London, and tried to get a situation as a clerk in a
                    merchant's office, or as accountant, or book-keeper, or something of that kind.
                    But I suppose there was the stamp of a heavy dragoon upon me, for do what I
                    would I couldn't get anybody to believe in my capacity; and tired out, and
                    down-hearted, I returned to my darling, to find her nursing a son and heir to
                    his father's poverty. Poor little girl, she was very low-spirited; and when I
                    told her that my London expedition had failed, she fairly broke down, and burst
                    into a storm of sobs and lamentations, telling me that I ought not to  have married her if I could give her nothing but
                    poverty and misery; and that I had done her a cruel wrong in making her my wife.
                    By heaven! Miss Morley, her tears and reproaches drove me almost mad; and I flew
                    into a rage with her, myself, her father, the world, and everybody in it, and
                    then ran out of the house, declaring that I would never enter it again. I walked
                    about the streets all that day half out of my mind, and with a strong
                    inclination to throw myself into the sea, so as to leave my poor girl free to
                    make a better match. ‘If I drown myself, her father must support her,’ I
                    thought; ‘the old hypocrite could never refuse her a shelter, but while I live
                    she has no claim on him.’ I went down to a rickety old wooden pier, meaning to
                    wait there till it was dark, and then drop quietly over the end of it into the
                    water; but while I sat there smoking my pipe, and staring vacantly at the
                    sea-gulls, two men came down, and one of them began to talk of the Australian
                    gold-diggings, and the great things that were to be done there. It appeared that
                    he was going to sail in a day or  two, and he
                    was trying to persuade his companion to join him in the expedition.
                “I listened to these men for upwards of an hour, following them up and down the
                    pier with my pipe in my mouth, and hearing all their talk. After this I fell
                    into conversation with them myself, and ascertained that there was a vessel
                    going to leave Liverpool in three days, by which vessel one of the men was going
                    out. This man gave me all the information I required, and told me, moreover,
                    that a stalwart young fellow such as I was could hardly fail to do well in the
                    diggings. The thought flashed upon me so suddenly, that I grew hot and red in
                    the face, and trembled in every limb with excitement. This was better than the
                    water at any rate. Suppose I stole away from my darling, leaving her safe under
                    her father's roof, and went and made a fortune in the new world, and came back
                    in a twelvemonth to throw it into her lap; for I was so sanguine in those days
                    that I counted on making my fortune in a year or so. I thanked the man for his
                    information, and late at night  strolled
                    homewards. It was bitter winter weather, but I had been too full of passion to
                    feel cold, and I walked through the quiet streets, with the snow drifting in my
                    face, and a desperate hopefulness in my heart. The old man was sitting drinking
                    brandy-and-water in his little dining-room; and my wife was up-stairs, sleeping
                    peacefully with the baby on her breast. I sat down and wrote a few brief lines,
                    which told her that I never had loved her better than now when I seemed to
                    desert her; that I was going to try my fortune in the new world; and that if I
                    succeeded I should come back to bring her plenty and happiness, but that if I
                    failed I should never look upon her face again. I divided the remainder of our
                    money—something over forty pounds—into two equal portions, leaving one for her,
                    and putting the other in my pocket. I knelt down and prayed for my wife and
                    child, with my head upon the white counterpane that covered them. I wasn't much
                    of a praying man at ordinary times, but God knows that was a
                    heartfelt prayer. I kissed her once and the baby once, and then crept  out of the room. The dining-room door was open, and
                    the old man was nodding over his paper. He looked up as he heard my step in the
                    passage, and asked me where I was going. ‘To have a smoke in the street,’ I
                    answered; and as this was a common habit of mine, he believed me. Three nights
                    after this I was out at sea, bound for Melbourne—a steerage passenger, with a
                    digger's tools for my baggage, and about seven shillings in my pocket.”
                “And you succeeded?” asked Miss Morley.
                “Not till I had long despaired of success; not until poverty and I had become
                    such old companions and bed-fellows, that, looking back at my past life, I
                    wondered whether that dashing, reckless, extravagant, luxurious,
                    champagne-drinking dragoon could have really been the same man who sat on the
                    damp ground gnawing a moldy crust in the wilds of the new world. I clung to the
                    memory of my darling, and the trust that I had in her love and truth, as the one
                    keystone that kept the fabric of my past life together—the one star that lit the
                    thick black darkness of the  future. I was hail
                    fellow well met with bad men; I was in the centre of riot, drunkenness, and
                    debauchery; but the purifying influence of my love kept me safe from all. Thin
                    and gaunt, the half-starved shadow of what I once had been, I saw myself one day
                    in a broken bit of looking-glass, and was frightened of my own face. But I
                    toiled on through all; through disappointment and despair, rheumatism, fever,
                    starvation, at the very gates of death, I toiled on steadily to the end; and in
                    the end I conquered.”
                He was so brave in his energy and determination, in his proud triumph of success,
                    and in the knowledge of the difficulties he had vanquished, that the pale
                    governess could only look at him in wondering admiration.
                “How brave you were!” she said.
                “Brave!” he cried, with a joyous peal of laughter; “wasn't I working for my
                    darling? Through all the dreary time of that probation, her pretty white hand
                    beckoning me onwards to a happy future? Why, I have seen her under my wretched
                    canvas tent, sitting by my side, with  her boy
                    in her arms, as plainly as I had ever seen her in the one happy year of our
                    wedded life. At last, one dreary, foggy morning, just three months ago; with a
                    drizzling rain wetting me to the skin; up to my neck in clay and mire;
                    half-starved; enfeebled by fever; stiff with rheumatism; a monster nugget turned
                    up under my spade, and I came upon a gold deposit of some magnitude. A fortnight
                    afterwards I was the richest man in all the little colony about me. I travalled
                    post-haste to Sydney, realised my gold findings which were worth upwards of
                    £20,000, and a fortnight afterwards took my passage for England in this vessel;
                    and in ten days—in ten days I shall see my darling.”
                “But in all that time did you never write to your wife?”
                “Never till a week before this vessel set sail. I could not write when everything
                    looked so black. I could not write and tell her that I was fighting hard with
                    despair and death. I waited for better fortune; and when that came, I wrote,
                    telling her that I should be in England almost as  soon as my letter, and giving her an address at a
                    coffee-house in London, where she could write to me, telling me where to find
                    her; though she is hardly likely to have left her father's house.”
                He fell into a reverie after this, and puffed meditatively at his cigar. His
                    companion did not disturb him. The last ray of the summer daylight had died out,
                    and the pale light of the crescent moon only remained.
                Presently George Talboys flung away his cigar, and, turning to the governes,
                    cried abruptly, “Miss Morley, if, when I get to England, I hear that anything
                    has happened to my wife, I shall fall down dead.”
                “My dear Mr. Talboys, why do you think of these things? God is very good to us;
                    He will not afflict us beyond our power of endurance. I see all things, perhaps,
                    in a melancholy light; for the long monotony of my life has given me too much
                    time to think over my troubles.”
                “And my life has been all action, priva- tion,
                    toil, alternate hope and despair; I have had no time to think upon the chances
                    of anything happening to my darling. What a blind, reckless fool I have been!
                    Three years and a half, and not one line, one word from her, or from any mortal
                    creature who knows her. Heaven above! what may not have happened?”
                In the agitation of his mind he began to walk rapidly up and down the lonely
                    deck, the governess following, and trying to soothe him.
                “I swear to you, Miss Morley,” he said, “that, till you spoke to me to-night, I
                    never felt one shadow of fear; and now I have that sick, sinking dread at my
                    heart, which you talked of an hour ago. Let me alone, please, to get over it my
                    own way.”
                She drew silently away from him, and seated herself by the side of the vessel,
                    looking over into the water.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                HIDDEN RELICS.
                THE same August sun which had gone down behind the waste of waters
                    glimmered redly upon the broad face of the old clock over that ivy-covered
                    archway which leads into the gardens of Audley Court.
                A fierce and crimson sunset. The mullioned windows and the twinkling lattices are
                    all ablaze with the red glory; the fading light flickers upon the leaves of the
                    limes in the long avenue, and changes the still fish-pond into a sheet of
                    burnished copper; even into those dim recesses of briar and brushwood, amidst
                    which the old well is hidden, the crimson brightness penetrates in fitful
                    flashes, till the dank weeds and the rusty iron wheel and broken woodwork seem
                    as if they were flecked with blood.
                The lowing of a cow in the quiet meadows, the
                    splash of a trout in the fish-pond, the last notes of a tired bird, the creaking
                    of waggon-wheels upon the distant road, every now and then breaking the evening
                    silence, only made the stillness of the place seem more intense. It was almost
                    oppressive, this twilight stillness. The very repose of the place grew painful
                    from its intensity, and you felt as if a corpse must be lying somewhere within
                    that gray and ivy-covered pile of building—so deathlike was the tranqullity of
                    all around.
                As the clock over the archway struck eight, a door at the back of the house was
                    softly opened, and a girl came out into the gardens.
                But even the presence of a human being scarcely broke the silence; for the girl
                    crept slowly over the thick grass, and gliding into the avenue by the side of
                    the fish-pond, disappeared under the rich shelter of the limes.
                She was not, perhaps, positively a pretty girl; but her appearance was of that
                    order which is commonly called interesting. Interesting, it may be, because in
                    the pale face and the light grey eyes, the small features and compressed
                        lips, there was something which hinted at a
                    power of repression and self-control not common in a woman of nineteen or
                    twenty. She might have been pretty, I think, but for the one fault in her small
                    oval face. This fault was an absence of colour. Not one tinge of crimson flushed
                    the waxen whiteness of her cheeks; not one shadow of brown redeemed the pale
                    insipidity of her eyebrows and eyelashes; not one glimmer of gold or auburn
                    relieved the dull flaxen of her hair. Even her dress was spoiled by this same
                    deficiency; the pale lavender muslin faded into a sickly grey, and the ribbon
                    knotted round her throat melted into the same neutral hue.
                Her figure was slim and fragile, and in spite of her humble dress, she had
                    something of the grace and carriage of a gentlewoman; but she was only a simple
                    country girl, called Phœbe Marks, who had been nursemaid in Mr. Dawson's family,
                    and whom Lady Audley had chosen for her maid after her marriage with Sir
                    Michael.
                Of course this was a wonderful piece of good fortune for Phœbe, who found her
                    wages trebled and her work light in the
                    well-ordered household at the Court; and who was therefore quite as much the
                    object of envy amongst her particular friends as my lady herself in higher
                    circles.
                A man who was sitting on the broken wood-work of the well started as the
                    lady's-maid came out of the dim shade of the limes and stood before him amongst
                    the weeds and brushwood.
                I have said before that this was a neglected spot: it lay in the midst of a low
                    shrubbery, hidden away from the rest of the gardens, and only visible from the
                    garret windows at the back of the west wing. “Why, Phœbe,” said the man,
                    shutting a clasp-knife with which he had been stripping the bark from a
                    black-thorn stake, “you came upon me so still and sudden, that I thought you was
                    an evil spirit. I've come across through the fields, and come in here at the
                    gate agen the moat, and I was taking a rest before I came up to the house to ask
                    if you was come back.”
                “I can see the well from my bedroom window, Luke,” Phœbe answered, pointing to an
                        open lattice in one of the gables. “I saw
                    you sitting here, and came down to have a chat; it's better talking out here
                    than in the house where there's always somebody listening.”
                The man was a big, broad-shouldered, stupid-looking clodhopper of about
                    twenty-three years of age. His dark-red hair grew low upon his forehead, and his
                    bushy brows met over a pair of greenish grey eyes; his nose was large and well
                    shaped, but the mouth was coarse in form and animal in expression. Rosy-cheeked,
                    red-haired, and bull-necked, he was not unlike one of the stout oxen grazing in
                    the meadows round about the Court.
                The girl seated herself lightly upon the wood-work at his side, and put one of
                    her hands, which had grown white in her new and easy service, about his thick
                    neck.
                “Are you glad to see me, Luke?” she asked.
                “Of course I'm glad, lass,” he answered, boorishly, opening his knife again, and
                    scraping away at the hedge-stake.
                They were first cousins, and had been play-
                    fellows in childhood, and sweethearts in early youth.
                “You don't seem much as if you were glad,” said the girl; “you might
                    look at me, Luke, and tell me if you think my journey has improved me.”
                “It ain't put any colour into your cheeks, my girl,” he said, glancing up at her
                    from under his lowering eyebrows; “you're every bit as white as you was when you
                    went away.”
                “But they say traveling makes people genteel, Luke. I've been on the Continent
                    with my lady, through all manner of curious places; and you know when I was a
                    child, Squire Horton's daughters taught me to speak a little French, and I found
                    it so nice to be able to talk to the people abroad.”
                “Genteel!” cried Luke Marks, with a hoarse laugh; “who wants you to be genteel, I
                    wonder? Not me for one; when you're my wife you won't have over-much time for
                    gentility, my girl. French, too! Dang me, Phœbe, I suppose when we've saved
                    money enough between us to buy a bit of a farm, you'll be
                        parlyvooing to the cows?”
                
                She bit her lip as her lover spoke, and looked away. He went on cutting and
                    chopping at a rude handle he was fashioning to the stake, whistling softly to
                    himself all the while, and not once looking at his cousin.
                For some time they were silent, but by-and-by she said, with her face still
                    turned away from her companion,—
                “What a fine thing it is for Miss Graham, that was, to travel with her maid and
                    her courier, and her chariot and four, and a husband that thinks there isn't one
                    spot upon all the earth that's good enough for her to set her foot upon!”
                “Ay, it is a fine thing, Phœbe, to have lots of money,” answered Luke, “and I
                    hope you'll be warned by that, my lass, to save up your wages agen we get
                    married.”
                “Why, what was she in Mr. Dawnson's house only three months ago?” continued the
                    girl, as if she had not heard her cousin's speech. “What was she but a servant
                    like me? Taking wages and working for them as hard, or harder than I did. You
                    should have seen her shabby clothes, Luke—worn
                    and patched, and darned, and turned and twisted, yet always looking nice upon
                    her, somehow. She gives me more as lady's-maid here than ever she got from Mr.
                    Dawson then. Why, I've seen her come out of the parlor with a few sovereigns and
                    a little silver in her hand, that master had just given her for her quarter's
                    salary; and now look at her!”
                “Never you mind her,” said Luke; “take care of yourself, Phœbe; that's all you've
                    got to do. What should you say to a public-house for you and me, by-and-by, my
                    girl? There's a deal of money to be made out of a public-house.”
                The girl still sat with her face averted from her lover, her hands hanging
                    listlessly in her lap, and her pale gray eyes fixed upon the last low streak of
                    crimson dying out behind the trunks of the trees.
                “You should see the inside of the house, Luke,” she said; “it's a tumble-down
                    looking place enough outside; but you should see my lady's rooms,—all pictures
                    and gilding, and great looking-glasses that stretch from the ceiling to the floor. Painted ceilings, too, that cost
                    hundreds of pounds, the housekeeper told me, and all done for her.”
                “She's a lucky one,” muttered Luke, with lazy indifference.
                “You should have seen her while we were abroad, with a crowd of gentlemen always
                    hanging about her; Sir Michael not jealous of them, only proud to see her so
                    much admired. You should have heard her laugh and talk with them; throwing all
                    their compliments and fine speeches back at them, as it were, as if they had
                    been pelting her with roses. She set every body mad about her wherever she went.
                    Her singing, her playing, her painting, her dancing, her beautiful smile, and
                    sunshiny ringlets! She was always the talk of a place, as long as we stayed in
                    it.”
                “Is she at home to-night?”
                “No, she has gone out with Sir Michael to a dinner party, at the Beeches. They've
                    seven or eight miles to drive, and they won't be back till after eleven.”
                “Then I'll tell you what, Phœbe, if the inside
                    of the house is so mighty fine, I should like to have a look at it.”
                “You shall, then. Mrs. Barton, the housekeeper, knows you by sight, and she can't
                    object to my showing you some of the best rooms.”
                It was almost dark when the cousins left the shrubbery and walked slowly to the
                    house. The door by which they entered led into the servants' hall, on one side
                    of which was the housekeeper's room. Phœbe Marks stopped for a moment to ask the
                    housekeeper if she might take her cousin through some of the rooms, and having
                    received permission to do so, lighted a candle at the lamp in the hall, and
                    beckoned to Luke to follow her into the other part of the house.
                The long, black oak corridors were dim in the ghostly twilight—the light carried
                    by Phœbe looking only a poor speck of flame in the broad passages through which
                    the girl led her cousin. Luke looked suspiciously over his shoulder now and
                    then, half frightened of the creaking of his own hob-nailed boots.
                “It's a mortal dull place, Phœbe,” he said, as
                    they emerged from a passage into the principal hall, which was not yet lighted;
                    “I've heard tell of a murder that was done here in old times.”
                “There are murders enough in these times, as to that, Luke,” answered the girl,
                    ascending the staircase, followed by the young man.
                She led the way through a great drawing-room, rich in satin and ormolu, buhl and
                    inlaid cabinets, bronzes, cameos, statuettes, and trinkets, that glistened in
                    the dusky light; then through a morning-room hung with proof engravings of
                    valuable pictures; through this into an ante-chamber,where she stopped, holding
                    the light above her head.
                The young man stared about him, open-mouthed and open-eyed.
                “It's a rare fine place,” he said, “and must have cost a power of money.”
                “Look at the pictures on the walls,” said Phœbe, glancing at the panels of the
                    octagonal chamber, which were hung with Claudes and Poussins, Wouvermans and
                    Cuyps, “I've heard that those alone are worth a
                    fortune. This is the entrance to my lady's apartments, Miss Graham that was.”
                    She lifted a heavy green cloth curtain which hung across a doorway, and led the
                    astonished countryman into a fairy-like boudoir, and thence to a dressing-room,
                    in which the open doors of a wardrobe and a heap of dresses flung about a sofa
                    showed that it still remained exactly as its occupant had left it.
                “I've all these things to put away before my lady comes home, Luke; you might sit
                    down here while I do it, I shan't be long.”
                Her cousin looked round in gawky embarrassment, bewildered by the splendor of the
                    room; and after some deliberation selected the most substantial of the chairs,
                    on the extreme edge of which he carefully seated himself.
                “I wish I could show you the jewels, Luke,” said the girl; “but I can't, for she
                    always keeps the keys herself; that's the case on the dressing-table there.”
                “What, that?” cried Luke, staring at the massive walnutwood and
                    brass inlaid casket. “Why, that's big enough to
                    hold every bit of clothes I've got!”
                “And it's as full as it can be of diamonds, rubies, pearls, and emeralds,”
                    answered Phœbe, busy as she spoke in folding the rustling silk dresses, and
                    laying them one by one upon the shelves of the wardrobe. As she was shaking out
                    the flounces of the last, a jingling sound caught her ear, and she put her hand
                    into the pocket.
                “I declare!” she exclaimed, “my lady has left her keys in her pocket for once in
                    a way. I can show you the jewelry if you like, Luke.”
                “Well, I may as well have a look at it, my girl,” he said, rising from his chair,
                    and holding the light while his cousin unlocked the casket. He uttered a cry of
                    wonder when he saw the ornaments glittering on white satin cushions. He wanted
                    to handle the delicate jewels; to pull them about, and find out their mercantile
                    value. Perhaps a pang of longing and envy shot through his heart as he thought
                    how he would have liked to have taken one of them.
                
                “Why, one of those diamond things would set us up in life, Phœbe,” he said,
                    turning a bracelet over and over in his big red hands.
                “Put it down, Luke! Put it down directly!” cried the girl, with a look of terror;
                    “how can you speak about such things?”
                He laid the bracelet in its place with a reluctant sigh, and then continued his
                    examination of the casket.
                “What's this?” he asked presently, pointing to a brass knob in the framework of
                    the box.
                He pushed it as he spoke, and a secret drawer, lined with purple velvet, flew out
                    of the casket.
                “Look ye, here!” cried Luke, pleased at his discovery.
                Phœbe Marks threw down the dress she had been folding, and went over to the
                    toilette table.
                “Why, I never saw this before,” she said, “I wonder what there is in it?”
                There was not much in it; neither gold nor gems; only a baby's little worsted
                    shoe rolled up in a piece of paper, and a tiny lock of pale and silky yellow hair, evidently taken from a baby's
                    head. Phœbe's grey eyes dilated as she examined the little packet.
                “So this is what my lady hides in the secret drawer,” she muttered.
                “It's queer rubbish to keep in such a place,” said Luke, carelessly.
                The girl's thin lips curved into a curious smile.
                “You will bear me witness where I found this,” she said, putting the little
                    parcel into her pocket.
                “Why, Phœbe, you're never going to be such a fool as to take that,” cried the
                    young man. 
                “I'd rather have this than the diamond bracelet you would have liked to take,”
                    she answered; “you shall have the public-house, Luke.” 
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                IN THE FIRST PAGE OF THE “TIMES.”
                ROBERT AUDLEY was supposed to be a barrister. As a barrister was his
                    name inscribed in the Law List; as a barrister, he had chambers in Fig-tree
                    Court, Temple; as a barrister he had eaten the allotted number of dinners, which
                    form the sublime ordeal through which the forensic aspirant wades on to fame and
                    fortune. If these things can make a man a barrister, Robert Audley decidedly was
                    one. But he had never either had a brief, or tried to get a brief, or even
                    wished to have a brief in all those five years, during which his name had been
                    painted upon one of the doors in Fig-tree Court. He was a handsome, lazy,
                    care-for-nothing fellow, of about seven-and-twenty; the only son of a younger
                    brother of Sir Michael Audley. His father had left him £400 a year, which his
                    friends had advised him to increase by being
                    called to the bar; and as he found it, after due consideration, more trouble to
                    oppose the wishes of these friends, than to eat so many dinners, and to take a
                    set of chambers in the Temple; he adopted the latter course, and unblushingly
                    called himself a barrister.
                Sometimes, when the weather was very hot, and he had exhausted himself with the
                    exertion of smoking his German pipe, and reading French novels, he would stroll
                    into the Temple Gardens, and lying in some shady spot, pale and cool, with his
                    shirt collar turned down and a blue silk handkerchief tied loosely about his
                    neck, would tell grave benchers that he had knocked himself up with over
                    work.
                The sly old benchers laughed at the pleasing fiction; but they all agreed that
                    Robert Audley was a good fellow; a generous-hearted fellow; rather a curious
                    fellow too, with a fund of sly wit and quiet humor, under his listless,
                    dawdling, indifferent, irresolute manner. A man who would never get on in the
                    world; but who would not hurt a worm. Indeed, his chambers were 
                        con-
                        converted
                     verted into a perfect dog-kennel, by
                    his habit of bringing home stray and benighted curs, who were attracted by his
                    looks in the street, and followed him with abject fondness.
                Robert always spent the hunting season at Audley Court; not that he was
                    distinguished as a Nimrod, for he would quietly trot to covert upon a
                    mild-tempered, stout-limbed, bay hack, and keep at a very respectful distance
                    from the hard riders; his horse knowing quite as well as he did, that nothing
                    was further from his thoughts than any desire to be in at the death.
                The young man was a great favourite with his uncle, and by no means despised by
                    his pretty, gipsy-faced, light-hearted, hoydenish cousin, Miss Alicia Audley. It
                    might have seemed to other men that the partiality of a young lady, who was sole
                    heiress to a very fine estate, was rather well worth cultivating, but it did not
                    so occur to Robert Audley. Alicia was a very nice girl, he said, a jolly girl,
                    with no nonsense about her—a girl of a thousand; but this was the highest point
                    to which enthusiasm could carry him. The idea of turning his cousin's girlish liking for him to some good
                    account never entered his idle brain. I doubt if he even had any correct notion
                    of the amount of his uncle's fortune, and I am certain that he never for one
                    moment calculated upon the chances of any part of that fortune ultimately coming
                    to himself. So that when one fine spring morning, about three months before the
                    time of which I am writing, the postman brought him the wedding cards of Sir
                    Michael and Lady Audley, together with a very indignant letter from his cousin,
                    setting forth how her father had just married a wax-dollish young person, no
                    older than Alicia herself, with flaxen ringlets and a perpetual giggle; for, I
                    am sorry to say, that Miss Audley's animus caused her so to describe that pretty
                    musical laugh which had been so much admired in the late Miss Lucy Graham—when,
                    I say, these documents reached Robert Audley—they elicited neither vexation nor
                    astonishment in the lymphatic nature of that gentleman. He read Alicia's angry
                    crossed and recrossed letter without so much as removing the amber mouthpiece of
                    his German pipe from his moustachioed lips.
                    When he had finished the perusal of the epistle, which he read with his dark
                    eyebrows elevated to the center of his forehead (his only manner of expressing
                    surprise, by the way), he deliberately threw that and the wedding cards into the
                    waste-paper basket, and putting down his pipe, prepared himself for the exertion
                    of thinking out the subject.
                “I always said the old buffer would marry,” he muttered, after about half an
                    hour's reverie. “Alicia and my lady, the stepmother, will go at it hammer and
                    tongs. I hope they won't quarrel in the hunting season, or say unpleasant things
                    to each other at the dinner-table: rows always upset a man's digestion.”
                At about twelve o'clock on the morning following that night upon which the events
                    recorded in my last chapter had taken place, the Baronet's nephew strolled out
                    of the Temple, Blackfriars-ward, on his way to the City. He had in an evil hour
                    obliged some necessitous friend by putting the ancient name of Audley across a
                    bill of accommodation, which bill not having been met by the drawer, Robert was called upon to pay. For this
                    purpose he sauntered up Ludgate Hill, with his blue necktie fluttering in the
                    hot August air, and thence to a refreshingly cool banking-house in a shady court
                    out of St. Paul's Churchyard, where he made arrangements for selling out a
                    couple of hundred pounds worth of consols.
                He had transacted this business, and was loitering at the corner of the court,
                    waiting for a chance Hansom, to convey him back to the Temple, when he was
                    almost knocked down by a man of about his own age, who dashed headlong into the
                    narrow opening.
                “Be so good as to look where you're going, my friend!” Robert remonstrated,
                    mildly, to the impetuous passenger; “you might give a man warning before you
                    throw him down and trample upon him.”
                The stranger stopped suddenly, looked very hard at the speaker, and then gasped
                    for breath.
                “Bob!” he cried, in a tone expressive of the most intense astonishment; “I only
                        touched British ground after dark last
                    night, and to think that I should meet you this morning!”
                “I've seen you somewhere before, my bearded friend,” said Mr. Audley, calmly
                    scrutinizing the animated face of the other, “but I'll be hanged if I can
                    remember when or where.”
                “What!” exclaimed the stranger, reproachfully, “you don't mean to say that you've
                    forgotten George Talboys?”
                “No, I have not!” said Robert, with an emphasis by no means usual to
                    him; and then hooking his arm into that of his friend, he led him into the shady
                    court, saying with his old indifference, “and now, George, tell us all about
                    it.”
                George Talboys did tell him all about it. He told that very story which he had
                    related ten days before to the pale governess on board the Argus; and then, hot
                    and breathless, he said that he had a bundle of Australian notes in his pocket,
                    and that he wanted to bank it at Messrs.—, who had been his bankers many years
                    before.
                “If you'll believe me, I've only just left their
                    counting-house,” said Robert. “I'll go back with you, and we'll settle that
                    matter in five minutes.”
                They did contrive to settle it in about a quarter of an hour; and then Robert
                    Audley was for starting off immediately for the Crown and Sceptre, or the
                    Castle, Richmond, where they could have a bit of dinner, and talk over those
                    good old times when they were together at Eton. But George told his friend that
                    before he went anywhere, before he shaved, or broke his fast, or in any way
                    refreshed himself after a night journey from Liverpool by express train, he must
                    call at a certain coffee-house in Bridge Street, Westminster, where he expected
                    to find a letter from his wife.
                “Then I'll go there with you,” said Robert. “The idea of your having a wife,
                    George; what a preposterous joke.”
                As they dashed through Ludgate Hill, Fleet Street and the Strand in a fast
                    Hansom, George Talboys poured into his friend's ear all those wild hopes and
                    dreams which had usurped such a dominion over his sanguine nature.
                
                “I shall take a villa on the banks of the Thames, Bob,” he said, “for the little
                    wife and myself; and we'll have a yacht, Bob, old boy, and you shall lie on the
                    deck and smoke while my pretty one plays her guitar and sings songs to us. She's
                    for all the world like one of those what's-its-names, who got poor old Ulysses
                    into trouble,” added the young man, whose classic lore was not very great.
                The waiters at the Westminster coffee-house stared at the hollow-eyed, unshaven
                    stranger, with his clothes of colonial cut, and his boisterous, excited manner;
                    but he had been an old frequenter of the place in his military days, and when
                    they heard who he was they flew to do his bidding.
                He did not want much—only a bottle of soda water, and to know if there was a
                    letter at the bar directed to George Talboys.
                The waiter brought the soda water before the young men had seated themselves in a
                    shady box near the disused fireplace. No; there was no letter for that name.
                
                The waiter said it with consummate indifference, while he mechanically dusted the
                    little mahogany table.
                George's face blanched to a deadly whiteness.
                “Talboys,” he said; “perhaps you didn't hear the name distinctly—T, A, L, B, 0,
                    Y, S. Go and look again, there must be a letter.”
                The waiter shrugged his shoulders as he left the room, and returned in three
                    minutes to say that there was no name at all resembling Talboys in the letter
                    rack. There was Brown, and Saunderson, and Pinchbeck; only three letters
                    altogether.
                The young man drank his soda water in silence, and then leaning his elbows upon
                    the table, covered his face with his hands. There was something in his manner
                    which told Robert Audley that his disappointment, trifling as it might appear,
                    was in reality a very bitter one. He seated himself opposite to his friend, but
                    did not attempt to address him.
                By-and-by George looked up, and mechanically taking a greasy Times
                    newspaper of the day before from a heap of
                    journals on the table, stared vacantly at the first page.
                I cannot tell how long he sat blankly staring at one paragraph among the list of
                    deaths, before his dazed brain took in its full meaning; but after a
                    considerable pause he pushed the newspaper over to Robert Audley, and with a
                    face that had changed from its dark bronze to a sickly, chalky, greyish white,
                    and with an awful calmness in his manner, he pointed with his finger to a line
                    which ran thus:—
                “On the 24th inst., at Ventnor, Isle of Wight, Helen Talboys, aged
                    twenty-two.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                THE HEADSTONE AT VENTNOR.
                YES: there it was, in black and white—“Helen Talboys, aged 22.”
                When George told the governess on board the Argus that if he heard any evil
                    tidings of his wife he should drop down dead, he spoke in perfect good faith;
                    and yet here were the worst tidings that could come to him, and he sat rigid,
                    white, and helpless, staring stupidly at the shocked face of his friend.
                The suddenness of the blow had stunned him. In this strange and bewildered state
                    of mind he began to wonder what had happened, and why it was that one line in
                    the Times newspaper could have so horrible an effect upon him.
                Then by degrees even this vague consciousness of his misfortune faded slowly out
                    of his mind, succeeded by a painful
                    consciousness of external things.
                The hot August sunshine; the dusty window panes and shabby painted blinds; a file
                    of fly-blown play-bills fastened to the wall; the black and empty fire-place; a
                    bald-headed old man nodding over the Morning Advertiser; the
                    slip-shod waiter folding a tumbled table-cloth, and Robert Audley's handsome
                    face looking at him full of compassionate alarm. He knew that all these things
                    took gigantic proportions, and then, one by one, melted into dark blots that
                    swam before his eyes. He knew that there was a great noise as of half-a-dozen
                    furious steam-engines tearing and grinding in his ears, and he knew nothing
                    more, except that somebody or something fell heavily to the ground.
                He opened his eyes upon the dusky evening in a cool and shaded room, the silence
                    only broken by the rumbling of wheels at a distance.
                He looked about him wonderingly, but half indifferently. His old friend, Robert
                    Audley, was seated by his side smoking. George was lying on a low iron bedstead opposite to an open window, in
                    which there was a stand of flowers and two or three birds in cages.
                “You don't mind the pipe, do you, George?” his friend asked quietly.
                “No.”
                He lay for some time looking at the flowers and the birds: one canary was singing
                    a shrill hymn to the setting sun.
                “Do the birds annoy you, George? Shall I take them out of the room?”
                “No: I like to hear them sing.”
                Robert Audley knocked the ashes out of his pipe, laid the precious meerschaum
                    tenderly upon the mantel-piece, and going into the next room, returned presently
                    with a cup of strong tea.
                “Take this, George,” he said, as he placed the cup on a little table close to
                    George's pillow; “it will do your head good.”
                The young man did not answer, but looked slowly round the room, and then at his
                    friend's grave face.
                “Bob,” he said, “where are we?”
                
                “In my chambers, my dear boy, in the Temple. You have no lodgings of your own, so
                    you may as well stay with me while you're in town.”
                George passed his hand once or twice across his forehead, and then, in a
                    hesitating manner, said quietly—
                “That newspaper this morning, Bob; what was it?”
                “Never mind just now, old boy; drink some tea.”
                “Yes, yes,” cried George, impatiently, raising himself upon the bed, and staring
                    about him with hollow eyes, “I remember all about it. Helen, my Helen! my wife,
                    my darling, my only love! Dead! dead!”
                “George,” said Robert Audley, laying his hand gently upon the young man's arm,
                    “you must remember that the person whose name you saw in the paper may not be
                    your wife. There may have been some other Helen Talboys.”
                “No, no,” he cried, “the age corresponds with hers, and Talboys is such an
                    uncommon name.”
                
                “It may be a misprint for Talbot.”
                “No, no, no; my wife is dead!”
                He shook off Robert's restraining hand, and rising from the bed, walked straight
                    to the door.
                “Where are you going?” exclaimed his friend.
                “To Ventnor, to see her grave.”
                “Not to-night, George, not to-night. I will go with you myself by the first train
                    to-morrow.”
                Robert led him back to the bed, and gently forced him to lie down again. He then
                    gave him an opiate which had been left for him by the medical man whom they had
                    called in at the coffee-house in Bridge Street, when George fainted.
                So George Talboys fell into a heavy slumber, and dreamed that he went to Ventnor,
                    to find his wife alive and happy, but wrinkled, old, and gray, and to find his
                    son grown into a young man.
                Early the next morning he was seated opposite to Robert Audley in the first-class
                    carriage of an express, whirling through the pretty open country towards
                    Portsmouth.
                
                They rode from Ryde to Ventnor under the burning heat of the mid-day sun. As the
                    two young men alighted from the coach, the people standing about stared at
                    George's white face and untrimmed beard.
                “What are we to do, George?” Robert Audley asked. “We have no clue to finding the
                    people you want to see.”
                The young man looked at him with a pitiful, bewildered expression. The big
                    dragoon was as helpless as a baby; and Robert Audley, the most vacillating and
                    unenergetic of men, found himself called upon to act for another. He rose
                    superior to himself and equal to the occasion.
                “Had we better ask at one of the hotels about a Mrs. Talboys, George?” he
                    said.
                “Her father's name was Maldon,” George muttered; “he could never have sent her
                    here to die alone.”
                They said nothing more, but Robert walked straight to an hotel, where he inquired
                    for a Mr. Maldon.
                
                “Yes,” they told him, “there was a gentleman of that name stoping at Ventnor, a
                    Captain Maldon; his daughter was lately dead. The waiter would go and inquire
                    for the address.”
                The hotel was a busy place at this season; people hurrying in and out, and a
                    great bustle of grooms and waiters about the hall.
                George Talboys leaned against the door-post with much the same look in his face
                    as that which had frightened his friend in the Westminister coffee-house.
                The worst was confirmed now. His wife, Captain Maldon's daughter,
                    was dead.
                The waiter returned in about five minutes to say that Captain Maldon was lodging
                    at Lansdowne Cottages, No. 4.
                They easily found the house, a shabby bow-windowed cottage, looking towards the
                    water.
                Was Captain Maldon at home? No, the landlady said; he had gone out on the beach
                    with his little grandson. Would the gentleman walk in and sit down a bit?
                George mechanically followed his friend into the
                    little front parlour—dusty, shabbily furnished, and disorderly, with a child's
                    broken toys scattered on the floor, and the scent of stale tobacco hanging about
                    the muslin window curtains.
                “Look!” said George, pointing to a picture over the mantel-piece.
                It was his own portrait, painted in the old dragooning days. A pretty good
                    likeness, representing him in uniform, with his charger in the background.
                Perhaps the most animated of men would have been scarcely so wise a comforter as
                    Robert Audley. He did not utter a word to the stricken widower, but quietly
                    seated himself with his back to George, looking out of the open window.
                For some time the young man wandered restlessly about the room, looking at and
                    sometimes touching the knicknacks lying here and there.
                Her work-box, with an unfinished piece of work; her album, full of extracts from
                    Byron and Moore, written in his own scrawling hand; some books which he had
                    given her, and a bunch of withered flowers in a
                    vase they had bought in Italy.
                “Her portrait used to hang by the side of mine,” he muttered; “I wonder what they
                    have done with it?”
                By-and-by he said, after about half-an-hour's silence—
                “I should like to see the woman of the house; I should like to ask her
                    about—”
                He broke down, and buried his face in his hands.
                Robert summoned the landlady. She was a goodnatured, garrulous creature, used to
                    sickness and death, for many of her lodgers came to her to die. She told all the
                    particulars of Mrs. Talboys' last hours; how she had come to Ventnor only a week
                    before her death in the last stage of decline; and how day by day she had
                    gradually but surely sunk under the fatal malady. “Was the gentleman any
                    relative?” she asked of Robert Audley, as George sobbed aloud.
                “Yes, he is the lady's husband.”
                “What!” the woman cried; “him as deserted her so
                    cruel, and left her with her pretty boy upon her poor old father's hands, which
                    Captain Maldon has told me often, with the tears in his poor eyes?”
                “I did not desert her,” George cried out; and then he told the history of his
                    three years' struggle.
                “Did she speak of me?” he asked; “did she speak of me at—at—the last?”
                “No, she went off as quiet as a lamb. She said very little from the first; but
                    the last day she knew nobody, not even her little boy nor her poor old father,
                    who took on awful. Once she went off wild like, talking about her mother, and
                    about the cruel shame it was to have to die in a strange place, till it was
                    quite pitiful to hear her.”
                “Her mother died when she was quite a child,” said George. “To think that she
                    should remember her and speak of her, but never once of me.”
                The woman took him into the little bed-room in which his wife had died. He knelt
                    down by the bed and kissed the pillow tenderly,
                    the landlady crying as he did so.
                While he was kneeling, praying perhaps, with his face buried in this humble
                    snow-white pillow, the woman took something from a drawer. She gave it to him
                    when he rose from his knees; it was a long tress of hair wrapped in silver
                    paper.
                “I cut this off when she lay in her coffin,” she said, “poor dear!”
                He pressed the soft lock to his lips. “Yes,” he murmured; “this is the dear hair
                    that I have kissed so often when her head lay upon my shoulder. But it always
                    had a rippling wave in it then, and now it seems smooth and straight.”
                “It changes in illness,” said the landlady. “If you'd like to see where they have
                    laid her, Mr. Talboys, my little boy shall show you the way to the
                    churchyard.”
                So George Talboys and his faithful friend walked to the quiet spot, where beneath
                    a mound of earth, to which the patches of fresh turf hardly adhered, lay that
                    wife of whose welcoming smile George had dreamed so often in the far
                    antipodes.
                
                Robert left the young man by the side of this new-made grave, and returning in
                    about a quarter of an hour, found that he had not once stirred.
                He looked up presently, and said that if there was a stonemason's anywhere near
                    he should like to give an order.
                They very easily found the stonemason, and sitting down amidst the fragmentary
                    litter of the man's yard, George Talboys wrote in pencil this brief inscription
                    for the headstone of his dead wife's grave:— 
                        Sacred to the Memory of HELEN, THE BELOVED WIFE OF GEORGE
                            TALBOYS, Who departed this life August 24th, 1857, aged 22,
                            Deeply regretted by her sorrowing Husband.
                    
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                ANYWHERE, ANYWHERE OUT OF THE WORLD.
                WHEN they returned to Lansdowne Cottage they found the old man had not
                    yet come in, so they walked down to the beach to look for him. After a brief
                    search they found him, sitting upon a heap of pebbles, reading a newspaper and
                    eating filberts. The little boy was at some distance from his grandfather,
                    digging in the sand with a wooden spade. The crape round the old man's shabby
                    hat, and the child's poor little black frock, went to George's heart. Go where
                    he would he met confirmation of this great grief of his life. His wife was
                    dead.
                “Mr. Maldon,” he said, as he approached his father-in-law.
                The old man looked up, and, dropping his newspaper, rose from the pebbles with a
                    ceremonious bow. His faded, light hair was tinged with grey; he had a pinched hook nose; watery blue eyes, and an
                    irresolute-looking mouth; he wore his shabby dress with an affectation of
                    foppish gentility; an eye-glass dangled over his closely buttoned-up waistcoat,
                    and he carried a cane in his ungloved hand.
                “Good heavens!” cried George, “don't you know me?”
                Mr. Maldon started and coloured violently, with something of a frightened look,
                    as he recognised his son-in-law.
                “My dear boy,” he said, “I did not; for the first moment I did not; that beard
                    makes such a difference. You find the beard makes a great difference, do you
                    not, sir?” he said, appealing to Robert.
                “Great heaven!” exclaimed George Talboys, “is this the way you welcome me? I come
                    to England to find my wife dead within a week of my touching land, and you begin
                    to chatter to me about my beard,—you, her father!”
                “True! true!” muttered the old man, wiping his blood-shot eyes; “a sad shock, a
                    sad shock, my dear George. If you'd only been
                    here a week earlier?”
                “If I had,” cried George, in an outburst of grief and passion, “I scarcely think
                    that I would have let her die. I would have disputed for her with
                    death. I would! I would! Oh God! why did not the Argus go down with every soul
                    on board her before I came to see this day?”
                He began to walk up and down the beach, his father-in-law looking helplessly at
                    him, rubbing his feeble eyes with a handkerchief.
                “I've a strong notion that that old man didn't treat his daughter too well,”
                    thought Robert, as he watched the half-pay lieutenant. “He seems, for some
                    reason or other, to be half afraid of George.”
                While the agitated young man walked up and down in a fever of regret and despair,
                    the child ran to his grandfather and clung about the tails of his coat.
                “Come home, grandpa', come home,” he said. “I'm tired.”
                George Talboys turned at the sound of the
                    babyish voice, and long and earnestly looked at the boy.
                He had his father's brown eyes and dark hair.
                “My darling! my darling!” said George, taking the child in his arms, “I am your
                    father, come across the sea to find you. Will you love me?”
                The little fellow pushed him away. “I don't know you,” he said. “I love grandpa'
                    and Mrs. Monks, at Southampton.”
                “Georgey has a temper of his own, sir,” said the old man. “He has been
                    spoiled.”
                They walked slowly back to the cottage, and once more George Talboys told the
                    history of that desertion which had seemed so cruel. He told, too, of the twenty
                    thousand pounds banked by him the day before. He had not the heart to ask any
                    questions about the past, and his father-in-law only told him that a few months
                    after his departure they had gone from the place where George left them to live
                    at Southampton, where Helen got a few pupils for the piano, and where they
                    managed pretty well till her health failed, and
                    she fell into the decline of which she died. Like most sad stories, it was a
                    very brief one.
                “The boy seems fond of you, Mr. Maldon,” said George, after a pause.
                “Yes, yes,” answered the old man, smoothing the child's curling hair, “yes,
                    Georgey is very fond of his grandfather.”
                “Then he had better stop with you. The interest of my money will be about six
                    hundred a year. You can draw a hundred of that for Georgey's education, leaving
                    the rest to accumulate till he is of age. My friend here will be trustee, and if
                    he will undertake the charge, I will appoint him guardian to the boy, allowing
                    him for the present to remain under your care.”
                “But why not take care of him yourself, George?” asked Robert Audley.
                “Because I shall sail in the very next vessel that leaves Liverpool for
                    Australia. I shall be better in the diggings or the backwoods than ever I could
                    be here. I'm broken for a civilized life from this hour, Bob.”
                
                The old man's weak eyes sparkled as George declared this determination.
                “My poor boy, I think you're right,” he said, “I really think you're right. The
                    change, the wild life, the—the—” He hesitated and broke down, as Robert looked
                    earnestly at him.
                “You're in a great hurry to get rid of your son-in-law, I think, Mr. Maldon,” he
                    said gravely.
                “Get rid of him, dear boy! Oh, no, no! But for his own sake, my dear sir, for his
                    own sake, you know.”
                “I think for his own sake he'd much better stay in England and look after his
                    son,” said Robert.
                “But I tell you I can't,” cried George; “every inch of this accursed ground is
                    hateful to me—I want to run out of it as I would out of a graveyard. I'll go
                    back to town to-night, get that business about the money settled early to-morrow
                    morning, and start for Liverpool without a moment's delay. I shall be better
                    when I've put half the world between me and her grave.”
                Before he left the house he stole out to the
                    landlady, and asked some more questions about his dead wife.
                “Were they poor?” he asked; “were they pinched for money while she was ill?”
                “Oh, no!” the woman answered; “though the captain dresses shabby, he has always
                    plenty of sovereigns in his purse. The poor lady wanted for nothing.”
                George was relieved at this, though it puzzled him to know where the drunken
                    half-pay lieutenant could have contrived to find money for all the expenses of
                    his daughter's illness.
                But he was too thoroughly broken down by the calamity which had befallen him to
                    be able to think much of anything, so he asked no further questions, but walked
                    with his father-in-law and Robert Audley down to the boat by which they were to
                    cross to Portsmouth.
                The old man bade Robert a very ceremonious adieu.
                “You did not introduce me to your friend, by-the-bye, my dear boy,” he said.
                    George stared at him, muttered something indistinct, and ran down the ladder to the boat before Mr. Maldon
                    could repeat his request. The steamer sped away through the sunset, and the
                    outlines of the island melted in the horizon as they neared the opposite
                    shore.
                “To think,” said George, “that two nights ago at this time I was steaming into
                    Liverpool, full of the hope of clasping her to my heart, and to-night I am going
                    away from her grave!”
                The document which appointed Robert Audley as guardian to little George Talboys
                    was drawn up in a solicitor's office the next morning.
                “It's a great responsibility,” exclaimed Robert; “I, guardian to anybody or
                    anything! I, who never in my life could take care of myself!”
                “I trust in your noble heart, Bob,” said George, “I know you will take care of my
                    poor orphan boy, and see that he is well used by his grandfather. I shall only
                    draw enough from George's fortune to take me back to Sydney, and then begin my
                    old work again.”
                But it seemed as if George was destined to be himself the guardian of his son;
                    for when he reached Liverpool, he found that a
                    vessel had just sailed, and that there would not be another for a month; so he
                    returned to London, and once more threw himself upon Robert Audley's
                    hospitality.
                The barrister received him with open arms; he gave him the room with the birds
                    and flowers, and had a bed put up in his dressing-room for himself. Grief is so
                    selfish that George did not know the sacrifices his friend made for his comfort.
                    He only knew that for him the sun was darkened, and the business of life done.
                    He sat all day long smoking cigars, and staring at the flowers and canaries,
                    chafing for the time to pass that he might be far out at sea.
                But, just as the hour was drawing near for the sailing of the vessel, Robert
                    Audley came in one day full of a great scheme. A friend of his, another of those
                    barristers whose last thought is of a brief, was going to St. Petersburg to
                    spend the winter, and wanted Robert to accompany him. Robert would only go on
                    condition that George went too.
                
                For a long time the young man resisted, but when he found that Robert was, in a
                    quiet way, thoroughly determined upon not going without him, he gave in, and
                    consented to join the party. “What did it matter?” he said. “One place was the
                    same to him as another, anywhere out of England, what did he care where?”
                This was not a very cheerful way of looking at things, but Robert Audley was
                    quite satisfied with having won his consent.
                The three young men started under very favourable circumstances, carrying letters
                    of introduction to the most influential inhabitants of the Russian capital.
                Before leaving England Robert wrote to his cousin Alicia, telling her of his
                    intended departure with his old friend George Talboys, whom he had lately met
                    for the first time after a lapse of years, and who had just lost his wife.
                Alicia's reply came by return of post, and ran thus:—
                “MY DEAR ROBERT,—How cruel of you to run away to
                    that horrid St. Petersburg before the hunting season! I have heard that people
                    lose their noses in that disagreeable climate, and as yours is rather a long
                    one, I should advise you to return before the very severe weather sets in. What
                    sort of person is this young Mr. Talboys? If he is very agreeable you may bring
                    him to the Court as soon as you return from your travel. Lady Audley tells me to
                    request you to secure her a set of sables. You are not to consider the price,
                    but to be sure that they are the handsomest that can be obtained. Papa is
                    perfectly absurd about his new wife, and she and I cannot get on together at
                    all; not that she is disagreeable to me, for, as far as that goes, she makes
                    herself agreeable to every one; but she is so irretrievably childish and
                    silly.
                “Believe me to be, my dear Robert,
                “Your affectionate Cousin,
                “ALICIA AUDLEY.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                AFTER A YEAR.
                THE first year of George Talboys' widowhood passed away; the deep band
                    of crape about his hat grew brown and rusty, and as the last burning day of
                    another August faded out, he sat smoking cigars in the quiet chambers in Fig
                    Tree Court, much as he had done the year before, when the horror of his grief
                    was new to him, and every object in life, however trifling or however important,
                    seemed saturated with his one great sorrow.
                But the big ex-dragoon had survived his affliction by a twelvemonth, and hard as
                    it may be to have to tell it, he did not look much the worse for it. Heaven
                    knows what inner change may have been worked by that bitter disappointment!
                    Heaven knows what wasted agonies of remorse and self-reproach may not have
                        racked George's honest heart as he lay
                    awake at nights thinking of the wife he had abandoned in the pursuit of a
                    fortune which she never lived to share.
                Once, while they were abroad, Robert Audley ventured to congratulate him upon his
                    recovered spirits. He burst into a bitter laugh.
                “Do you know, Bob,” he said, “that when some of our fellows were wounded in
                    India, they came home bringing bullets inside them. They did not talk of them,
                    and they were stout and hearty, and looked as well, perhaps, as you or I; but
                    every change in the weather, however slight, every variation of the atmosphere,
                    however trifling, brought back the old agony of their wounds as sharp as ever
                    they had felt it on the battle-field. I've had my wound, Bob; I carry the bullet
                    still, and I shall carry it into my coffin.”
                The travellers returned from St. Petersburg in the spring, and George again took
                    up his quarters in his old friend's chambers, only leaving them now and then to
                    run down to 
                        South-
                        Southampton
                     ampton and take a look at his little
                    boy. He always went loaded with toys and sweetmeats to give to the child; but,
                    for all this, Georgey would not become very familiar with his papa, and the
                    young man's heart sickened as he began to fancy that even his child was lost to
                    him.
                “What can I do?” he thought. “If I take him away from his grandfather I shall
                    break his heart; if I let him remain he will grow up a stranger to me, and care
                    more for that drunken old hypocrite than for his own father. But then what could
                    an ignorant heavy dragoon like me do with such a child? What could I teach him
                    except to smoke cigars, and idle about all day with his hands in his
                    pockets?”
                So the anniversary of that 30th of August, upon which George had seen the
                    advertisement of his wife's death in the Times newspaper, came
                    round for the first time, and the young man put off his black clothes and the
                    shabby crape from his hat, and laid his mourning garments in a trunk in which he
                    kept a packet of his wife's letters, and that lock of hair which had been cut from her head after death. Robert Audley had
                    never seen either the letters or the long tress of silky hair; nor, indeed, had
                    George ever mentioned the name of his dead wife after that one day at Ventnor on
                    which he learned the full particulars of her decease.
                “I shall write to my cousin Alicia to-day, George,” the young barrister said,
                    upon this very 30th of August. “Do you know that the day after to-morrow is the
                    1st of September? I shall write and tell her that we will both run down to the
                    Court for a week's shooting.”
                “No, no, Bob: go by yourself; they don't want me, and I'd rather—”
                “Bury yourself in Fig Tree Court, with no company but my dogs and canaries! No,
                    George, you shall do nothing of the kind.”
                “But I don't care for shooting.”
                “And do you suppose I care for it?” cried Robert, with charming naïveté. “Why, man, I don't know a partridge from a
                    pigeon, and it might be the 1st of April instead of the 1st of September for
                    aught I care. I never hit a bird in my life,
                    but I have hurt my own shoulder with the weight of my gun. I only go down to
                    Essex for the change of air, the good dinners, and the sight of my uncle's
                    honest, handsome face. Besides, this time I've another inducement, as I want to
                    see this fair-haired paragon, my new aunt. You'll go with me, George?”
                “Yes, if you really wish it.”
                The quiet form which his grief had taken after its first brief violence left him
                    as submissive as a child to the will of his friend; ready to go anywhere or do
                    anything; never enjoying himself, or originating any enjoyment, but joining in
                    the pleasures of others with a hopeless, quiet, uncomplaining, unobtrusive
                    resignation peculiar to his simple nature. But the return of post brought a
                    letter from Alicia Audley, to say that the two young men could not be received
                    at the Court.
                “There are seventeen spare bed-rooms,” wrote the young lady, in an indignant
                    running hand, “but for all that, my dear Robert, you can't come; for my lady has
                    taken it into her silly head that she is too
                    ill to entertain visitors (there is no more the matter with her than there is
                    with me), and she cannot have gentlemen (great rough men, she says) in the
                    house. Please apologise to your friend Mr. Talboys, and tell him that papa hopes
                    to see you both in the hunting season.”
                “My lady's airs and graces shan't keep us out of Essex for all that,” said
                    Robert, as he twisted the letter into a pipe-light for his big meerschaum. “I'll
                    tell you what we'll do, George; there's a glorious inn at Audley, and plenty of
                    fishing in the neighbourhood: we'll go there and have a week's sport. Fishing is
                    much better than shooting; you've only to lie on a bank and stare at your line;
                    I don't find that you often catch anything, but it's very pleasant.”
                He held the twisted letter to the feeble spark of fire glimmering in the grate as
                    he spoke, and then changing his mind, deliberately unfolded it and smoothed the
                    crumpled paper with his hand.
                “Poor little Alicia!” he said thoughtfully; “it's rather hard to treat her
                    letters so cavalierly—I'll keep it;” upon which Mr. Robert Audley put the note back into its envelope, and afterwards
                    thrust it into a pigeon-hole in his office desk marked important.
                    Heaven knows what wonderful documents there were in this particular pigeon-hole,
                    but I do not think it likely to have contained anything of great judicial value.
                    If any one could at that moment have told the young barrister that so simple a
                    thing as his cousin's brief letter would one day come to be a link in that
                    terrible chain of evidence afterwards to be slowly forged in the one only
                    criminal case in which he was ever to be concerned, perhaps Mr. Robert Audley
                    would have lifted his eyebrows a little higher than usual.
                So the two young men left London the next day with one portmanteau and a rod and
                    tackle between them, and reached the straggling, old-fashioned, fast-decaying
                    village of Audley in time to order a good dinner at the Sun Inn.
                Audley Court was about three-quarters of a mile from the village, lying, as I
                    have said, deep down in a hollow, shut in by luxuriant timber. You could only
                    reach it by a cross-road, 
                        bor-
                        bordered
                     dered by trees, and as trimly kept
                    as the avenues in a gentleman's park. It was a dreary place enough, even in all
                    its rustic beauty, for so bright a creature as the late Miss Lucy Graham, but
                    the generous baronet had transformed the interior of the gray old mansion into a
                    little palace for his young wife, and Lady Audley seemed as happy as a child
                    surrounded by new and costly toys.
                In her better fortunes, as in her old days of dependence, wherever she went she
                    seemed to take sunshine and gladness with her. In spite of Miss Alicia's
                    undisguised contempt for her step-mother's childishness and frivolity, Lucy was
                    better loved and more admired than the baronet's daughter. That very
                    childishness had a charm which few could resist. The innocence and candor of an
                    infant beamed in Lady Audley's fair face, and shone out of her large and liquid
                    blue eyes. The rosy lips, the delicate nose, the profusion of fair ringlets, all
                    contributed to preserve to her beauty the character of extreme youth and
                    freshness. She owned to twenty years of age, but it was hard to believe her more
                    than 
                        seven-
                        seventeen
                     teen. Her fragile figure, which she
                    loved to dress in heavy velvets and stiff rustling silks, till she looked like a
                    child tricked out for a masquerade, was as girlish as if she had but just left
                    the nursery. All her amusements were childish. She hated reading, or study of
                    any kind, and loved society; rather than be alone she would admit Phœbe Marks
                    into her confidence, and loll on one of the sofas in her luxurious
                    dressing-room, discussing a new costume for some coming dinner party, or sit
                    chattering to the girl, with her jewel box beside her, upon the satin cushions,
                    and Sir Michael's presents spread out in her lap, while she counted and admired
                    her treasures.
                She had appeared at several public balls at Chelmsford and Colchester, and was
                    immediately established as the belle of the county. Pleased with her high
                    position and her handsome house; with every caprice gratified, every whim
                    indulged; admired and caressed wherever she went; fond of her generous husband;
                    rich in a noble allowance of pin-money; with no poor relations to worry her with
                    claims upon her purse or patronage; it would
                    have been hard to find in the County of Essex a more fortunate creature than
                    Lucy, Lady Audley.
                The two young men loitered over the dinner-table in the private sitting-room at
                    the Sun Inn. The windows were thrown wide open, and the fresh country air blew
                    in upon them as they dined. The weather was lovely; the foliage of the woods
                    touched here and there with faint gleams of the earliest tints of autumn; the
                    yellow corn still standing in some of the fields, in others just falling under
                    the shining sickle; while in the narrow lanes you met great waggons drawn by
                    broad-chested cart-horses, carrying home the rich golden store. To any one who
                    has been, during the hot summer months, pent up in London, there is in the first
                    taste of rustic life a kind of sensuous rapture scarcely to be described. George
                    Talboys felt this, and in this he experienced the nearest approach to enjoyment
                    that he had ever known since his wife's death.
                The clock struck five as they finished dinner.
                “Put on your hat, George,” said Robert Audley;
                    “they don't dine at the Court till seven; we shall have time to stroll down and
                    see the old place and its inhabitants.”
                The landlord, who had come into the room with a bottle of wine, looked up as the
                    young man spoke.
                “I beg your pardon, Mr. Audley,” he said, “but if you want to see your uncle,
                    you'll lose your time by going to the Court just now. Sir Michael and my lady
                    and Miss Alicia have all gone to the races up at Chorley, and they won't be back
                    till nigh upon eight o'clock most likely. They must pass by here to go
                    home.”
                Under these circumstances of course it was no use going to the Court, so the two
                    young men strolled through the village and looked at the old church, and then
                    went and reconnoitered the streams in which they were to fish the next day, and
                    by such means beguiled the time till after seven o'clock. At about a quarter
                    past that hour they returned to the inn, and seating themselves in the open
                    window, lit their cigars and looked out at the peaceful prospect.
                
                We hear every day of murders committed in the country. Brutal and treacherous
                    murders; slow, protracted agonies from poisons administered by some kindred
                    hand; sudden and violent deaths by cruel blows, inflicted with a stake cut from
                    some spreading oak, whose every shadow promised—peace. In the county of which I
                    write, I have been shown a meadow in which, on a quiet summer Sunday evening, a
                    young farmer murdered the girl who had loved and trusted him; and yet even now,
                    with the stain of that foul deed upon it, the aspect of the spot is—peace. No
                    crime has ever been committed in the worst rookeries about Seven Dials that has
                    not been also done in the face of that sweet rustic calm which still, in spite
                    of all, we look on with a tender, half-mournful yearning, and associate
                    with—peace.
                It was dusk when gigs and chaises, dogcarts and clumsy farmers' phaetons, began
                    to rattle through the village street, and under the windows of the Sun Inn;
                    deeper dusk still when an open carriage and four drew suddenly up beneath the
                    rocking sign-post.
                
                It was Sir Michael Audley's barouche which came to so sudden a stop before the
                    little inn. The harness of one of the leaders had become out of order, and the
                    foremost postilion dismounted to set it right.
                “Why, it's my uncle,” cried Robert Audley, as the carriage stopped. “I'll run
                    down and speak to him.”
                George lit another cigar, and, sheltered by the window curtains, looked out at
                    the little party. Alicia sat with her back to the horses, and he could perceive,
                    even in the dusk, that she was a handsome brunette; but Lady Audley was seated
                    on the side of the carriage furthest from the inn, and he could see nothing of
                    the fair-haired paragon of whom he had heard so much.
                “Why, Robert,” exclaimed Sir Michael, as his nephew emerged from the inn, “this
                    is a surprise!”
                “I have not come to intrude upon you at the Court, my dear uncle,” said the young
                    man, as the baronet shook him by the hand in his own hearty fashion. “Essex is
                    my native county, you know, and about this
                    time of year I generally have a touch of home sickness; so George and I have
                    come down to the inn for two or three days' fishing.”
                “George—George who?”
                “George Talboys.”
                “What, has he come?” cried Alicia. “I'm so glad; for I'm dying to see this
                    handsome young widower.”
                “Are you, Alicia?” said her cousin. “Then, egad, I'll run and fetch him, and
                    introduce you to him at once.”
                Now, so complete was the dominion which Lady Audley had, in her own childish,
                    unthinking way, obtained over her devoted husband, that it was very rarely that
                    the baronet's eyes were long removed from his wife's pretty face. When Robert,
                    therefore, was about to re-enter the inn, it needed but the faintest elevation
                    of Lucy's eyebrows, with a charming expression of weariness and terror, to make
                    her husband aware that she did not want to be bored by an introduction to Mr.
                    George Talboys.
                
                “Never mind to-night, Bob,” he said. “My wife is a little tired after our long
                    day's pleasure. Bring your friend to dinner to-morrow, and then he and Alicia
                    can make each other's acquaintance. Come round and speak to Lady Audley, and
                    then we'll drive home.”
                My lady was so terribly fatigued that she could only smile sweetly, and hold out
                    a tiny gloved hand to her nephew by marriage.
                “You will come and dine with us to-morrow, and bring your interesting friend?”
                    she said, in a low and tired voice. She had been the chief attraction of the
                    race-course, and was wearied out by the exertion of fascinating half the
                    county.
                “It's a wonder she didn't treat you to her never-ending laugh,” whispered Alicia,
                    as she leant over the carriage-door to bid Robert good night; “but I dare say
                    she reserves that for your delectation to-morrow. I suppose you are
                    fascinated as well as everybody else?” added the young lady, rather
                    snappishly.
                “She is a lovely creature, certainly,” murmured Robert, with placid
                    admiration.
                
                “Oh, of course! Now, she is the first woman of whom I ever heard you say a civil
                    word, Robert Audley. I'm sorry to find you can only admire wax dolls.”
                Poor Alicia had had many skirmishes with her cousin upon that particular
                    temperament of his, which, while it enabled him to go through life with perfect
                    content and tacit enjoyment, entirely precluded his feeling one spark of
                    enthusiasm upon any subject whatever.
                “As to his ever falling in love,” thought the young lady sometimes, “the idea is
                    too preposterous. If all the divinities upon earth were ranged before him,
                    waiting for his sultanship to throw the handkerchief, he would only lift his
                    eyebrows to the middle of his forehead, and tell them to scramble for it.”
                But, for once in his life, Robert was almost enthusiastic.
                “She's the prettiest little creature you ever saw in your life, George,” he
                    cried, when the carriage had driven off and he returned to his friend. “Such
                    blue eyes, such ringlets, such a ravishing
                    smile, such a fairy-like bonnet—all of a tremble with heartsease and dewy
                    spangles, shining out of a cloud of gauze. George Talboys, I feel like the hero
                    of a French novel; I am falling in love with my aunt.”
                The widower only sighed and puffed his cigar fiercely out of the open window.
                    Perhaps he was thinking of that far-away time—little better than five years ago,
                    in fact; but such an age gone by to him—when he first met the woman for whom he
                    had worn crape round his hat three days before. They returned, all those old
                    unforgotten feelings; they came back, with the scene of their birthplace. Again
                    he lounged with his brother officers upon the shabby pier at the shabby
                    watering-place, listening to a dreary band with a cornet that was a note and a
                    half flat. Again he heard the old operatic airs, and again she came
                    tripping towards him leaning on her old father's arm, and pretending (with such
                    a charming, delicious, serio-comic pretense) to be listening to the music, and
                    quite unaware of the admiration of half a dozen open-mouthed cavalry officers.
                    Again the old fancy came back that she was
                    something too beautiful for earth, or earthly uses, and that to approach her was
                    to walk in a higher atmosphere and to breathe a purer air. And since this she
                    had been his wife, and the mother of his child. She lay in the little churchyard
                    at Ventnor, and only a year ago he had given the order for her tombstone. A few
                    slow, silent tears dropped upon his waistcoat as he thought of these things in
                    the quiet and darkening room.
                Lady Audley was so exhausted when she reached home, that she excused herself from
                    the dinner-table, and retired at once to her dressing-room, attended by her
                    maid, Phœbe Marks.
                She was a little capricious in her conduct to this maid; sometimes very
                    confidential, sometimes rather reserved; but she was a liberal mistress, and the
                    girl had every reason to be satisfied with her situation.
                This evening, in spite of her fatigue, she was in extremely high spirits, and
                    gave an animated account of the races, and the company present at them.
                
                “I am tired to death, though, Phœbe,” she said by and by. “I'm afraid I must look
                    a perfect fright, after a day in the hot sun.”
                There were lighted candles on each side of the glass before which Lady Audley was
                    standing unfastening her dress. She looked full at her maid as she spoke, her
                    blue eyes clear and bright, and the rosy, childish lips puckered into an arch
                    smile.
                “You are a little pale, my lady,” answered the girl, “but you look as pretty as
                    ever.”
                “That's right, Phœbe,” she said, flinging herself into a chair and throwing back
                    her curls at the maid, who stood, brush in hand, ready to arrange the luxuriant
                    hair for the night. “Do you know, Phœbe, I have heard some people say that you
                    and I are alike?”
                “I have heard them say so too, my lady,” said the girl quietly, “but they must be
                    very stupid to say it, for your ladyship is a beauty, and I'm a poor plain
                    creature.”
                “Not at all, Phœbe,” said the little lady superbly; “you are like
                    me, and your features are very nice; it is only colour that you want. My hair is pale yellow shot with gold, and yours
                    is drab; my eyebrows and eyelashes are dark brown, and yours are almost—I
                    scarcely like to say it, but they're almost white, my dear Phœbe; your
                    complexion is sallow, and mine is pink and rosy. Why, with a bottle of hair dye,
                    such as we see advertised in the papers, and a pot of rouge, you'd be as
                    good-looking as I any day, Phœbe.”
                She prattled on in this way for a long time, talking of a hundred frivolous
                    subjects, and ridiculing the people she had met at the races for her maid's
                    amusement. Her step-daughter came into the dressing-room to bid her good-night,
                    and found the maid and mistress laughing aloud over one of the day's adventures.
                    Alicia, who was never familiar with her servants, withdrew in disgust at my
                    lady's frivolity.
                “Go on brushing my hair, Phœbe,” Lady Audley said, every time the girl was about
                    to complete her task; “I quite enjoy a chat with you.”
                At last, just as she had dismissed her maid, she suddenly called her back. “Phœbe
                    Marks,” she said, “I want you to do me a favour.”
                
                “Yes, my lady.”
                “I want you to go to London by the first train to-morrow morning to execute a
                    little commission for me. You may take a day's holiday afterwards, as I know you
                    have friends in town, and I shall give you a five-pound note if you do what I
                    want, and keep your own counsel about it.”
                “Yes, my lady.”
                “See that that door is securely shut, and come and sit on this stool at my
                    feet.”
                The girl obeyed. Lady Audley smoothed her maid's neutral-tinted hair with her
                    plump, white, and bejeweled hand as she reflected for a few moments.
                “And now listen, Phœbe. What I want you to do is very simple.”
                It was so simple that it was told in five minutes, and then Lady Audley retired
                    into her bed-room, and curled herself up cozily under the eider-down quilt. She
                    was a chilly little creature, and loved to bury herself in soft wrappings of
                    satin and fur.
                “Kiss me, Phœbe,” she said, as the girl
                    arranged the curtains. “I hear Sir Michael's step in the anteroom; “you will
                    meet him as you go out, and you may as well tell him that you are going up by
                    the first train to-morrow morning to get my dress from Madame Frederick for the
                    dinner at Morton Abbey.”
                It was late the next morning when Lady Audley went down to breakfast—past ten
                    o'clock. While she was sipping her coffee a servant brought her a sealed packet,
                    and a book for her to sign.
                “A telegraphic message!” she cried; for the convenient word telegram had not yet
                    been invented. “What can be the matter?”
                She looked up at her husband with wide-open, terrified eyes, and seemed half
                    afraid to break the seal. The envelope was addressed to Miss Lucy Graham, at Mr.
                    Dawson's, and had been sent on from the village.
                “Read it, my darling,” he said, “and do not be alarmed; it may be nothing of any
                    importance.”
                It came from a Mrs. Vincent, the schoolmistress to whom she had referred on
                    entering Mr. 
                        Daw-
                        Dawson's
                     son's family. The lady was
                    dangerously ill, and implored her old pupil to go and see her.
                “Poor soul! she always meant to leave me her money,” said Lucy, with a mournful
                    smile. “She has never heard of the change in my fortunes. Dear Sir Michael, I
                    must go to her.”
                “To be sure you must, dearest. If she was kind to my poor girl in her adversity,
                    she has a claim upon her prosperity that shall never be forgotten. Put on your
                    bonnet, Lucy; we shall be in time to catch the express.”
                “You will go with me?”
                “Of course, my darling. Do you suppose I would let you go alone?”
                “I was sure you would go with me,” she said thoughtfully.
                “Does your friend send any address?”
                “No; but she always lived at Crescent Villa, West Brompton; and no doubt she
                    lives there still.”
                There was only time for Lady Audley to hurry on her bonnet and shawl before she
                    heard the carriage drive round to the door, and Sir Michael calling to her at
                    the foot of the staircase.
                
                Her suite of rooms, as I have said, opened one out of another, and terminated in
                    an octagon antechamber hung with oil paintings. Even in her haste she paused
                    deliberately at the door of this room, double locked it, and dropped the key
                    into her pocket. This door, once locked, cut off all access to my lady's
                    apartments.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                BEFORE THE STORM.
                SO the dinner at Audley Court was postponed, and Miss Alicia had to wait
                    still longer for an introduction to the handsome young widower, Mr. George
                    Talboys.
                I am afraid, if the real truth is to be told, there was, perhaps, something of
                    affectation in the anxiety this young lady expressed to make George's
                    acquaintance; but if poor Alicia for a moment calculated upon arousing any
                    latent spark of jealousy lurking in her cousin's breast by this exhibition of
                    interest, she was not so well acquainted with Robert Audley's disposition as she
                    might have been. Indolent, handsome, and indifferent, the young barrister took
                    life as altogether too absurd a mistake for any one event in its foolish course
                    to be for a moment considered seriously by a sensible man.
                
                His pretty, gipsy-faced cousin might have been over head and ears in love with
                    him, and she might have told him so, in some charming, roundabout, womanly
                    fashion, a hundred times a day for all the three hundred and sixty-five days in
                    the year; but unless she had waited for some privileged 29th of February, and
                    walked straight up to him, saying, “Robert, please will you marry me?” I very
                    much doubt if he would ever have discovered the state of her feelings.
                Again, had he been in love with her himself, I fancy that the tender passion
                    would, with him, have been so vague and feeble a sentiment that he might have
                    gone down to his grave with a dim sense of some uneasy sensation which might be
                    love or indigestion, and with, beyond this, no knowledge whatever of his
                    state.
                So it was not the least use, my poor Alicia, to ride about the lanes round Audley
                    during those three days which the two young men spent in Essex; it was wasted
                    trouble to wear that pretty cavalier hat and plume, and to be always, by the
                    most singular of chances, meeting Robert and
                    his friend. The black curls (nothing like Lady Audley's feathery ringlets, but
                    heavy clustering locks, that clung about your slender brown throat), the red and
                    pouting lips, the nose inclined to be retroussé; the dark complexion, with its bright crimson flush,
                    always ready to glance up like a signal light in a dusky sky, when you came
                    suddenly upon your apathetic cousin—all this coquettish, espiègle, brunette beauty was thrown away upon the dull eyes of
                    Robert Audley, and you might as well have taken your rest in the cool
                    drawing-room at the Court, instead of working your pretty mare to death under
                    the hot September sun.
                Now fishing, except to the devoted disciple of Izaak Walton, is not the most
                    lively of occupations; therefore it is scarcely, perhaps, to be wondered that on
                    the day after Lady Audley's departure, the two young men (one of whom was
                    disabled, by that heart wound which he bore so quietly, from really taking
                    pleasure in anything, and the other of whom looked upon almost all pleasure as a
                    negative kind of trouble) began to grow weary
                    of the shade of the willows overhanging the winding streams about Audley.
                “Fig-tree Court is not gay in the long vacation,” said Robert reflectively: “but
                    I think, upon the whole, it's better than this; at any rate it's near a
                    tobacconist's,” he added, puffing resignedly at an execrable cigar procured from
                    the landlord of the Sun Inn.
                George Talboys, who had only consented to the Essex expedition in passive
                    submission to his friend, was by no means inclined to object to their immediate
                    return to London. “I shall be glad to get back, Bob,” he said, “for I want to
                    take a run down to Southampton; I haven't seen the little one for upwards of a
                    month.”
                He always spoke of his son as “the little one;” always spoke of him mournfully
                    rather than hopefully. It seemed as if he could take no comfort from the thought
                    of his boy. He accounted for this by saying that he had a fancy that the child
                    would never learn to love him; and worse even than this fancy, a dim
                    presentiment that he would not live to see his little Georgey reach manhood.
                
                “I'm not a romantic man, Bob,” he would say sometimes, “and I never read a line
                    of poetry in my life that was any more to me than so many words and so much
                    jingle; but a feeling has come over me since my wife's death, that I am like a
                    man standing upon a long low shore, with hideous cliffs frowning down upon him
                    from behind, and the rising tide crawling slowly but surely about his feet. It
                    seems to grow nearer and nearer every day, that black, pitiless tide; not
                    rushing upon me with a great noise and a mighty impetus, but crawling, creeping,
                    stealing, gliding towards me, ready to close in above my head when I am least
                    prepared for the end.”
                Robert Audley stared at his friend in silent amazement; and, after a pause of
                    profound deliberation, said solemnly, “George Talboys, I could understand this
                    if you had been eating heavy suppers. Cold pork, now, especially if underdone,
                    might produce this sort of thing. You want change of air, dear boy; you want the
                    refreshing breezes of Fig-tree Court, and the soothing atmosphere of Fleet
                    Street. Or, stay,” he added suddenly; “I have
                    it! You've been smoking our friend the landlord's cigars; that accounts for
                    everything.”
                They met Alicia Audley on her mare about half an hour after they had come to the
                    determination of leaving Essex early the next morning. The young lady was very
                    much surprised and disappointed at hearing her cousin's determination, and for
                    that very reason pretended to take the matter with supreme indifference.
                “You are very soon tired of Audley, Robert,” she said carelessly; “but of course
                    you have no friends here, except your relations at the Court; while in London,
                    no doubt, you have the most delightful society, and—”
                “I get good tobacco,” murmured Robert, interrupting his cousin. “Audley is the
                    dearest old place, but when a man has to smoke dried cabbage leaves, you know,
                    Alicia—”
                “Then you really are going to-morrow morning?”
                “Positively—by the express train that leaves at 10.50.”
                
                “Then Lady Audley will lose an introduction to Mr. Talboys, and Mr. Talboys will
                    lose the chance of seeing the prettiest woman in Essex.”
                “Really—” stammered George.
                “The prettiest woman in Essex would have a poor chance of getting much admiration
                    out of my friend, George Talboys,” said Robert. “His heart is at Southampton,
                    where he has a curly-headed little urchin, about as high as his knee, who calls
                    him ‘the big gentleman,’ and asks him for sugar-plums.”
                “I am going to write to my step-mother by to-night's post,” said Alicia. “She
                    asked me particularly, in her letter, how long you were going to stop, and
                    whether there was any chance of her being back in time to receive you.”
                Miss Audley took a letter from the pocket of her riding-jacket as she spoke—a
                    pretty, fairy-like note, written on shining paper of a peculiar creamy hue.
                “She says in her postcript, ‘Be sure you answer my question about Mr. Audley and
                    his friend, you volatile, forgetful Alicia!’”
                
                “What a pretty hand she writes!” said Robert, as his cousin folded the note.
                “Yes, it is pretty, is it not? Look at it, Robert.”
                She put the letter into his hand, and he contemplated it lazily for a few
                    minutes, while Alicia patted the graceful neck of her chestnut mare, which was
                    anxious to be off once more.
                “Presently, Atalanta, presently. Give me back my note, Bob.”
                “It is the prettiest, most coquettish little hand I ever saw. Do you know,
                    Alicia, I never believed in those fellows who ask you for thirteen postage
                    stamps, and offer to tell you what you have never been able to find out
                    yourself; but upon my word I think that if I had never seen your aunt, I should
                    know what she was like by this slip of paper. Yes, here it all is—the feathery,
                    gold-shot, flaxen curls, the penciled eyebrows, the tiny straight nose, the
                    winning childish smile, all to be guessed in these few graceful up-strokes and
                    down-strokes. George, look here!”
                But absent-minded and gloomy George Talboys had
                    strolled away along the margin of a ditch, and stood striking the bulrushes with
                    his cane, half-a-dozen paces away from Robert and Alicia.
                “Never mind,” said the young lady impatiently; for she by no means relished this
                    long disquisition upon my lady's little note. “Give me the letter, and let me
                    go; it's past eight, and I must answer it by to-night's post. Come, Atalanta!
                    Good-by, Robert—good-by, Mr. Talboys. A pleasant journey to town.”
                The chestnut mare cantered briskly through the lane, and Miss Audley was out of
                    sight before those two big bright tears that stood in her eyes for one moment,
                    before her pride sent them back again, rose from her angry heart.
                “To have only one cousin in the world,” she cried passionately, “my nearest
                    relation after papa, and for him to care about as much for me as he would for a
                    dog!”
                By the merest of accidents, however, Robert and his friend did not go by the
                    10.50 express on the following morning, for the young barrister awoke with such
                    a splitting headache, that he asked George to
                    send him a cup of the strongest green tea that had ever been made at the Sun,
                    and to be furthermore so good as to defer their journey until the next day. Of
                    course George assented, and Robert Audley spent the forenoon lying in a darkened
                    room, with a five-days'-old Chelmsford paper to entertain himself withal.
                “It's nothing but the cigars, George,” he said repeatedly. “Get me out of the
                    place without my seeing the landlord; for if that man and I meet there will be
                    bloodshed.”
                Fortunately for the peace of Audley, it happened to be market-day at Chelmsford;
                    and the worthy landlord had ridden off in his chaise-cart to purchase supplies
                    for his house—amongst other things, perhaps, a fresh stock of those very cigars
                    which had been so fatal in their effect upon Robert.
                The young men spent a dull, dawdling, stupid, unprofitable day; and towards dusk
                    Mr. Audley proposed that they should stroll down to the Court, and ask Alicia to
                    take them over the house.
                “It will kill a couple of hours you know,
                    George; and it seems a great pity to drag you away from Audley without having
                    shown you the old place, which I give you my honour is very well worth
                    seeing.”
                The sun was low in the skies as they took a short cut through the meadows, and
                    crossed a stile into the avenue leading to the archway—a lurid, heavy-looking,
                    ominous sun-set, and a deathly stillness in the air, which frightened the birds
                    that had a mind to sing, and left the field open to a few captious frogs
                    croaking in the ditches. Still as the atmosphere was, the leaves rustled with
                    that sinister, shivering motion which proceeds from no outer cause, but is
                    rather an instinctive shudder of the frail branches, prescient of a coming
                    storm. That stupid clock, which knew no middle course, and always skipped from
                    one hour to the other, pointed to seven as the young men passed under the
                    archway; but, for all that, it was nearer eight.
                They found Alicia in the lime-walk, wandering listlessly up and down under the
                    black shadow of the trees, from which every now and then a withered leaf flapped slowly to the ground.
                Strange to say, George Talboys, who very seldom observed anything, took
                    particular notice of this place.
                “It ought to be an avenue in a churchyard,” he said. “How peacefully the dead
                    might sleep under this sombre shade! I wish the churchyard at Ventnor was like
                    this.”
                They walked on to the ruined well; and Alicia told them some old legend connected
                    with the spot—some gloomy story, such as those always attached to an old house,
                    as if the past were one dark page of sorrow and crime.
                “We want to see the house before it is dark, Alicia,” said Robert.
                “Then we must be quick,” she answered. “Come.”
                She led the way through an open French window, modernised a few years before,
                    into the library, and thence to the hall.
                In the hall they passed my lady's pale-faced
                    maid, who looked furtively under her white eyelashes at the two young men.
                They were going up-stairs, when Alicia turned and spoke to the girl.
                “After we have been in the drawing-room I should like to show these gentlemen
                    Lady Audley's rooms. Are they in good order, Phœbe?”
                “Yes, Miss; but the door of the ante-room is locked, and I fancy that my lady has
                    taken the key to London.”
                “Taken the key! Impossible!” cried Alicia.
                “Indeed, Miss, I think she has. I cannot find it, and it always used to be in the
                    door.”
                “I declare,” said Alicia impatiently, “that is not at all unlike my lady to have
                    taken this silly freak into her head. I dare say she was afraid we should go
                    into her rooms, and pry about amongst her pretty dresses, and meddle with her
                    jewellry. It is very provoking, for the best pictures in the house are in that
                    ante-chamber. There is her own portrait, too, unfinished, but wonderfully
                    like.”
                
                “Her portrait!” exclaimed Robert Audley. “I would give anything to see it, for I
                    have only an imperfect notion of her face. Is there no other way of getting into
                    the room, Alicia?”
                “Another way?”
                “Yes; is there any door, leading through some of the other rooms, by which we can
                    contrive to get into hers?”
                His cousin shook her head, and conducted them into a corridor where there were
                    some family portraits. She showed them a tapestried chamber, the large figures
                    upon the faded canvas looking threatening in the dusky light.
                “That fellow with the battle-axe looks as if he wanted to split George's head
                    open,” said Mr. Audley, pointing to a fierce warrior whose uplifted arm appeared
                    above George Talboys' dark hair.
                “Come out of this room, Alicia. I believe it's damp, or else haunted. Indeed I
                    believe all ghosts to be the result of damp. You sleep in a damp bed—you awake
                    suddenly in the dead of the night with a cold shiver, and see an old lady in the
                    court costume of George the First's time,
                    sitting at the foot of the bed. The old lady is indigestion, and the cold shiver
                    is a damp sheet.”
                There were lighted candles in the drawing-room. No newfangled lamps had ever made
                    their appearance at Audley Court. Sir Michael's rooms were lighted by honest,
                    thick, yellow-looking wax candles, in massive silver candlesticks, and in
                    sconces against the walls.
                There was very little to see in the drawing-room; and George Talboys soon grew
                    tired of staring at the handsome modern furniture, and at a few pictures by some
                    of the Academicians.
                “Isn't there a secret passage, or an old oak chest, or something of that kind,
                    somewhere about the place, Alicia?” asked Robert.
                “To be sure!” cried Miss Audley, with a vehemence that startled her cousin; “of
                    course. Why didn't I think of it before? How stupid of me, to be sure!”
                “Why stupid?”
                “Because, if you don't mind crawling upon your hands and knees, you can see my
                    lady's apartments, for that very passage communicates with her dressing-room. She doesn't know of it
                    herself, I believe. How astonished she'd be if some black-visored burglar, with
                    a dark-lantern, were to rise through the floor some night as she sat before her
                    looking-glass, having her hair dressed for a party!”
                “Shall we try the secret passage, George?” asked Mr. Audley.
                “Yes, if you wish it.”
                Alicia led them into the room which had once been her nursery. It was now
                    disused, except on very rare occasions when the house was full of company.
                Robert Audley lifted a corner of the carpet, according to his cousin's
                    directions, and disclosed a rudely-cut trap-door in the oak flooring.
                “Now listen to me,” said Alicia. “You must let yourself down by your hands into
                    the passage, which is about four feet high; stoop your head, and walk straight
                    along it till you come to a sharp turn which will take you to the left, and at
                    the extreme end of it you will find a short ladder below a trap-door like this,
                    which you will have to unbolt; that door opens
                    into the flooring of my lady's dressing-room, which is only covered with a
                    square Persian carpet that you can easily manage to raise. You understand
                    me?”
                “Perfectly.”
                “Then take the light; Mr. Talboys will follow you. I give you twenty minutes for
                    your inspection of the paintings—that is about a minute apiece—and at the end of
                    that time I shall expect to see you return.”
                Robert obeyed her implicitly, and George, submissively following his friend,
                    found himself, in five minutes, standing amidst the elegant disorder of Lady
                    Audley's dressing-room.
                She had left the house in a hurry on her unlooked-for journey to London, and the
                    whole of her glittering toilette apparatus lay about on the marble
                    dressing-table. The atmosphere of the room was almost oppressive for the rich
                    odours of perfumes in bottles whose gold stoppers had not been replaced. A bunch
                    of hothouse flowers was withering upon a tiny writing-table. Two or three handsome dresses lay in a heap upon the ground,
                    and the open doors of a wardrobe revealed the treasures within. Jewelry,
                    ivory-backed hair-brushes, and exquisite china were scattered here and there
                    about the apartment. George Talboys saw his bearded face and tall gaunt figure
                    reflected in the cheval-glass, and wondered to see how out of place he seemed
                    among all these womanly luxuries.
                They went from the dressing-room to the boudoir, and through the boudoir into the
                    ante-chamber, in which there were, as Alicia had said, about twenty valuable
                    paintings besides my lady's portrait.
                My lady's portrait stood on an easel covered with a green 
                        baize
                        baise
                     in the centre of the octagonal chamber. It had been a fancy of the
                    artist to paint her standing in this very room, and to make his background a
                    faithful reproduction of the pictured walls. I am afraid the young man belonged
                    to the pre-Raphaelite brotherhood, for he had spent a most unconscionable time
                    upon the accessories of this picture—upon my lady's crispy ringlets and the heavy folds of her crimson
                    velvet dress.
                The two young men looked at the paintings on the walls first, leaving this
                    unfinished portrait for a bonne bouche.
                By this time it was dark, the one candle carried by Robert only making one bright
                    nucleus of light as he moved about holding it before the pictures one by one.
                    The broad bare window looked out upon the pale sky, tinged with the last cold
                    flicker of the dead twilight. The ivy rustled against the glass with the same
                    ominous shiver as that which agitated every leaf in the garden, prophetic of the
                    storm that was to come.
                “There are our friend's eternal white horses,” said Robert, standing beside a
                    Wouvermans. “Nicholas Poussin—Salvator—ha—hum! Now for the portrait!”
                He paused with his hand on the baize, and solemnly addressed his friend.
                “George Talboys,” he said, “we have between us only one wax candle, a very
                    inadequate light with which to look at a
                    painting. Let me, therefore, request that you will suffer us to look at it one
                    at a time: if there is one thing more disagreeable than another, it is to have a
                    person dodging behind your back and peering over your shoulder, when you're
                    trying to see what a picture's made of.”
                George fell back immediately. He took no more interest in my lady's picture than
                    in all the other wearinesses of this troublesome world. He fell back, and
                    leaning his forehead against the window-panes, looked out at the night.
                When he turned round he saw that Robert had arranged the easel very conveniently,
                    and that he had seated himself on a chair before it for the purpose of
                    contemplating the painting at his leisure.
                He rose as George turned round.
                “Now, then, for your turn, Talboys,” he said. “It's an extraordinary
                    picture.”
                He took George's place at the window, and George seated himself in the chair
                    before the easel.
                Yes; the painter must have been a pre-
                    Raphaelite. No one but a pre-Raphaelite would have painted, hair by hair, those
                    feathery masses of ringlets with every glimmer of gold, and every shadow of pale
                    brown. No one but a pre-Raphaelite would have so exaggerated every attribute of
                    that delicate face as to give a lurid lightness to the blonde complexion, and a
                    strange, sinister light to the deep blue eyes. No one but a pre-Raphaelite could
                    have given to that pretty pouting mouth the hard and almost wicked look it had
                    in the portrait.
                It was so like and yet so unlike; it was as if you had burned strange-coloured
                    fires before my lady's face, and by their influence brought out new lines and
                    new expressions never seen in it before. The perfection of feature, the
                    brilliancy of colouring, were there; but I suppose the painter had copied quaint
                    mediæval monstrosities until his brain had grown bewildered, for my lady, in his
                    portrait of her, had something of the aspect of a beautiful fiend.
                Her crimson dress, exaggerated like all the rest in this strange picture, hung
                    about her in folds that looked like flames,
                    her fair head peeping out of the lurid mass of colour, as if out of a raging
                    furnace. Indeed, the crimson dress, the sunshine on the face, the red gold
                    gleaming in the yellow hair, the ripe scarlet of the pouting lips, the glowing
                    colors of each accessory of the minutely-painted background, all combined to
                    render the first effect of the painting by no means an agreeable one.
                But strange as the picture was, it could not have made any great impression on
                    George Talboys, for he sat before it for about a quarter of an hour without
                    uttering a word—only staring blankly at the painted canvas, with the candlestick
                    grasped in his strong right hand, and his left arm hanging loosely by his side.
                    He sat so long in this attitude, that Robert turned round at last.
                “Why, George, I thought you had gone to sleep!”
                “I had almost.”
                “You've caught a cold from standing in that damp tapestried room. Mark my words,
                        George Talboys, you've caught a cold;
                    you're as hoarse as a raven. But come along.”
                Robert Audley took the candle from his friend's hand, and crept back through the
                    secret passage, followed by George, very quiet, but scarcely more quiet than
                    usual.
                They found Alicia in the nursery waiting for them.
                “Well?” she said, interrogatively.
                “We managed it capitally. But I don't like the portrait; there's something odd
                    about it.”
                “There is,” said Alicia; “I've a strange fancy on that point. I think that
                    sometimes a painter is in a manner inspired, and is able to see, through the
                    normal expression of the face, another expression that is equally a part of it,
                    though not to be perceived by common eyes. We have never seen my
                    lady look as she does in that picture; but I think that she could
                    look so.”
                “Alicia,” said Robert Audley imploringly, “don't be German!”
                “But, Robert—”
                
                “Don't be German, Alicia, if you love me. The picture is—the picture; and my lady
                    is—my lady. That's my way of taking things, and I'm not metaphysical; don't
                    unsettle me.”
                He repeated this several times with an air of terror perfectly sincere; and then,
                    having borrowed an umbrella in case of being overtaken by the coming storm, left
                    the Court, leading passive George Talboys away with him. The one hand of the
                    stupid old clock had skipped to nine by the time they reached the archway; but
                    before they could pass under its shadow they had to step aside to allow a
                    carriage to dash by them. It was a fly from the village, but Lady Audley's fair
                    face peeped out at the window. Dark as it was, she could see the two figures of
                    the young men black against the dusk.
                “Who is that?” she asked, putting out her head. “Is it the gardener?”
                “No, my dear aunt,” said Robert, laughing; “it is your most dutiful nephew.”
                He and George stopped by the archway while the
                    fly drew up at the door, and the surprised servants came out to welcome their
                    master and mistress.
                “I think the storm will hold off to-night,” said the baronet, looking up at the
                    sky; “but we shall certainly have it tomorrow.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                AFTER THE STORM.
                SIR MICHAEL was mistaken in his prophecy upon the weather. The storm did
                    not hold off until next day, but burst with terrible fury over the village of
                    Audley about half an hour before midnight.
                Robert Audley took the thunder and lightning with the same composure with which
                    he accepted all the other ills of life. He lay on a sofa in the sitting-room,
                    ostensibly reading the five-days'-old Chelmsford paper, and regaling himself
                    occasionally with a few sips from a large tumbler of cold punch. But the storm
                    had quite a different effect upon George Talboys. His friend was startled when
                    he looked at the young man's white face as he sat opposite the open window
                    listening to the thunder, and staring at the
                    black sky, rent every now and then by forked streaks of steel-blue
                    lightning.
                “George,” said Robert, after watching him for some time, “are you frightened at
                    the lightning?”
                “No,” he answered curtly.
                “But, my dear fellow, some of the most courageous men have been frightened at it.
                    It is scarcely to be called a fear; it is constitutional. I am sure you are
                    frightened at it.”
                “No, I am not.”
                “But, George, if you could see yourself, white and haggard, with your great
                    hollow eyes staring out at the sky as if they were fixed upon a ghost. I tell
                    you I know that you are frightened.”
                “And I tell you that I am not.”
                “George Talboys, you are not only afraid of the lightning, but you are savage
                    with yourself for being afraid, and with me for telling you of your fear.”
                “Robert Audley, if you say another word to me I shall knock you down;” having
                    said which, Mr. Talboys strode out of the room, banging the door after him with a violence that shook the house.
                    Those inky clouds which had shut in the sultry earth as if with a roof of hot
                    iron, poured out their blackness in a sudden deluge as George left the room; but
                    if the young man was afraid of the lightning, he certainly was not afraid of the
                    rain; for he walked straight down stairs to the inn door, and went out into the
                    wet high road. He walked up and down, up and down, in the soaking shower for
                    about twenty minutes, and then, re-entering the inn, strode up to his
                    bedroom.
                Robert Audley met him on the landing, with his hair beaten about his white face,
                    and his garments dripping wet.
                “Are you going to bed, George?”
                “Yes.”
                “But you have no candle.”
                “I don't want one.”
                “But look at your clothes, man! Do you see the wet streaming down your
                    coat-sleeves? What on earth made you go out upon such a night?”
                
                “I am tired, and want to go to bed—don't bother me.”
                “You'll take some hot brandy-and-water, George?”
                Robert Audley stood in his friend's way as he spoke, anxious to prevent his going
                    to bed in he state he was in; but George pushed him fiercely aside, and striding
                    past him, said, in the same hoarse voice Robert had noticed at the Court—
                “Let me alone, Robert Audley, and keep clear of me if you can.”
                Robert followed George to his bed-room, but the young man banged the door in his
                    face; so there was nothing for it but to leave Mr. Talboys to himself, to
                    recover his temper as best he might.
                “He was irritated at my noticing his terror at the lightning,” though Robert, as
                    he calmly retired to rest, serenely indifferent to the thunder, which seemed to
                    shake him in his bed, and the lightning playing fitfully round the razors in his
                    open dressingcase.
                
                The storm rolled away from the quiet village of Audley, and when Robert awoke the
                    next morning it was to see bright sunshine, and a peep of cloudless sky between
                    the white curtains of his bedroom window.
                It was one of those serene and lovely mornings that sometimes succeed a storm.
                    The birds sung loud and cheerily, the yellow corn uplifted itself in the broad
                    fields, and waved proudly after its sharp tussle with the storm, which had done
                    its best to beat down the heavy ears with cruel wind and driving rain half the
                    night through. The vine-leaves clustering round Robert's window fluttered with a
                    joyous rustling, shaking the rain-drops in diamond showers from every spray and
                    tendril.
                Robert Audley found his friend waiting for him at the breakfast-table.
                George was very pale, but perfectly tranquil—if anything, indeed, more cheerful
                    than usual.
                He shook Robert by the hand with something of that old hearty manner for which he
                    had been distinguished before the one
                    affliction of his life overtook and shipwrecked him.
                “Forgive me, Bob,” he said frankly, “for my surly temper of last night. You were
                    quite correct in your assertion; the thunder-storm did upset me. It
                    always had the same effect upon me in my youth.”
                “Poor old boy! Shall we go up by the express, or shall we stop here and dine with
                    my uncle to-night?” asked Robert.
                “To tell the truth, Bob, I would rather do neither. It's a glorious morning.
                    Suppose we stroll about all day, take another turn with the rod and line, and go
                    up to town by the train that leaves here at 6.15 in the evening?”
                Robert Audley would have assented to a far more disagreeable proposition than
                    this, rather than have taken the trouble to oppose his friend, so the matter was
                    immediately agreed upon; and after they had finished their breakfast, and
                    ordered a four o'clock dinner, George Talboys took the fishing-rod across his
                    broad shoulders, and strode out of the house
                    with his friend and companion.
                But if the equable temperament of Mr. Robert Audley had been undisturbed by the
                    crackling peals of thunder that shook the very foundations of the Sun Inn, it
                    had not been so with the more delicate sensibilties of his uncle's young wife.
                    Lady Audley confessed herself terribly frightened of the lightning. She had her
                    bedstead wheeled into a corner of the room, and with the heavy curtains drawn
                    tightly round her, she lay with her face buried in the pillows, shuddering
                    convulsively at every souncd of the tempest without. Sir Michael, whose stout
                    heart had never known a fear, almost trembled for this fragile creature, whom it
                    was his happy privilege to protect and defend. My lady would not consent to
                    undress till nearly three o'clock in the morning, when the last lingering peal
                    of thunder had died away amongst the distant hills. Until that hour she lay in
                    the handsome silk dress in which she had travelled, huddled together amongst the
                    bed-clothes, only looking up now and then with
                    a scared face to ask if the storm was over.
                Towards four o'clock, her husband, who spent the night in watching by her
                    bed-side, saw her drop off into a deep sleep, from which she did not awake for
                    nearly five hours.
                But she came into the breakfast-room, at half-past nine o'clock, singing a little
                    Scotch melody, her cheeks tinged with as delicate a pink as the pale hue of her
                    muslin morning dress. Like the birds and the flowers, she seemed to recover her
                    beauty and joyousness in the morning sunshine. She tripped lightly out on to the
                    lawn, gathering a last lingering rosebud here and there, and a sprig or two of
                    geranium, and returning through the dewy grass, warbling long cadences for very
                    happiness of heart, and looking as fresh and radiant as the flowers in her
                    hands. The baronet caught her in his strong arms as she came in through the open
                    window.
                “My pretty one,” he said, “my darling, what happiness to see you your own merry
                    self again! Do you know, Lucy, that once last
                    night, when you looked out through the dark green bed-curtains, with your poor
                    white face, and the purple rims round your hollow eyes, I had almost a
                    difficulty to recognize my little wife in that ghastly, terrified,
                    agonised-looking creature, crying out about the storm. Thank God for the morning
                    sun, which has brought back the rosy cheeks and the bright smile! I hope to
                    Heaven, Lucy, I shall never again see you look as you did last night.”
                She stood on tiptoe to kiss him, and was then only tall enough to reach his white
                    beard. She told him, laughing, that she had always been a silly, frightened
                    creature,—frightened of dogs, frightened of cattle, frightened of a
                    thunderstorm, frightened of a rough sea. “Frigthened of everything and
                    everybody, but my dear, noble, handsome husband,” she said.
                She had found the carpet in her dressing-room disarranged, and had inquired into
                    the mystery of the secret passage. She chid Miss Alicia in a playful, laughing
                    way, for her boldness in introducing two great
                    men into my lady's rooms.
                “And they had the audacity to look at my picture, Alicia,” she said, with mock
                    indignation. “I found the baize thrown on the ground, and a great man's glove on
                    the carpet. Look!”
                She held up a thick driving-glove as she spoke. It was George's, which he had
                    dropped while looking at the picture.
                “I shall go up to the Sun, and ask those boys to dinner,” Sir Michael said, as he
                    left the Court upon his morning walk round his farm.
                Lady Audley flitted from room to room in the bright September sunshine—now
                    sitting down to the piano to trill out a ballad, or the first page of an Italian
                    bravura, or running with rapid fingers through a brilliant waltz—now hovering
                    about a stand of hot-house flowers, doing amateur gardening with a pair of
                    fairylike silver-mounted embroidery scissors—now strolling into her
                    dressing-room to talk to Phœbe Marks, and have her curls rearranged for the
                    third or fourth time; for the ringlets were
                    always getting into disorder, and gave no little trouble to Lady Audley's
                    maid.
                My lady seemed, on this particular September day, restless from very joyousness
                    of spirit, and unable to stay long in one place, or occupy herself with one
                    thing.
                While Lady Audley amused herself in her own frivolous fashion, the two young men
                    strolled slowly along the margin of a stream until they reached a shady corner
                    where the water was deep and still, and the long branches of the willows trailed
                    into the brook.
                George Talboys took the fishing-rod, while Robert stretched himself at full
                    length on a railway rug, and balancing his hat upon his nose as a screen from
                    the sunshine, fell fast asleep.
                Those were happy fish in the stream on the banks of which Mr. Talboys was seated.
                    They might have amused themselves to their heart's content with timid nibbles at
                    this gentleman's bait, without in any manner endangering their safety; for
                    George only stared vacantly at the water, holding his rod in a loose, listless hand, and with a strange
                    far-away look in his eyes. As the church clock struck two he threw down his rod,
                    and striding away along the bank, left Robert Audley to enjoy a nap, which,
                    according to that gentleman's habits, was by no means unlikely to last for two
                    or three hours. About a quarter of a mile further on George crossed a rustic
                    bridge, and struck into the meadows which led to Audley Court.
                The birds had sung so much all the morning that they had, perhaps, by this time
                    grown tired; the lazy cattle were asleep in the meadows; Sir Michael was still
                    away on his morning's ramble; Miss Alicia had scampered off an hour before upon
                    her chestnut mare; the servants were all at dinner in the back part of the
                    house; and my lady had strolled, book in hand, into the shadowy lime-walk; so
                    the grey old building had never worn a more peaceful aspect than on that bright
                    afternoon when George Talboys walked across the lawn to ring a sonorous peal at
                    the sturdy, iron-bound oak door.
                
                The servant who answered his summons told him that Sir Michael was out, and my
                    lady walking in the lime-tree avenue.
                He looked a little disappointed at this intelligence, and muttering something
                    about wishing to see my lady, or going to look for my lady (the servant did not
                    clearly distinguish his words), strode away from the door without leaving either
                    card or mesage for the family.
                It was full an hour and a half after this when Lady Audley returned to the house,
                    not coming from the lime-walk, but from exactly the opposite direction, carrying
                    her open book in her hand, and singing as she came. Alicia had just dismounted
                    from her mare, and stood in the low-arched doorway, with her great Newfoundland
                    dog by her side.
                The dog, which had never liked my lady, showed his teeth with a suppressed
                    growl.
                “Send that horrid animal away, Alicia,” Lady Audley said impatiently. “The brute
                    knows that I am frightened of him, and takes advantage of my terror. And yet
                    they call the 
                        crea-
                        creature
                     tures generous and noble-hearted!
                    Bah, Cæsar; I hate you, and you hate me; and if you met me in the dark in some
                    narrow passage you would fly at my throat and strangle me, wouldn't you?”
                My lady, safely sheltered behind her step-daughter, shook her yellow curls at the
                    angry animal, and defied him maliciously.
                “Do you know, Lady Audley, that Mr. Talboys, the young widower, has been here
                    asking for Sir Michael and for you?”
                Lucy Audley lifted her penciled eyebrows. “I thought he was coming to dinner,”
                    she said. “Surely we shall have enough of him then.”
                She had a heap of wild autumn flowers in the skirt of her muslin dress. She had
                    come through the fields at the back of the Court, gathering the hedge-row
                    blossoms in her way. She ran lightly up the broad staircase to her own rooms.
                    George's glove lay on her boudoir table. Lady Audley rang the bell violently,
                    and it was answered by Phœbe Marks. “Take that litter away,” she said sharply.
                    The girl collected the glove and a few
                    withered flowers and torn papers lying on the table into her apron.
                “What have you been doing all this morning?” asked my lady. “Not wasting your
                    time, I hope?”
                “No, my lady, I have been altering the blue dress. It is rather dark on this side
                    of the house, so I took it up to my own room, and worked at the window.”
                The girl was leaving the room as she spoke, but she turned around and looked at
                    Lady Audley as if waiting for further orders.
                Lucy looked up at the same moment, and the eyes of the two women met.
                “Phœbe Marks,” said my lady, throwing herself into an easy chair, and trifling
                    with the wild flowers in her lap, “you are a good industrious girl, and while I
                    live and am prosperous you shall never want a firm friend or a twenty-pound
                    note.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                MISSING.
                WHEN Robert Audley awoke he was surprised to see the fishing-rod lying
                    on the bank, the line trailing idly in the water, and the float bobbing
                    harmlessly up and down in the afternoon sunshine. The young barrister was a long
                    time stretching his arms and legs in various directions to convince himself, by
                    means of such exercise, that he still retained the proper use of those members;
                    then, with a mighty effort, he contrived to rise from the grass, and having
                    deliberately folded his railway rug into a convenient shape for carrying over
                    his shoulder, he strolled away to look for George Talboys.
                Once or twice he gave a sleepy shout, scarcely loud enough to scare the birds in
                    the branches above his head, or the trout in the stream at his feet; but
                    receiving no answer, grew tired of the
                    exertion, and dawdled on, yawning as he went, and still looking for George
                    Talboys.
                By-and-by he took out his watch, and was surprised to find that it was a quarter
                    past four.
                “Why, the selfish beggar must have gone home to his dinner!” he muttered
                    reflectively; “and yet that isn't much like him, for he seldom remembers even
                    his meals unless I jog his memory.”
                Even a good appetite, and the knowledge that his dinner would very likely suffer
                    by this delay, could not quicken Mr. Robert Audley's constitutional dawdle, and
                    by the time he strolled in at the front door of the Sun the clocks were striking
                    five. He so fully expected to find George Talboys waiting for him in the little
                    sitting-room, that the absence of that gentleman seemed to give the apartment a
                    dreary look, and Robert groaned aloud.
                “This is lively!” he said. “A cold dinner, and nobody to eat it with!”
                
                The landlord of the Sun came himself to apologise for his ruined dishes
                “As fine a pair of ducks, Mr. Audley, as ever you clapped eyes on, but burnt up
                    to a cinder, along of being kep' hot.”
                “Never mind the ducks,” Robert said, impatiently; “where's Mr. Talboys?”
                “He ain't been in, sir, since you went out together this morning.”
                “What!” cried Robert. “Why, in heaven's name, what has the man done with
                    himself?”
                He walked to the window and looked out upon the broad white high road. There was
                    a waggon laden with trusses of hay crawling slowly past, the lazy horses and the
                    lazy waggoner drooping their heads with a weary stoop under the afternoon
                    sunshine. There was a flock of sheep straggling about the road, with a dog
                    running himself into a fever in the endeavour to keep them decently together.
                    There were some bricklayers just released from work—a tinker mending some
                    kettles by the road-side; there was a dogcart dashing down the road, carrying
                    the master of the Audley hounds to his seven
                    o'clock dinner; there were a dozen common village sights and sounds that mixed
                    themselves up into a cheerful bustle and confusion; but there was no George
                    Talboys.
                “Of all the extraordinary things that ever happened to me in the whole course of
                    my life,” said Mr. Robert Audley, “this is the most miraculous!”
                The landlord, still in attendance, opened his eyes as Robert made this remark.
                    What could there be so extraordinary in the simple fact of a gentleman being
                    late for his dinner?
                “I shall go and look for him,” said Robert, snatching up his hat and walking
                    straight out of the house.
                But the question was where to look for him. He certainly was not by the trout
                    stream, so it was no good going back there in search of him. Robert was standing
                    before the inn, deliberating on what was best to be done, when the landlord came
                    out after him.
                “I forgot to tell you, Mr. Audley, as how your
                    uncle called here five minutes after you was gone, and left a message asking of
                    you and the other gentleman to go down to dinner at the Court.”
                “Then I shouldn't wonder,” said Robert, “if George Talboys has gone down to the
                    Court to call upon my uncle. It isn't like him, but it's just possible that he
                    has done it.”
                It was six o'clock when Robert knocked at the door of his uncle's house. He did
                    not ask to see any of the family, but inquired at once for his friend.
                Yes, the servant told him; Mr. Talboys had been there at two o'clock, or a little
                    after.
                “And not since?”
                “No, not since.”
                Was the man sure that it was at two Mr. Talboys called? Robert asked.
                Yes, perfectly sure. He remembered the hour because it was the servants' dinner
                    hour, and he had left the table to open the door to Mr. Talboys.
                “Why, what can have become of the man?” thought
                    Robert, as he turned his back upon the Court. “From two till six—four good
                    hours—and no signs of him!”
                If any one had ventured to tell Mr. Robert Audley that he could possibly feel a
                    strong attachment to any creature breathing, that cynical gentleman would have
                    elevated his eyebrows in supreme contempt at the preposterous notion. Yet here
                    he was, flurried and anxious, bewildering his brain by all manner of conjectures
                    about his missing friend, and, false to every attribute of his nature, walking
                    fast.
                “I haven't walked fast since I was at Eton,” he murmured, as he hurried across
                    one of Sir Michael's meadows in the direction of the village; “and the worst of
                    it is that I haven't the most remote idea where I am going.”
                He crossed another meadow, and then seating himself upon a stile, rested his
                    elbows upon his knees, buried his face in his hands, and set himself seriously
                    to think the matter out.
                “I have it!” he said, after a few minutes' thought; “the railway station!” He
                        sprang over the stile, and started off in
                    the direction of the little red brick building.
                There was no train expected for another half hour, and the clerk was taking his
                    tea in an apartment on one side of the office, on the door of which was
                    inscribed, in large white letters, “Private.”
                But Mr. Audley was too much occupied with the one idea of looking for his friend
                    to pay any attention to this warning. He strode at once to the door, and
                    rattling his cane against it, brought the clerk out of his sanctum in a
                    perspiration from hot tea, and with his mouth full of bread and butter.
                “Do you remember the gentleman that came down to Audley with me, Smithers?” asked
                    Robert.
                “Well, to tell you the real truth, Mr. Audley, I can't say that I do. You came by
                    the four o'clock, if you remember, and there's always a many by that train.”
                “You don't remember him, then?”
                “Not to my knowledge, sir.”
                
                “That's provoking! I want to know, Smithers, whether he has taken a ticket for
                    London since two o'clock to-day. He's a tall, broad-chested young fellow, with a
                    big brown beard. You couldn't well mistake him.”
                “There was four or five gentlemen as took tickets for the 3.30 up,” said the
                    clerk rather vaguely, casting an anxious glance over his shoulder at his wife,
                    who looked by no means pleased at this interruption to the harmony of the
                    tea-table.
                “Four or five gentlemen! But did either of them answer to the description of my
                    friend?”
                “Well, I think one of them had a beard, sir.”
                “A dark-brown beard?”
                “Well, I don't know but it was brownish-like.”
                “Was he dressed in grey?”
                “I believe it was grey: a many gents wear grey. He asked for the ticket sharp and
                    short like, and when he'd got it walked straight out on to the platform
                    whistling.”
                
                “That's George!” said Robert. “Thank you, Smithers; I needn't trouble you any
                    more. It's as clear as daylight,” he muttered, as he left the station, “he's got
                    one of his gloomy fits on him, and he's gone back to London without saying a
                    word about it. I'll leave Audley myself to-morrow morning; and for to-night—why,
                    I may as well go down to the Court, and make the acquaintance of my uncle's
                    young wife. They don't dine till seven: if I get back across the fields I shall
                    be in time. Bob—otherwise Robert Audley, this sort of thing will never do: you
                    are falling over head and ears in love with your aunt.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XI.
                THE MARK UPON MY LADY'S WRIST.
                ROBERT found Sir Michael and Lady Audley in the drawing-room. My lady
                    was sitting on a music-stool before the grand piano, turning over the leaves of
                    some new music. She twirled round upon this revolving seat, making a rustling
                    with her silk flounces, as Mr. Robert Audley's name was announced; then, leaving
                    the piano, she made her nephew a pretty mock ceremonious curtsey. “Thank you so
                    much for the sables,” she said, holding out her little fingers, all glittering
                    and twinkling with the diamonds she wore upon them; “thank you for those
                    beautiful sables. How good it was of you to get them for me!”
                Robert had almost forgotten the commission he had executed for Lady Audley during
                    his Russian expedition. His mind was so full of George Talboys that he only acknowledged my lady's gratitude
                    by a bow.
                “Would you believe it, Sir Michael?” he said. “That foolish chum of mine has gone
                    back to London, leaving me in the lurch.”
                “Mr. George Talboys returned to town!” exclaimed my lady, lifting her
                    eyebrows.
                “What a dreadful catastrophe!” said Alicia maliciously, “since Pythias, in the
                    person of Mr. Robert Audley, cannot exist for half an hour without Damon,
                    commonly known as George Talboys.”
                “He's a very good fellow,” Robert said stoutly; “and to tell the honest truth,
                    I'm rather uneasy about him.”
                Uneasy about him! My lady was quite anxious to know why Robert was uneasy about
                    his friend.
                “I'll tell you why, Lady Audley,” answered the young barrister. “George had a
                    bitter blow a year ago in the death of his wife. He has never got over that
                    trouble. He takes life pretty quietly—almost as quietly as I do—but he often
                    talks very strangely, and I sometimes think that one day this grief will get the better of him, and he'll
                    do something rash.”
                Mr. Robert Audley spoke vaguely; but all three of his listeners knew that the
                    something rash to which he alluded was that one deed for which there is no
                    repentance.
                There was a brief pause, during which Lady Audley arranged her yellow ringlets by
                    the aid of the glass over the console table opposite to her.
                “Dear me!” she said, “this is very strange. I did not think men were capable of
                    these deep and lasting affections. I thought that one pretty face was as good as
                    another pretty face to them, and that when number one with blue eyes and fair
                    hair died, they had only to look out for number two with black eyes and hair, by
                    way of variety.”
                “George Talboys is not one of those men. I firmly believe that his wife's death
                    broke his heart.”
                “How sad!” murmured Lady Audley. “It seems almost cruel of Mrs. Talboys to die,
                    and grieve her poor husband so much.”
                
                “Alicia was right; she is childish,” thought Robert, as he looked at
                    his aunt's pretty face.
                My lady was very charming at the dinner-table; she professed the most bewitching
                    incapacity for carving the pheasant set before her, and called Robert to her
                    assistance.
                “I could carve a leg of mutton at Mr. Dawson's,” she said, laughing; “but a leg
                    of mutton is so easy; and then I used to stand up.”
                Sir Michael watched the impression my lady made upon his nephew with a proud
                    delight in her beauty and fascination.
                “I am so glad to see my poor little woman in her usual good spirits once more,”
                    he said. “She was very down-hearted yesterday at a disappointment she met with
                    in London.”
                “A disappointment!”
                “Yes, Mr. Audley, a very cruel one,” answered my lady. “I received the other
                    morning a telegraphic message from my dear old friend and schoolmistress,
                    telling me that she was dying, and that if I wanted to see her again I must
                    hasten to her immediately. The telegraphic dispatch 
                        con-
                        contained
                     tained no address, and of course,
                    from that very circumstance, I imagined that she must be living in the house in
                    which I left her three years ago. Sir Michael and I hurried up to town
                    immediately, and drove straight to the old address. The house was occupied by
                    strange people, who could give me no tidings of my friend. It is in a retired
                    place, where there are very few tradespeople about. Sir Michael made inquiries
                    at the few shops there are, but, after taking an immense deal of trouble, could
                    discover nothing whatever likely to lead to the information we wanted. I have no
                    friends in London, and had therefore no one to assist me except my dear,
                    generous husband, who did all in his power, but in vain, to find my friend's new
                    residence.”
                “It was very foolish not to send the address in the telegraphic message,” said
                    Robert.
                “When people are dying it is not so easy to think of all these things,” murmured
                    my lady, looking reproachfully at Mr. Audley with her soft blue eyes.
                
                In spite of Lady Audley's fascination, and in spite of Robert's very unqualified
                    admiration of her, the barrister could not overcome a vague feeling of
                    uneasiness on this quiet September evening.
                As he sat in the deep embrasure of a mullioned window, talking to my lady, his
                    mind wandered away to shady Fig-tree Court, and he thought of poor George
                    Talboys smoking his solitary cigar in the room with the birds and the canaries.
                    “I wish I'd never felt any friendliness for the fellow,” he thought. “I feel
                    like a man who has an only son whose life has gone wrong with him. I wish to
                    Heaven I could give him back his wife, and send him down to Ventnor to finish
                    his days in peace.”
                Still my lady's pretty musical prattle ran on as merrily and continuously as the
                    babble of some brook; and still Robert's thoughts wandered, in spite of himself,
                    to George Talboys.
                He thought of him hurrying down to Southampton by the mail train to see his boy.
                    He thought of him as he had often seen him, spelling over the shipping advertisements in the
                        Times, looking for a vessel to take him back to Australia. Once
                    he thought of him with a shudder, lying cold and stiff at the bottom of some
                    shallow stream, with his dead face turned toward the darkening sky.
                Lady Audley noticed his abstraction, and asked him what he was thinking of.
                “George Talboys,” he answered abruptly.
                She gave a little nervous shudder.
                “Upon my word,” she said, “you make me quite uncomfortable by the way in which
                    you talk of Mr. Talboys. One would think that something extraordinary had
                    happened to him.”
                “God forbid! But I cannot help feeling uneasy about him.”
                Later in the evening Sir Michael asked for some music, and my lady went to the
                    piano. Robert Audley strolled after her to the instrument to turn over the
                    leaves of her music; but she played from memory, and he was spared the trouble
                    his gallantry would have imposed upon him.
                
                He carried a pair of lighted candles to the piano, and arranged them conveniently
                    for the pretty musician. She struck a few chords, and then wandered into a
                    pensive sonata of Beethoven's. It was one of the many paradoxes in her
                    character, that love of sombre and melancholy melodies, so opposite to her gay,
                    frivolous nature.
                Robert Audley lingered by her side, and as he had no occupation in turning over
                    the leaves of her music, he amused himself by watching her jeweled white hands
                    gliding softly over the keys, with the lace sleeves dropping away from her
                    graceful arched wrists. He looked at her pretty fingers one by one; this one
                    glittering with a ruby heart; that encoiled by an emerald serpent; and about
                    them all a starry glitter of diamonds. From the fingers his eyes wandered to the
                    rounded wrists: the broad, flat, gold bracelet upon her right wrist dropped over
                    her hand, as she executed a rapid passage. She stopped abruptly to rearrange it;
                    but before she could do so, Robert Audley noticed a bruise upon her delicate
                    skin.
                
                “You have hurt your arm, Lady Audley,” he exclaimed.
                She hastily replaced the bracelet.
                “It is nothing,” she said. “I am unfortunate in having a skin which the slightest
                    touch bruises.”
                She went on playing, but Sir Michael came across the room to look into the matter
                    of the bruise upon his wife's pretty wrist.
                “What is it, Lucy?” he asked; “and how did it happen?”
                “How foolish you all are to trouble yourselves about anything so absurd!” said
                    Lady Audley, laughing. “I am rather absent in mind, and amused myself a few days
                    ago by tying a piece of ribbon around my arm so tightly, that it left a bruise
                    when I removed it.”
                “Hum!” thought Robert. “My lady tells little childish white lies; the bruise is
                    of a more recent date than a few days ago; the skin has only just begun to
                    change colour.”
                Sir Michael took the slender wrist in his strong hand.
                
                “Hold the candle, Robert,” he said, “and let us look at this poor little
                    arm.”
                It was not one bruise, but four slender, purple marks, such as might have been
                    made by the four fingers of a powerful hand that had grasped the delicate wrist
                    a shade too roughly. A narrow ribbon, bound tightly, might have left some such
                    marks, it is true, and my lady protested once more that, to the best of her
                    recollection, that must have been how they were made.
                Across one of the faint purple marks there was a darker tinge, as if a ring worn
                    on one of these strong and cruel fingers had been ground into the tender
                    flesh.
                “I am sure my lady must tell white lies,” thought Robert, “for I can't believe
                    the story of the ribbon.”
                He wished his relations good night and good-by at about half past ten o'clock; he
                    said that he should run up to London by the first train to look for George, in
                    Fig-tree Court.
                “If I don't find him there, I shall go to Southampton,” he said; “and if I don't
                    find him there—”
                
                “What then?” asked my lady.
                “I shall think that something strange has happened.”
                Robert Audley felt very low-spirited as he walked slowly home between the shadowy
                    meadows; more low-sprited still when he re-entered the sitting room at the Sun
                    Inn, where he and George had lounged together, staring out of the window, and
                    smoking their cigars.
                “To think,” he said, meditatively, “that it is possible to care so much for a
                    fellow! But come what may, I'll go up to town after him the first thing
                    to-morrow morning, and sooner than be balked in finding him, I'll go to the very
                    end of the world.”
                With Mr. Robert Audley's lymphatic nature, determination was so much the
                    exception, rather than the rule, that when he did for once in his life resolve
                    upon any course of action, he had a certain dogged, iron-like obstinacy that
                    pushed him on to the fulfillment of his purpose.
                The lazy bent of his mind, which prevented him from thinking of half a dozen
                    things at a time, and not thinking thoroughly
                    of any one of them, as is the manner of your more energetic people, made him
                    remarkably clear-sighted upon any point to which he ever gave his serious
                    attention.
                Indeed, after all, though solemn benchers laughed at him, and rising barristers
                    shrugged their shoulders under rustling silk gowns when people spoke of Robert
                    Audley, I doubt if, had he ever taken the trouble to get a brief, he might not
                    have rather surprised the magnates who underrated his abilities.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XII.
                STILL MISSING.
                THE September sun-light sparkled upon the fountain in the Temple
                    Gardens, when Robert Audley returned to Fig-tree Court early the following
                    morning.
                He found the canaries singing in the pretty little room in which George had
                    slept, but the apartment was in the same prim order in which the laundress had
                    arranged it after the departure of the two young men—not a chair displaced, or
                    so much as the lid of a cigar-box lifted, to bespeak the presence of George
                    Talboys. With a last lingering hope he searched upon the mantel-pieces and
                    tables of his rooms, on the chance of finding some letter left by George.
                “He may have slept here last night, and started for Southampton early this
                        morning,” he thought. “Mrs. Maloney has
                    been here very likely, to make everything tidy after him.”
                But as he sat looking lazily round the room, now and then whistling to his
                    delighted canaries, a slip-shod foot upon the staircase without bespoke the
                    advent of that very Mrs. Maloney who waited upon the two young men.
                No, Mr. Talboys had not come home; she had looked in as early as six o'clock that
                    morning, and found the chambers empty.
                Had anything happened to the poor dear gentleman? she asked, seeing Robert
                    Audley's pale face.
                He turned round upon her quite savagely at this question.
                Happened to him! What should happen to him? They had only parted at two o'clock
                    the day before.
                Mrs. Maloney would have related to him the history of a poor dear young
                    engine-driver, who had once lodged with her, and who went out, after eating a
                    hearty dinner, in the best of spirits, to meet
                    with his death from the concussion of an express and a luggage train; but Robert
                    put on his hat again, and walked straight out of the house, before the honest
                    Irishwoman could begin her pitiful story.
                It was growing dusk when he reached Southampton. He knew his way to the poor
                    little terrace of houses, in a dull street leading down to the water, where
                    George's father-in-law lived. Little Georgey was playing at the open parlor
                    window as the young man walked down the street.
                Perhaps it was this fact, and the dull and silent aspect of the house, which
                    filled Robert Audley's mind with a vague conviction that the man he came to look
                    for was not there. The old man himself opened the door, and the child peeped out
                    of the parlour to look at the strange gentleman.
                He was a handsome boy, with his father's brown eyes and dark waving hair, and yet
                    with some latent expression which was not his father's, and which pervaded his
                    whole face, so that although each feature of
                    the child resembled the same feature in George Talboys, the boy was not actually
                    like him.
                The old man was delighted to see Robert Audley; he remembered having had the
                    pleasure of meeting him at Ventnor, on the melancholy occasion of — He wiped his
                    watery old eyes by way of conclusion to the sentence. Would Mr. Audley walk in?
                    Robert strode into the little parlour. The furniture was shabby and dingy, and
                    the place reeked with the smell of stale tobacco and brandy-and-water. The boy's
                    broken playthings and the old man's broken clay pipes, and torn,
                    brandy-and-water-stained newspapers, were scattered upon the dirty carpet.
                    Little Georgey crept towards the visitor, watching him furtively out of his big
                    brown eyes. Robert took the boy on his knee, and gave him his watch-chain to
                    play with while he talked to the old man.
                “I need scarcely ask the question that I came to ask,” he said. “I was in hopes I
                    should have found your son-in-law here.”
                
                “What! you knew that he was coming to Southampton?”
                “Knew that he was coming!” cried Robert, brightening up. “He is
                    here, then?”
                “No, he is not here now, but he has been here.”
                “When?”
                “Late last night; he came by the mail.”
                “And left again immediately?”
                “He stayed little better than an hour.”
                “Good Heavens!” said Robert, “what useless anxiety that man has given me! What
                    can be the meaning of all this?”
                “You knew nothing of his intention, then?”
                “Of what intention?”
                “I mean of his determination to go to Australia.”
                “I knew that it was always in his mind more or less, but not more just now than
                    usual.”
                “He sails to-night from Liverpool. He came here at one o'clock this morning to
                    have a look at the boy, he said, before he left England, perhaps never to
                    return. He told me he was sick of the world,
                    and that the rough life out there was the only thing to suit him. He stayed an
                    hour, kissed the boy, without awaking him, and left Southampton by the mail that
                    starts at a quarter past two.”
                “What can be the meaning of all this?” said Robert. “What could be his motive for
                    leaving England in this manner, without a word to me, his most intimate
                    friend—without even a change of clothes; for he has left everything at my
                    chambers? It is the most extraordinary proceeding!”
                The old man looked very grave. “Do you know, Mr. Audley,” he said, tapping his
                    forehead significantly, “I sometimes fancy that Helen's death had a strange
                    effect upon poor George.”
                “Pshaw!” cried Robert contemptuously; “he felt the blow most cruelly, but his
                    brain was as sound as yours or mine.”
                “Perhaps he will write to you from Liverpool,” said George's father-in-law. He
                    seemed anxious to smooth over any indignation that Robert might feel at his
                    friend's conduct.
                
                “He ought,” said Robert gravely, “for we've been good friends from the days when
                    we were together at Eton. It isn't kind of George Talboys to treat me like
                    this.”
                But even at the moment that he uttered the reproach a strange thrill of remorse
                    shot through his heart.
                “It isn't like him,” he said, “it isn't like George Talboys.”
                Little Georgey caught at the sound. “That's my name,” he said, “and my papa's
                    name—the big gentleman's name.”
                “Yes, little Georgey, and your papa came last night and kissed you in your sleep.
                    Do you remember?”
                “No,” said the boy, shaking his curly little head.
                “You must have been very fast asleep, little Georgey, not to see poor papa.”
                The child did not answer, but presently, fixing his eyes upon Robert's face, he
                    said abruptly,—
                “Where's the pretty lady?”
                “What pretty lady?”
                
                “The pretty lady that used to come a long while ago.”
                “He means his poor mamma,” said the old man.
                “No,” cried the boy resolutely, “not mamma. Mamma was always crying. I didn't
                    like mamma—”
                “Hush, little Georgey!”
                “But I didn't, and she didn't like me. She was always crying. I mean the pretty
                    lady; the lady that was dressed so fine, and that gave me my gold watch.”
                “He means the wife of my old captain—an excellent creature, who took a great
                    fancy to Georgey, and gave him some handsome presents.”
                “Where's my gold watch? Let me show the gentleman my gold watch,” cried
                    Georgey.
                “It's gone to be cleaned, Georgey,” answered his grandfather.
                “It's always going to be cleaned,” said the boy.
                “The watch is perfectly safe, I assure you, Mr. Audley,” murmured the old man,
                        apologetically; and taking out a
                    pawnbroker's duplicate, he handed it to Robert.
                It was made out in the name of Captain Mortimer: “Watch, set with diamonds,
                    £11.”
                “I'm often hard pressed for a few shillings, Mr. Audley,” said the old man. “My
                    son-in-law has been very liberal to me; but there are the others, Mr
                    Audley—and—and—I've not been treated well.” He wiped away some genuine tears as
                    he said this in a pitiful, crying voice. “Come, Georgey, it's time the brave
                    little man was in bed. Come along with grandpapa. Excuse me for a quarter of an
                    hour, Mr. Audley.”
                The boy went very willingly. At the door of the room the old man looked back at
                    his visitor, and said, in the same peevish voice, “This is a poor place for me
                    to pass my declining years in, Mr. Audley. I've made many sacrifices, and I make
                    them still, but I've not been treated well.”
                Left alone in the dusky little sitting-room, Robert Audley folded his arms, and
                    sat absently staring at the floor.
                George was gone, then; he might receive some
                    letter of explanation, perhaps, when he returned to London; but the chances were
                    that he would never see his old friend again.
                “And to think that I should care so much for the fellow!” he said, lifting his
                    eyebrows to the centre of his forehead.
                “The place smells of stale tobacco like a taproom,” he muttered presently; “there
                    can be no harm in my smoking a cigar here.”
                He took one from the case in his pocket; there was a spark of fire in the little
                    grate, and he looked about for something to light his cigar with.
                A twisted piece of paper lay half burned upon the hearthrug; he picked it up, and
                    unfolded it, in order to get a better pipe-light by folding it the other way of
                    the paper. As he did so, absently glancing at the penciled writing upon the
                    fragment of thin paper, a portion of a name caught his eye—a portion of the name
                    that was most in his thoughts. He took the scrap of paper to the window, and
                    examined it by the declining light.
                
                It was part of a telegraphic dispatch. The upper portion had been burnt away, but
                    the more important part, the greater part of the message itself, remained.
                 alboys came to last night, and left by the mail for London, on his way for
                    Liverpool, whence he was to sail for Sydney.
                The date and the name and address of the sender of the message had been burnt
                    with the heading. Robert Audley's face blanched to a deathly whiteness. He
                    carefully folded the scrap of paper, and placed it between the leaves of his
                    pocket-book.
                “My God!” he said, “what is the meaning of this? I shall go to Liverpool
                    to-night, and make inquiries there.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIII.
                TROUBLED DREAMS.
                ROBERT AUDLEY left Southampton by the mail, and let himself into his
                    chambers just as the dawn was creeping cold and grey into the solitary rooms,
                    and the canaries were beginning to rustle their feathers feebly in the early
                    morning.
                There were several letters in the box behind the door, but there was none from
                    George Talboys.
                The young barrister was worn out by a long day spent in hurrying from place to
                    place. The usual lazy monotony of his life had been broken as it had never been
                    broken before in eight-and-twenty tranquil, easy-going years. His mind was
                    beginning to grow confused upon the point of time. It seemed to him months since
                    he had lost sight of George Talboys. It was so difficult to believe that it was
                    less than forty-eight hours ago that the young
                    man had left him asleep under the willows by the trout stream.
                His eyes were painfully weary for want of sleep. He searched about the rooms for
                    some time, looking in all sorts of impossible places for a letter from George
                    Talboys, and then threw himself dressed upon his friend's bed, in the room with
                    the canaries and geraniums.
                “I shall wait for to-morrow morning's post,” he said, “and if that brings no
                    letter from George I shall start for Liverpool without a moment's delay.”
                He was thoroughly exhausted, and fell into a heavy sleep—a sleep which was
                    profound without being altogether refreshing, for he was tormented all the time
                    by disagreeable dreams—dreams which were painful, not from any horror in
                    themselves, but from a vague and wearying sense of their confusion and
                    absurdity.
                At one time he was pursuing strange people and entering strange houses in the
                    endeavour to unravel the mystery of the telegraphic dispatch; at another time he
                    was in the churchyard at Ventnor, gazing at
                    the headstone George had ordered for the grave of his dead wife. Once in the
                    long rambling mystery of these dreams he went to the grave, and found this
                    headstone gone, and on remonstrating with the stonemason, was told that the man
                    had a reason for removing the inscription, a reason that Robert would some day
                    learn.
                He started from his dreams to find that there was some one knocking at the outer
                    door of his chambers.
                It was a dreary wet morning, the rain beating against the windows, and the
                    canaries twittering dismally to each other—complaining, perhaps, of the bad
                    weather. Robert could not tell how long the person had been knocking. He had
                    heard the sound with his dreams, and when he woke he was only half conscious of
                    outer things.
                “It is that stupid Mrs. Maloney, I dare say,” he muttered. “She may knock again
                    for all I care. Why can't she use her duplicate key, instead of dragging a man
                    out of bed when he's half dead with fatigue?”
                
                The person, whoever it was, did knock again, and then desisted, apparently tired
                    out; but about a minute afterwards a key turned in the door.
                “She had her key with her all the time, then,” said Robert. “I'm very glad I
                    didn't get up.”
                The door between the sitting-room and bed-room was half open, and he could see
                    the laundress bustling about, dusting the furniture, and rearranging things that
                    had never been disarranged.
                “Is that you, Mrs. Maloney?” he asked.
                “Yes, Sir.”
                “Then why, in goodness' name, did you make that row at the door, when you had a
                    key with you all the time?”
                “A row at the door, Sir!”
                “Yes; that infernal knocking.”
                “Sure I never knocked, Misther Audley, but walked straight in with the key—”
                “Then who did knock? There's been some one kicking up a row at that door for a
                    quarter of an hour I should think; you must have met him going down-stairs.”
                “But I'm rather late this morning, Sir, for I've been in Mr. Martin's rooms first, and I've come straight from the floor
                    above.”
                “Then you didn't see anyone at the door, or on the stairs?”
                “Not a mortal soul, Sir.”
                “Was ever anything so provoking?” said Robert. “To think that I should have let
                    this person go away without ascertaining who he was, or what he wanted! How do I
                    know that it was not some one with a message or a letter from George
                    Talboys?”
                “Sure, if it was, Sir, he'll come again,” said Mrs. Maloney, soothingly.
                “Yes, of course, if it was anything of consequence, he'll come again,” muttered
                    Robert. The fact was, that from the moment of finding the telegraphic message at
                    Southampton all hope of hearing of George had faded out of his mind. He felt
                    that there was some mystery involved in the disappearance of his friend—some
                    treachery towards himself, or towards George. What if the young man's greedy old
                    father-in-law had tried to separate them on account of the monetary trust lodged in Robert Audley's hands? Or what if,
                    since even in these civilised days all kinds of unsuspected horrors are
                    constantly committed—what if the old man had decoyed George down to Southampton,
                    and made away with him in order to get possession of that £20,000, left in
                    Robert's custody for little Georgey's use?
                But neither of these suppositions explained the telegraphic message, and it was
                    the telegraphic message which had filled Robert's mind with a vague sense of
                    alarm. The postman brought no letter from George Talboys, and the person who had
                    knocked at the door of the chambers did not return between seven and nine
                    o'clock, so Robert Audley left Fig-tree Court once more in search of his friend.
                    This time he told the cabman to drive to the Euston Station, and in twenty
                    minutes he was on the platform, making inquiries about the trains.
                The Liverpool express had started half an hour before he reached the station, and
                    he had to wait an hour and a quarter for a slow train to take him to his
                    destination.
                
                Robert Audley chafed cruelly at this delay. Half a dozen vessels might sail for
                    Australia while he roamed up and down the long platform, tumbling over trucks
                    and porters, and swearing at his ill-luck.
                He bought the Times newspaper, and looked instinctively at the
                    second column, with a morbid interest in the advertisements of people
                    missing—sons, brothers, and husbands who had left their homes, never to return
                    or to be heard of more.
                There was one advertisement of a young man found drowned somewhere on the Lambeth
                    shore.
                What if that should have been George's fate? No; the telegraphic message involved
                    his father-in-law in the fact of his disappearance, and every speculation about
                    him must start from that one point.
                It was eight o'clock in the evening when Robert got into Liverpool, too late for
                    anything except to make inquiries as to what vessels had sailed within the last
                    two days for the antipodes.
                An emigrant ship had sailed at four o'clock
                    that afternoon—the Victoria Regia, bound for Melbourne.
                The result of his inquiries amounted to this—if he wanted to find out who had
                    sailed in the Victoria Regia, he must wait till the next morning, and apply for
                    information of that vessel.
                Robert Audley was at the office at nine o'clock the next morning, and was the
                    first person after the clerks who entered it.
                He met with every civility from the clerk to whom he applied. The young man
                    referred to his books, and running his pen down the list of passengers who had
                    sailed in the Victoria Regia, told Robert that there was no one among them of
                    the name of Talboys. He pushed his inquiries further. Had any of the pasengers
                    entered their names within a short time of the vessel's sailing?
                One of the other clerks looked up from his desk as Robert asked this question.
                    Yes, he said, he remembered a young man's coming into the office at half-past
                    three o'clock in the afternoon, and paying his passage money. His name was the
                    last on the list—Thomas Brown.
                
                Robert Audley shrugged his shoulders. There could have been no possible reason
                    for George's taking a feigned name. He asked the clerk who had last spoken if he
                    could remember the appearance of this Mr. Thomas Brown.
                No, the office was crowded at the time; people were running in and out, and he
                    had not taken any particular notice of this last passenger.
                Robert thanked them for their civility, and wished them good morning. As he was
                    leaving the office one of the young men called after him.
                “Oh, by the bye, Sir,” he said, “I remember one thing about this Mr. Thomas
                    Brown—his arm was in a sling.”
                There was nothing more for Robert Audley to do but to return to town. He
                    re-entered his chambers at six o'clock that evening, thoroughly worn out once
                    more with his useless search.
                Mrs. Maloney brought him his dinner and a pint of wine from a tavern in the
                    Strand. The evening was raw and chilly, and the laundress had lighted a good
                    fire in the sitting-room grate.
                After eating about half a mutton chop, Robert
                    sat with his wine untasted upon the table before him, smoking cigars and staring
                    into the blaze.
                “George Talboys never sailed for Australia,” he said, after long and painful
                    reflection. “If he is alive he is still in England, and if he is dead his body
                    is hidden in some corner of England.”
                He sat for hours smoking and thinking—troubled and gloomy thoughts, leaving a
                    dark shadow upon his moody face, which neither the brilliant light of the gas
                    nor the red blaze of the fire could dispel.
                Very late in the evening he rose from his chair, pushed away the table, wheeled
                    his desk over to the fire-place, took out a sheet of foolscap, and dipped a pen
                    in the ink.
                But after doing this he paused, leaned his forehead upon his hand, and once more
                    relapsed into thought.
                “I shall draw up a record of all that has occurred between our going down to
                    Essex and to-night, beginning at the very beinning.”
                He drew up this record in short detached sentences, which he numbered as he
                    wrote.
                
                It ran thus: 
                        “JOURNAL OF FACTS CONNECTED WITH THE DISSAPEARANCE OF GEORGE TALBOYS,
                            INCLUSIVE OF FACTS WHICH HAVE NO APPARENT RELATION TO THAT
                            CIRCUMSTANCE.”
                    
                In spite of the troubled state of his mind he was rather inclined to be proud of
                    the official appearance of this heading. He sat for some time looking at it with
                    affection, and with the feather of his pen in his mouth. “Upon my word,” he
                    said, “I begin to think that I ought to have pursued my profession, instead of
                    dawdling my life away as I have done.”
                He smoked half a cigar before he had got his thoughts in proper train, and then
                    began to write:—
                “1. I write to Alicia, proposing to take George down to the Court.
                “2. Alicia writes, objecting to the visit on the part of Lady Audley.
                “3. We go to Essex in spite of this objection. I see my lady. My lady refuses to
                    be introduced to George that particular evening on the score of fatigue.
                
                “4. Sir Michael invites George and me to dinner for the following evening.
                “5. My lady receives a telegraphic dispatch the next morning which summons her to
                    London.
                “6. Alicia shows me a letter from my lady, in which she requests to be told when
                    I and my friend, Mr. Talboys, mean to leave Essex. To this letter is subjoined a
                    postscript reiterating the above request.
                “7. We call at the Court, and ask to see the house. My lady's apartments are
                    locked.
                “8. We get at the aforesaid apartments by means of a secret passage, the
                    existence of which is unknown to my lady. In one of the rooms we find her
                    portrait.
                “9. George is frightened at the storm. His conduct is exceedingly strange for the
                    rest of the evening.
                “10. George quite himself again the following morning. I propose leaving Audley
                    Court immediately; he prefers remaining till the evening.
                
                “11. We go out fishing. George leaves me to go to the Court.
                “12. The last positive information I can obtain of him in Essex is at the Court,
                    where the servant says he thinks Mr. Talboys told him he would go and look for
                    my lady in the grounds.
                “13. I receive information about him at the station which may, or may not, be
                    correct.
                “14. I hear of him positively once more at Southampton, where, according to his
                    father-in-law, he had been for an hour on the previous night.
                “15. The telegraphic message.”
                When Robert Audley had completed this brief record, which he drew up with great
                    deliberation, and with frequent pauses for reflection, alterations, and
                    erasures, he sat for a long time contemplating the written page.
                At last he read it carefully over, stopping at some of the numbered paragrapbs,
                    and marking several of them with a pencilled cross; then he folded the sheet of
                    foolscap, went over to a cabinet on the opposite side of the room, unlocked it,
                    and placed the paper in that very pigeon-hole into which he had thrust Alicia's letter—the pigeon-hole
                    marked Important.
                Having done this, he returned to his easy chair by the fire, pushed away his
                    desk, and lighted a cigar. “It's as dark as midnight from first to last,” he
                    said; “and the clue to the mystery must be found either at Southampton or in
                    Essex. Be it how it may, my mind is made up. I shall first go to Audley Court,
                    and look for George Talboys in a narrow radius.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIV.
                PHŒBE'S SUITOR.
                “MR. GEORGE TALBOYS.—Any person who has met this gentleman since the 7th
                    inst., or who possesses any information respecting him subsequent to that date,
                    will be liberally rewarded on communicating with A.Z., 14, Chancery Lane.”
                Sir Michael Audley read the above advertisement in the second column of the
                        Times, as he sat at breakfast with my lady and Alicia two or
                    three days after Robert's return to town.
                “Robert's friend has not yet been heard of, then,” said the baronet, after
                    reading the advertisement to his wife and daughter.
                “As for that,” replied my lady, “I cannot help wondering who can be silly enough
                    to advertise for him. The young man was evidently of a restless, roving
                    disposition—a sort of Bamfylde Moore Carew of
                    modern life, whom no attraction could ever keep in one spot.”
                Though the advertisement appeared three successive times, the party at the Court
                    attached very little importance to Mr. Talboys' disappearance; and after this
                    one occasion his name was never again mentioned by either Sir Michael, my lady,
                    or Alicia.
                Alicia Audley and her pretty stepmother were by no means any better friends after
                    that quiet evening on which the young barrister had dined at the Court.
                “She is a vain, frivolous, heartless little coquette,” said Alicia, addressing
                    herself to her Newfoundland dog, Cæsar, who was the sole recipient of the young
                    lady's confidences; “she is a practiced and consummate flirt, Cæsar; and not
                    contented with setting her yellow ringlets and her silly giggle at half the men
                    in Essex, she must needs make that stupid cousin of mine dance attendance upon
                    her. I haven't common patience with her.”
                In proof of which last assertion Miss Alicia
                    Audley treated her stepmother with such very palpable impertinence that Sir
                    Michael felt himself called upon to remonstrate with his only daughter.
                “The poor little woman is very sensitive, you know, Alicia,” the baronet said
                    gravely, “and she feels your conduct most acutely.”
                “I don't believe it a bit, papa,” answered Alicia stoutly. “You think her
                    sensitive because she has soft little white hands, and big blue eyes with long
                    lashes, and all manner of affected, fantastical ways, which you stupid men call
                    fascinating. Sensitive! Why, I've seen her do cruel things with those slender
                    white fingers, and laugh at the pain she inflicted. I'm very sorry, papa,” she
                    added, softened a little by her father's look of distress; “though she has come
                    between us, and robbed poor Alicia of the love of that dear, generous heart, I
                    wish I could like her for your sake; but I cant, I can't, and no more can Cæsar.
                    She came up to him once with her red lips apart, and her little white teeth
                    glistening between them, and stroked his great head with her soft hand; but if I had not had hold of his collar, he
                    would have flown at her throat and strangled her. She may bewitch every man in
                    Essex, but she'd never make friends with my dog.”
                “Your dog shall be shot,” answered Sir Michael angrily, “if his vicious temper
                    ever endangers Lucy.”
                The Newfoundland rolled his eyes slowly round in the direction of the speaker, as
                    if he understood every word that had been said. Lady Audley happened to enter
                    the room at this very moment, and the animal cowered down by the side of his
                    mistress with a suppressed growl. There was something in the manner of the dog
                    which was, if anything, more indicative of terror than of fury, incredible as it
                    appears that Cæsar should be frightened by so fragile a creature as Lucy
                    Audley.
                Amiable as was my lady's nature, she could not live long at the Court without
                    discovering Alicia's dislike to her. She never alluded to it but once; then,
                    shrugging her graceful white shoulders, she said with a sigh:
                
                “It seems very hard that you cannot love me, Alicia, for I have never been used
                    to make enemies; but since it seems that it must be so, I cannot help it. If we
                    cannot be friends, let us at least be neutral. You won't try to injure me?”
                “Injure you!” exclaimed Alicia; “how should I injure you?”
                “You'll not try to deprive me of your father's affection?”
                “I may not be as amiable as you are, my lady, and I may not have the same sweet
                    smiles and pretty words for every stranger I meet, but I am not capable of a
                    contemptible meanness; and even if I were, I think you are so secure of my
                    father's love, that nothing but your own act will ever deprive you of it.”
                “What a severe creature you are, Alicia!” said my lady, making a little grimace.
                    “I suppose you mean to infer by all that, that I'm deceitful. Why, I can't help
                    smiling at people, and speaking prettily to them. I know I'm no
                        better than the rest of the world, but I can't help it if I'm
                        pleasanter. It's constitutional.”
                
                Alicia having thus entirely shut the door upon all intimacy between Lady Audley
                    and herself, and Sir Michael being chiefly occupied in agricultural pursuits and
                    manly sports, which kept him away from home, it was, perhaps, only natural that
                    my lady, being of an eminently social disposition, should find herself thrown a
                    good deal upon her white-eyelashed maid for society.
                Phœbe Marks was exactly the sort of a girl who is generally promoted from the
                    post of lady's-maid to that of companion. She had just sufficient education to
                    enable her to understand her mistress when Lucy chose to allow herself to run
                    riot in a species of intellectual tarantella, in which her tongue went mad to
                    the sound of its own rattle, as the Spanish dancer at the noise of his
                    castanets. Phœbe knew enough of the French language to be able to dip into the
                    yellow-paper-covered novels which my lady ordered from the Burlington Arcade,
                    and to discourse with her mistress upon the questionable subjects of those
                    romances. The likeness which the lady's-maid bore to Lucy Audley was, perhaps, a
                    point of sympathy between the two women. It
                    was not to be called a striking likeness; a stranger might have seen them both
                    together, and yet have failed to remark it. But there were certain dim and
                    shadowy lights in which, meeting Phœbe Marks gliding softly through the dark oak
                    passages of the Court, or under the shrouded avenues in the garden, you might
                    have easily mistaken her for my lady.
                Sharp October winds were sweeping the leaves from the limes in the long avenue,
                    and driving them in withered heaps with a ghostly rustling noise along the dry
                    gravel walks. The old well must have been half choked up with the leaves that
                    drifted about it, and whirled in eddying circles into its black, broken mouth.
                    On the still bosom of the fish-pond the same withered leaves slowly rotted away,
                    mixing themselves with the tangled weeds that discoloured the surface of the
                    water. All the gardeners Sir Michael could employ could not keep the impress of
                    autumn's destroying hand from the grounds about the Court.
                
                “How I hate this desolate month!” my lady said, as she walked about the garden,
                    shivering beneath her sable mantle. “Everything dropping to ruin and decay, and
                    the cold flicker of the sun lighting up the ugliness of the earth, as the glare
                    of gas-lamps lights the wrinkles of an old woman. Shall I ever grow old, Phœbe?
                    Will my hair ever drop off as the leaves are falling from those trees, and leave
                    me wan and bare like them? What is to become of me when I grow old?”
                She shivered at the thought of this more than she had done at the cold wintry
                    breeze, and muffling herself closely in her fur, walked so fast, that her maid
                    had some difficulty in keeping up with her.
                “Do you remember, Phœbe,” she said presently, relaxing her pace, “do you remember
                    that French story we read—the story of a beautiful woman who committed some
                    crime—I forget what—in the zenith of her power and loveliness, when all Paris
                    drank to her every night, and when the people ran away from the carriage of the
                    king to flock about hers, and get a peep at
                    her face? Do you remember how she kept the secret of what she had done for
                    nearly half a century, spending her old age in her family château, beloved and
                    honoured by all the province, as an uncanonised saint and benefactress to the
                    poor; and how, when her hair was white, and her eyes almost blind with age, the
                    secret was revealed through one of those strange accidents by which such secrets
                    always are revealed in romances, and she was tried, found guilty, and condemned
                    to be burned alive? The king who had worn her colours was dead and gone; the
                    court of which she had been the star had passed away; powerful functionaries and
                    great magistrates, who might perhaps have helped her, were mouldering in the
                    graves; brave young cavaliers, who would have died for her, had fallen upon
                    distant battle-fields; she had lived to see the age to which she had belonged
                    fade like a dream; and she went to the stake, followed only by a few ignorant
                    country people, who forgot all her bounties, and hooted at her for a wicked
                    sorceress.”
                “I don't care for such dismal stories, my lady,” said Phœbe Marks with a shudder. “One has no need to read books to give one
                    the horrors in this dull place.”
                Lady Audley shrugged her shoulders and laughed at her maid's candour.
                “It is a dull place, Phœbe,” she said, “though it doesn't do to say so to my dear
                    old husband. Though I am the wife of one of the most influential men in the
                    county, I don't know that I wasn't nearly as well off at Mr. Dawson's; and yet
                    it's something to wear sables that cost sixty guineas, and have a thousand
                    pounds spent on the decoration of one's apartments.”
                Treated as a companion by her mistress, in the receipt of the most liberal wages,
                    and with perquisites such as perhaps no lady's-maid ever had before, it was
                    strange that Phœbe Marks should wish to leave her situation; but it was not the
                    less a fact that she was anxious to exchange all the advantages of Audley Court
                    for the very unpromising prospect which awaited her as the wife of her cousin
                    Luke.
                The young man had contrived in some manner to
                    associate himself with the improved fortunes of his sweetheart. He had never
                    allowed Phœbe any peace till she obtained for him, by the aid of my lady's
                    interference, a situation as under-groom at the Court.
                He never rode out with either Alicia or Sir Michael; but on one of the few
                    occasions upon which my lady mounted the pretty little grey thoroughbred
                    reserved for her use, he contrived to attend her in her ride. He saw enough, in
                    the very first half hour they were out, to discover that, graceful as Lucy
                    Audley might look in her long blue cloth habit, she was a timid horsewoman, and
                    utterly unable to manage the animal she rode.
                Lady Audley remonstrated with her maid upon her folly in wishing to marry the
                    uncouth groom.
                The two women were seated together over the fire in my lady's dressing-room, the
                    grey sky closing in upon the October afternoon, and the black tracery of ivy
                    darkening the casement windows.
                        
                        ”
                    
                
                “You surely are not in love with the awkward, ugly creature, are you, Phœbe?”
                    asked my lady sharply.
                The girl was sitting on a low stool at her mistress's feet. She did not answer my
                    lady's question immediately, but sat for some time looking vacantly into the red
                    abyss in the hollow fire.
                Presently she said, rather as if she had been thinking aloud than answering
                    Lucy's question—
                “I don't think I can love him. We have been together from children, and I
                    promised, when I was little better than fifteen, that I'd be his wife. I daren't
                    break that promise now. There have been times when I've made up the very
                    sentence I meant to say to him, telling him that I couldn't keep my faith with
                    him; but the words have died upon my lips, and I've sat looking at him, with a
                    choking sensation in my throat that wouldn't let me speak. I daren't refuse to
                    marry him. I've often watched and watched him, as he has sat slicing away at a
                    hedge-stake with his great clasp-knife, till I have thought that it is just such
                    men as he who have decoyed their sweethearts into lonely places, and murdered them for being false to
                    their word. When he was a boy he was always violent and revengeful. I saw him
                    once take up that very knife in a quarrel with his mother. I tell you, my lady,
                    I must marry him.”
                “You silly girl, you shall do nothing of the kind!” answered Lucy. “You think
                    he'll murder you, do you? Do you think, then, if murder is in him, you would be
                    any safer as his wife? If you thwarted him, or made him jealous; if he wanted to
                    marry another woman, or to get hold of some poor, pitiful bit of money of yours,
                    couldn't he murder you then? I tell you you shan't marry him, Phœbe. In the
                    first place, I hate the man; and, in the next place, I can't afford to part with
                    you. We'll give him a few pounds and send him about his business.”
                Phœbe Marks caught my lady's hands in hers, and clasped them convulsively.
                “My lady—my good, kind mistress!” she cried vehemently, “don't try to thwart me
                    in this—don't ask me to thwart him. I tell you I must marry him. You don't know
                    what he is. It will be my ruin, and the ruin
                    of others, if I break my word. I must marry him!”
                “Very well, then, Phœbe,” answered her mistress, “I can't oppose you. There must
                    be some secret at the bottom of all this.”
                “There is, my lady,” said the girl, with her face turned away from Lucy.
                “I shall be very sorry to lose you; but I have promised to stand your friend in
                    all things. What does your cousin mean to do for a living when you are
                    maried?”
                “He would like to take a public-house.”
                “Then he shall take a public-house, and the sooner he drinks himself to death the
                    better. Sir Michael dines at a bachelor's party at Major Margrave's this
                    evening, and my step-daughter is away with her friends at the Grange. You can
                    bring your cousin into the drawing-room after dinner, and I'll tell him what I
                    mean to do for him.”
                “You are very good, my lady,” Phœbe answered with a sigh.
                Lady Audley sat in the glow of firelight and wax candles in the luxurious
                    drawing-room; the amber damask cushions of the
                    sofa contrasting with her dark violet velvet dress, and her rippling hair
                    falling about her neck in a golden haze. Everywhere around her were the
                    evidences of wealth and splendour; while in strange contrast to all this, and to
                    her own beauty, the awkward groom stood rubbing his bullet head as my lady
                    explained to him what she meant to do for her confidential maid. Lucy's promises
                    were very liberal, and she had expected that, uncouth as the man was, he would
                    in his own rough manner have expressed his gratitude.
                To her surprise he stood staring at the floor without uttering a word in answer
                    to her offer. Phœbe was standing close to his elbow, and seemed distressed at
                    the man's rudeness.
                “Tell my lady how thankful you are, Luke,” she said.
                “But I'm not so over and above thankful,” answered her lover savagely. “Fifty
                    pound ain't much to start a public. You'll make it a hundred, my lady.”
                “I shall do nothing of the kind,” said Lady
                    Audley, her clear blue eyes flashing with indignation, “and I wonder at your
                    impertinence in asking it.”
                “Oh yes, you will though,” answered Luke, with quiet insolence, that had a hidden
                    meaning. “You'll make it a hundred, my lady.”
                Lady Audley rose from her seat, looked the man steadfastly in the face till his
                    determined gaze sunk under hers; then walking straight up to her maid, she said
                    in a high, piercing voice, peculiar to her in moments of intense agitation,
                    “Phœbe Marks, you have told this man!”
                The girl fell on her knees at my lady's feet.
                “Oh, forgive me, forgive me!” she cried. “He forced it from me, or I would never,
                    never have told!” 
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XV.
                ON THE WATCH.
                UPON a lowering morning late in November, with the yellow fog low upon
                    the flat meadows, and the blinded cattle groping their way through the dim
                    obscurity, and blundering stupidly against black and leafless hedges, or
                    stumbling into ditches, undistinguishable in the hazy atmosphere; with the
                    village church looming brown and dingy through the uncertain light; with every
                    winding path and cottage door, every gable-end and grey old chimney, every
                    village child and straggling cur, seeming strange and weird of aspect in the
                    semi-darkness, Phœbe Marks and her cousin Luke made their way through the
                    churchyard of Audley, and presented themselves before a shivering curate, whose
                    surplice hung in damp folds, soddened by the morning mist, and whose temper was
                    not improved by his having waited five minutes
                    for the bride and bridegroom.
                Luke Marks, dressed in his ill-fitting Sunday clothes, looked by no means
                    handsomer than in his every-day apparel; but Phœbe, arrayed in a rustling silk
                    of delicate grey, that had been worn about half a dozen times by her mistress,
                    looked, as the few spectators of the ceremony remarked, quite the lady.
                A very dim and shadowy lady; vague of outline, and faint of colouring; with eyes,
                    hair, complexion, and dress all melting into such pale and uncertain shades
                    that, in the obscure light of the foggy November morning, a superstitious
                    stranger might have mistaken the bride for the ghost of some other bride, dead
                    and buried in the vaults below the church.
                Mr. Luke Marks, the hero of the occasion, thought very little of all this. He had
                    secured the wife of his choice, and the object of his life-long ambition—a
                    public house. My lady had provided the seventy-five pounds necessary for the
                    purchase of the good-will and fixtures, with
                    the stock of ales and spirits, of a small inn in the centre of a lonely little
                    village, perched on the summit of a hill, and called Mount Stanning. It was not
                    a very pretty house to look at; it had something of a tumble-down,
                    weather-beaten appearance, standing as it did upon high ground, sheltered only
                    by four or five bare and overgrown poplars, that had shot up too rapidly for
                    their strength, and had a blighted forlorn look in consequence. The wind had had
                    its own way with the Castle Inn, and had sometimes made cruel use of its power.
                    It was the wind that battered and bent the low, thatched roofs of out-houses and
                    stables, till they hung over and lurched forward, as a slouched hat hangs over
                    the low forehead of some village ruffian; it was the wind that shook and rattled
                    the wooden shutters before the narrow casements, till they hung broken and
                    dilapidated upon their rusty hinges; it was the wind that overthrew the
                    pigeon-house, and broke the vane that had been imprudently set up to tell the
                    movements of its mightiness; it was the wind that made light of any little bit of wooden trellis-work, or creeping
                    plant, or tiny balcony, or any modest decoration whatsoever, and tore and
                    scattered it in its scornful fury; it was the wind that left mossy secretions on
                    the discolored surface of the plaster walls; it was the wind, in short, that
                    shattered, and ruined, and rent, and trampled upon the tottering pile of
                    buildings, and then flew shrieking off, to riot and glory in its destroying
                    strength. The dispirited proprietor grew tired of his long struggle with this
                    mighty enemy; so the wind was left to work its own will, and the Castle Inn fell
                    slowly to decay. But for all that it suffered without, it was not the less
                    prosperous within doors. Sturdy drovers stopped to drink at the little bar;
                    well-to-do farmers spent their evenings and talked politics in the low,
                    wainscoted parlour, while their horses munched some suspicious mixture of moldy
                    hay and tolerable beans in the tumble-down stables. Sometimes even the members
                    of the Audley hunt stopped to drink and bait their horses at the Castle Inn;
                    while, on one grand and never-to-be-forgotten
                    occasion, a dinner had been ordered by the master of the hounds for some thirty
                    gentlemen, and the proprietor driven nearly mad by the importance of the
                    demand.
                So Luke Marks, who was by no means troubled with an eye for the beautiful,
                    thought himself very fortunate in becoming landlord of the Castle Inn, Mount
                    Stanning.
                A chaise-cart was waiting in the fog to convey the bride and bridegroom to their
                    new home; and a few of the simple villagers, who had known Phœbe from a child,
                    were lingering round the churchyard gate to bid her good-by. Her pale eyes were
                    still paler from the tears she had shed, and the red rims which surrounded them.
                    The bridegroom was annoyed at this exhibition of emotion.
                “What are you blubbering for, lass?” he said fiercely. “If you didn't want to
                    marry me, you should have told me so. I ain't going to murder you, am I?”
                The lady's-maid shivered as he spoke to her, and dragged her little silk mantle
                    closely round her.
                
                “You're cold in all this here finery,” said Luke, staring at her costly dress
                    with no expression of good-will. “Why can't women dress according to their
                    station? You won't have no silk gowns out of my pocket, I can tell you.”
                He lifted the shivering girl into the chaise, wrapped a rough great-coat about
                    her, and drove off through the yellow fog, followed by a feeble cheer from two
                    or three urchins clustered round the gate.
                A new maid was brought from London to replace Phœbe Marks about the person of my
                    lady—a very showy damsel, who wore a black satin gown, and rose-coloured ribbons
                    in her cap, and complained bitterly of the dulness of Audley Court.
                But Christmas brought visitors to the rambling old mansion. A country squire and
                    his fat wife occupied the tapestried chamber; merry girls scampered up and down
                    the long passages, and young men stared out of the latticed windows watching for
                    southerly winds and cloudy skies; there was not an empty stall in the roomy
                        old stables; an extempore forge had been
                    set up in the yard for the shoeing of hunters; yelping dogs made the place noisy
                    with their perpetual clamour; strange servants horded together on the garret
                    story; and every little casement hidden away under some pointed gable, and every
                    dormer window in the quaint old roof, glimmered upon the winter's night with its
                    separate taper, till, coming suddenly upon Audley Court, the benighted stranger,
                    misled by the light and noise, and bustle of the place, might have easily fallen
                    into young Marlowe's error, and have mistaken the hospitable mansion for a good,
                    old-fashioned inn, such as have faded from this earth since the last mail coach
                    and prancing tits took their last melancholy journey to the knacker's yard.
                Amongst other visitors Mr. Robert Audley came down to Essex for the hunting
                    season, with half-a-dozen French novels, a case of cigars, and three pounds of
                    Turkish tobacco in his portmanteau.
                The honest young country squires, who talked all breakfast time of Flying
                    Dutchman fillies and Voltigeur colts; of
                    glorious runs of seven hours' hard riding over three counties, and a midnight
                    homeward ride of thirty miles upon their covert hacks; and who ran away from the
                    well-spread table with their mouths full of cold sirloin to look at that off
                    pastern, or that sprained forearm, or the colt that had just come back from the
                    veterinary surgeon's, set down Mr. Robert Audley, dawdling over a slice of bread
                    and marmalade, as a person utterly unworthy of any remark whatsoever.
                The young barrister had brought a couple of dogs with him; and the country
                    gentleman who gave fifty pounds for a pointer, and travelled a couple of hundred
                    miles to look at a leash of setters before he struck a bargain, laughed aloud at
                    the two miserable curs; one of which had followed Robert Audley through Chancery
                    Lane and half the length of Holborn; while his companion had been taken by the
                    barrister vi et armis from a costermonger who
                    was ill-using him. And as Robert furthermore insisted on having these two
                    deplorable animals under his easy-chair in the
                    drawing-room, much to the annoyance of my lady, who, as we know, hated all dogs,
                    the visitors at Audley Court looked upon the baronet's nephew as an inoffensive
                    species of maniac.
                During other visits to the Court, Robert Audley had made a feeble show of joining
                    in the sports of the merry assembly. He had jogged across half a dozen ploughed
                    fields on a quiet grey pony of Sir Michael's, and drawing up breathless and
                    panting at the door of some farm-house, had expressed his intention of following
                    the hounds no further that morning. He had even gone so far as to
                    put on, with great labour, a pair of skates, with a view to taking a turn on the
                    frozen surface of the fish-pond, and had fallen ignominously at the first
                    attempt, lying placidly extended on the flat of his back until such time as the
                    bystanders should think fit to pick him up. He had occupied the back seat in a
                    dog-cart during a pleasant morning drive, vehemently protesting against being
                    taken up hill, and requiring the vehicle to be stopped every ten minutes for the
                    re-adjustment of the cushions. But this year
                    he showed no inclination for any of these outdoor amusements. He spent his time
                    entirely in lounging in the drawing-room, and making himself agreeable, after
                    his own lazy fashion, to my lady and Alicia.
                Lady Audley received her nephew's attentions in that graceful, half-childish
                    fashion which her admirers found so charming; but Alicia was indignant at the
                    change in her cousin's conduct.
                “You were always a poor, spiritless fellow, Bob,” said the young lady,
                    contemptuously, as she bounced into the drawingroom, in her riding habit, after
                    a hunting breakfast, from which Robert had absented himself, preferring a cup of
                    tea in my lady's boudoir; “but this year I don't know what has come to you. You
                    are good for nothing but to hold a skein of silk or read Tennyson to Lady
                    Audley.”
                “My dear, hasty, impetuous Alicia, don't be violent,” said the young man
                    imploringly. “A conclusion isn't a five-barred gate; and you needn't give your
                    judgment its head, as you give your mare,
                    Atalanta, hers, when you're flying across country at the heels of an unfortunate
                    fox. Lady Audley interests me, and my uncle's county friends do not. Is that a
                    sufficient answer, Alicia?”
                Miss Audley gave her head a little scornful toss.
                “It's as good an answer as I shall ever get from you, Bob,” she said impatiently;
                    “but pray amuse yourself in your own way; loll in an easy-chair all day, with
                    those two absurd dogs asleep on your knees; spoil my lady's window-curtains with
                    your cigars; and annoy everybody in the house with your stupid, inanimate
                    countenance.”
                Mr. Robert Audley opened his handsome grey eyes to their widest extent at this
                    tirade, and looked helplessly at Miss Alicia.
                The young lady was walking up and down the room, slashing the skirt of her habit
                    with her riding-whip. Her eyes sparkled with an angry flash, and a crimson glow
                    burned under her clear brown skin. The young barrister knew very well by these diagnostics, that his cousin was in a
                    passion.
                “Yes,” she repeated, “your stupid, inanimate countenance. Do you know, Robert
                    Audley, that with all your mock amiability, you are brimful of conceit and
                    superciliousness. You look down upon our amusements; you lift up your eyebrows,
                    and shrug your shoulders, and throw yourself back in your chair, and wash your
                    hands of us and our pleasures. You are a selfish, cold-hearted Sybarite—”
                “Alicia! Good—gracious—me!”
                The morning paper dropped out of his hands, and he sat feebly staring at his
                    assailant.
                “Yes, selfish, Robert Audley! You take home half-starved dogs,
                    because you like half-starved dogs. You stoop down and pat the head of every
                    good-for-nothing cur in the village street, because you like good-for-nothing
                    curs. You notice little childdren, and give them halfpence, because it pleases
                    you to do so. But you lift your eyebrows a quarter of a yard when poor Sir Harry
                    Towers tells a stupid story, and stare the poor fellow out of countenance with your lazy insolence. As to your
                    amiability, you would let a man hit you, and say ‘Thank you’ for the blow,
                    rather than take the trouble to hit him again; but you wouldn't go half a mile
                    out of your way to serve your dearest friend. Sir Harry is worth twenty of you,
                    though he did write to ask if my ma-a-i-r, Atalanta, had recovered
                    from the sprain. He can't spell, or lift his eyebrows to the roots of his hair;
                    but he would go through fire and water for the girl he loves; while
                        you—”
                At this very point, when Robert was most prepared to encounter his cousin's
                    violence, and when Miss Alicia seemed about to make her strongest attack, the
                    young lady broke down altogether and burst into tears.
                Robert sprang from his easy-chair, upsetting his dogs on the carpet.
                “Alicia, my darling, what is it?”
                “It's—it's—it's the feather of my hat that got into my eyes,” sobbed his cousin;
                    and before Robert could investigate the truth of this assertion Alicia had
                    darted out of the room.
                
                Mr. Audley was preparing to follow her, when he heard her voice in the court-yard
                    below, amidst the trampling of horses and the clamour of visitors, dogs, and
                    grooms. Sir Harry Towers, the most aristocratic young sportsman in the
                    neighbourhood, had just taken her little foot in his hand as she sprang into her
                    saddle.
                “Good Heavens!” exclaimed Robert, as he watched the merry party of equestrians
                    until they disappeared under the archway. “What does all this mean? How
                    charmingly she sits her horse! What a pretty figure, too, and a fine, candid,
                    brown, rosy face; but to fly at a fellow like that, without the least
                    provocation! That's the consequence of letting a girl follow the hounds. She
                    learns to look at everything in life as she does at six feet of timber or a sunk
                    fence; she goes through the world as she goes across country—straight ahead, and
                    over everything. Such a nice girl as she might have been, too, if she'd been
                    brought up in Fig-tree Court! If ever I marry, and have daughters (which remote
                    contingency may Heaven forefend!), they shall
                    be educated in Paper Buildings, take their sole exercise in the Temple Gardens,
                    and they shall never go beyond the gates till they are marriageable, when I will
                    take them straight across Fleet street to St. Dunstan's Church, and deliver them
                    into the hands of their husbands.”
                With such reflections as these did Mr. Robert Audley beguile the time until my
                    lady re-entered the drawing-room, fresh and radiant in her elegant morning
                    costume, her yellow curls glistening with the perfumed waters in which she had
                    bathed, and her velvet-covered sketch-book in her arms. She planted a little
                    easel upon a table by the window, seated herself before it, and began to mix the
                    colours upon her palette, Robert watching her out of his half-closed eyes.
                “You are sure my cigar does not annoy you, Lady Audley?”
                “Oh no, indeed; I am quite used to the smell of tobacco. Mr. Dawson, the surgeon,
                    smoked all the evening, when I lived in his house.”
                
                “Dawson is a good fellow, isn't he?” Robert asked carelessly.
                My lady burst into her pretty gushing laugh.
                “The dearest of good creatures,” she said. “He paid me five-and-twenty pounds a
                    year—only fancy—that made six pounds five a quarter. How well I remember
                    receiving the money—six dingy old sovereigns, and a little heap of untidy, dirty
                    silver, that came straight from the till in the surgery! And then how glad I was
                    to get it; while now—I can't help laughing while I think of
                    it—these colours I am using cost a guinea each at Winsor & Newton's—the
                    carmine and ultramarine thirty shillings. I gave Mrs. Dawson one of my silk
                    dresses the other day, and the poor thing kissed me, and the surgeon carried the
                    bundle home under his cloak.”
                My lady laughed long and joyously at the thought. Her colours were mixed; she was
                    copying a water-coloured sketch of an impossibly beautiful Italian peasant, in
                    an impossibly Turneresque atmosphere. The
                    sketch was nearly finished, and she had only to put in some critical little
                    touches with the most delicate of her sable pencils. She prepared herself
                    daintily for the work, looking sideways at the painting.
                All this time Mr. Robert Audley's eyes were fixed intently on her pretty
                    face.
                “It is a change,” he said, after so long a pause that my lady might
                    have forgotten what she had been talking of; “it is a change! Some
                    women would do a great deal to accomplish such a change as that.”
                Lady Audley's clear blue eyes dilated as she fixed them suddenly on the young
                    barrister. The winter sunlight, gleaming full upon her face from a side window,
                    lit up the azure of those beautiful eyes, till their colour seemed to flicker
                    and tremble betwixt blue and green, as the opal tints of the sea change upon a
                    summer's day. The small brush fell from her hand, and blotted out the peasant's
                    face under a widening circle of crimson lake.
                
                Robert Audley was tenderly coaxing the crumbled leaf of his cigar with cautious
                    fingers.
                “My friend at the corner of Chancery Lane has not given me such good Manillas as
                    usual,” he murmured. “If ever you smoke, my dear aunt (and I am told that many
                    women take a quiet weed under the rose), be very careful how you choose your
                    cigars.”
                My lady drew a long breath, picked up her brush, and laughed aloud at Robert's
                    advice.
                “What an eccentric creature you are, Mr. Audley! Do you know that you sometimes
                    puzzle me—”
                “Not more than you puzzle me, my dear aunt.”
                My lady put away her colours and sketch book, and seating herself in the deep
                    recess of another window at a considerable distance from Robert Audley, settled
                    herself to a large piece of Berlin-wool work—a piece of embroidery which the
                    Penelopes of ten or twelve years ago were very fond of exercising their
                    ingenuity upon—the Olden Time at Bolton Abbey.
                
                Seated in the embrasure of this window, my lady was separated from Robert Audley
                    by the whole length of the room, and the young man could only catch an
                    occasional glimpse of her fair face, surrounded by its bright aureole of hazy
                    golden hair.
                Robert Audley had been a week at the Court, but as yet neither he nor my lady had
                    mentioned the name of George Talboys.
                This morning, however, after exhausting the usual topics of conversation, Lady
                    Audley made an inquiry about her nephew's friend—“That Mr. George—George—” she
                    said, hesitating.
                “Talboys,” suggested Robert.
                “Yes, to be sure—Mr. George Talboys. Rather a singular name by-the-by, and
                    certainly, by all accounts, a very singular person. Have you seen him
                    lately?”
                “I have not seen him since the 7th of September—the day upon which he left me
                    asleep in the meadows on the other side of the village.”
                “Dear me!” exclaimed my lady, “what a strange
                    young man this Mr. George Talboys must be! Pray tell me all about it.”
                Robert told, in a few words, of his visit to Southampton, and his journey to
                    Liverpool, with their different results, my lady listening very attentively.
                In order to tell this story to better advantage the young man left his chair, and
                    crossing the room, took up his place opposite to Lady Audley in the embrasure of
                    the window.
                “And what do you infer from all this?” asked my lady after a pause.
                “It is so great a mystery to me,” he answered, “that I scarcely dare to draw any
                    conclusion whatever; but in the obscurity I think I can grope my way to two
                    suppositions, which to me seem almost certainties.”
                “And they are—”
                “First, that George Talboys never went beyond Southampton. Secondly, that he
                    never went to Southampton at all.”
                “But you traced him there. His father-in-law had seen him.”
                
                “I have reason to doubt his father-in-law's integrity.”
                “Good gracious me!” cried my lady, piteously. “What do you mean by all this?”
                “Lady Audley,” answered the young man gravely, “I have never practiced as a
                    barrister. I have enrolled myself in the ranks of a profession, the members of
                    which hold solemn responsibilities, and have sacred duties to perform; and I
                    have shrunk from those responsibilities and duties, as I have from all the
                    fatigues of this troublesome life: but we are sometimes forced into the very
                    position we have most avoided, and I have found myself lately compelled to think
                    of these things. Lady Audley, did you ever study the theory of circumstantial
                    evidence?”
                “How can you ask a poor little woman about such horrid things?” exclaimed my
                    lady.
                “Circumstantial evidence,” continued the young man, as if he scarcely heard Lady
                    Audley's interruption, “that wonderful fabric which is built out of straws
                    collected at every point of the compass, and which is yet strong enough to
                        hang a man. Upon what infinitesimal
                    trifles may sometimes hang the whole secret of some wicked mystery, inexplicable
                    heretofore to the wisest upon the earth! A scrap of paper; a shred of some torn
                    garment; the button off a coat; a word dropped incautiously from the
                    over-cautious lips of guilt; the fragment of a letter; the shutting or opening
                    of a door; a shadow on a window-blind; the accuracy of a moment; a thousand
                    circumstances so slight as to be forgotten by the criminal, but links of iron in
                    the wonderful chain forged by the science of the detective officer; and lo! the
                    gallows is built up; the solemn bell tolls through the dismal grey of the early
                    morning; the drop creaks under the guilty feet; and the penalty of crime is
                    paid.”
                Faint shadows of green and crimson fell upon my lady's face from the panted
                    escutcheons in the mullioned window by which she sat; but every trace of the
                    natural colour of that face had faded out, leaving it a ghastly ashen grey.
                Sitting quietly in her chair, her head fallen back upon the amber damask
                    cushions, and her little hands lying powerless
                    in her lap, Lady Audley had fainted away.
                “The radius grows narrower day by day,” said Robert Audley. “George Talboys never
                    reached Southampton.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVI.
                ROBERT AUDLEY GETS HIS CONGé.
                THE Christmas week was over, and one by one the country visitors dropped
                    away from Audley Court. The fat squire and his wife abandoned the grey,
                    tapestried chamber, and left the black-browed warriors looming from the wall to
                    scowl upon and threaten new guests, or to glare vengefully upon vacancy. The
                    merry girls on the second story packed, or caused to be packed, their trunks and
                    imperials, and tumbled gauze ball-dresses were taken home that had been brought
                    fresh to Audley. Blundering old family chariots, with horses whose untrimmed
                    fetlocks told of rougher work than even country roads, were brought round to the
                    broad space before the grim oak door, and laden with chaotic heaps of womanly
                    luggage. Pretty rosy faces peeped out of carriage windows to smile the last farewell upon the group at the hall door, as
                    the vehicle rattled and rumbled under the ivied archway. Sir Michael was in
                    request everywhere. Shaking hands with the young sportsmen; kissing the
                    rosy-cheeked girls; sometimes even embracing portly matrons who came to thank
                    him for their pleasant visit; everywhere genial, hospitable, generous, happy,
                    and beloved, the baronet hurried from room to room, from the hall to the
                    stables, from the stables to the courtyard, from the courtyard to the arched
                    gateway, to speed the parting guest.
                My lady's yellow curls flashed hither and thither like wandering gleams of
                    sunshine on these busy days of farewell. Her great blue eyes had a pretty
                    mournful look, in charming unison with the soft pressure of her little hand, and
                    that friendly, though perhaps rather stereotyped speech, in which she told her
                    visitors how she was so sorry to lose them, and how she didn't know
                    what she should do till they came once more to enliven the court by their
                    charming society.
                
                But however sorry my lady might be to lose her visitors, there was at least one
                    guest whose society she was not deprived of. Robert Audley showed no intention
                    whatever of leaving his uncle's house. He had no professional duties, he said;
                    Fig-tree Court was delightfully shady in hot weather, but there was a sharp
                    corner round which the wind came in the winter months, armed with avenging
                    rheumatisms and influenzas. Everybody was so good to him at the Court, that
                    really he had no inclination to hurry away.
                Sir Michael had but one answer to this: “Stay, my dear boy; stay, my dear Bob, as
                    long as ever you like. I have no son, and you stand to me in the place of one.
                    Make yourself agreeable to Lucy, and make the Court your home as long as you
                    live.”
                To which Robert would merely reply by grasping his uncle's hand vehemently, and
                    muttering something about “a jolly old prince.”
                It was to be observed that there was sometimes a certain vague sadness in the
                    young man's tone when he called Sir Michael “a jolly old prince;” some shadow of affectionate regret that brought a
                    mist into Robert's eyes, as he sat in a corner of the room looking thoughtfully
                    at the white-bearded baronet.
                Before the last of the young sportsmen departed, Sir Harry Towers demanded and
                    obtained an interview with Miss Alicia Audley in the oak library—an interview in
                    which considerable emotion was displayed by the stalwart young fox-hunter; so
                    much emotion, indeed, and of such a genuine and honest character, that Alicia
                    fairly broke down as she told him that she should for ever esteem and respect
                    him for his true and noble heart, but that he must never, never, never, unless
                    he wished to cause her the most cruel distress, ask more from her than this
                    esteem and respect.
                Sir Harry left the library by the French window opening into the pond-garden. He
                    strolled into that very lime-walk which George Talboys had compared to an avenue
                    in a churchyard, and under the leafless trees fought the battle of his brave
                    young heart.
                
                “What a fool I am to feel it like this!” he cried, stamping his foot upon the
                    frosty ground. “I always knew it would be so; I always knew that she was a
                    hundred times too good for me. God bless her! How nobly and tenderly she spoke;
                    how beautiful she looked with the crimson blushes under her brown skin, and the
                    tears in her big gray eyes—almost as handsome as the day she took the sunk
                    fence, and let me put the brush in her hat as we rode home! God bless her! I can
                    get over anything as long as she doesn't care for that sneaking lawyer. But I
                    couldn't stand that.”
                That sneaking lawyer, by which appellation Sir Harry alluded to Mr. Robert
                    Audley, was standing in the hall, looking at a map of the midland counties, when
                    Alicia came out of the library, with red eyes, after her interview with the
                    fox-hunting baronet.
                Robert, who was short-sighted, had his eyes within half an inch of the surface of
                    the map as the young lady approached him.
                “Yes,” he said, “Norwich is in Norfolk, and that fool, young Vincent, said it was in
                    Herefordshire. Ha, Alicia, is that you?”
                He turned round so as to intercept Miss Audley on her way to the staircase.
                “Yes,” replied his cousin curtly, trying to pass him.
                “Alicia, you've been crying?”
                The young lady did not condescend to reply.
                “You've been crying, Alicia. Sir Harry Towers, of Towers Park, in the county of
                    Herts, has been making you an offer of his hand, eh?”
                “Have you been listening at the door, Mr. Audley?”
                “I have not, Miss Audley. On principle I object to listen, and in practice I
                    believe it to be a very troublesome proceeding; but I am a barrister, Miss
                    Alicia, and able to draw a conclusion by induction. Do you know what inductive
                    evidence is, Miss Audley?”
                “No,” replied Alicia, looking at her cousin as a handsome young panther might
                    look at its daring tormentor.
                
                “I thought not. I dare say Sir Harry would ask if it was a new kind of
                    horse-ball. I knew by induction that the baronet was going to make you an offer;
                    first, because he came downstairs with his hair parted on the wrong side, and
                    his face as pale as a table-cloth; secondly, because he couldn't eat any
                    breakfast, and let his coffee go the wrong way; and, thirdly, because he asked
                    for an interview with you before he left the Court. Well, how's it to be,
                    Alicia? Do you marry the baronet, and is poor Cousin Bob to be best man at the
                    wedding?”
                “Sir Harry Towers is a noble-hearted young man,” said Alicia, still trying to
                    pass her cousin.
                “But do we accept him—yes or no? Are we to be Lady Towers, with a superb estate
                    in Hertfordshire, summer quarters for our hunters, and a drag with outriders to
                    drive us across to papa's place in Essex? Is it to be so, Alicia, or not?”
                “What is that to you, Mr. Robert Audley?” cried Alicia passionately. “What do
                        you care what becomes of me,
                    and whom I marry? If I married a chimney-sweep, you'd only lift up your eyebrows
                    and say, ‘Bless my soul, she was always eccentric.’ I have refused Sir Harry
                    Towers; but when I think of his generous and unselfish affection, and compare it
                    with the heartless, lazy, selfish, supercilious indifference of other men, I've
                    a good mind to run after him, and tell him—”
                “That you'll retract, and be my Lady Towers?”
                “Yes.”
                “Then don't, Alicia, don't,” said Robert Audley, grasping his cousin's slender
                    little wrist, and leading her upstairs. “Come into the drawing-room with me,
                    Alicia, my poor little cousin; my charming, impetuous, alarming little cousin.
                    Sit down here in this mullioned window, and let us talk seriously, and leave off
                    quarreling, if we can.”
                The cousins had the drawing-room all to themselves. Sir Michael was out, my lady
                    in her own apartments, and poor Sir Harry Towers walking up and down upon the
                    gravel walk, darkened with the flickering
                    shadows of the leafless branches in the cold winter sunshine.
                “My poor little Alicia,” said Robert, as tenderly as if he had been addressing
                    some spoiled child, “do you suppose that because people don't wear vinegar tops,
                    or part their hair on the wrong side, or conduct themselves altogether after the
                    manner of well-meaning maniacs, by way of proving the vehemence of their
                    passion—do you suppose because of this, Alicia Audley, that they may not be just
                    as sensible of the merits of a dear little, warm-hearted, and affectionate girl
                    as ever their neighbours can be? Life is such a very troublesome matter, when
                    all is said and done, that it's as well even to take its blessings quietly. I
                    don't make a great howling because I can get good cigars one door from the
                    corner of Chancery Lane, and have a dear, good girl for my cousin: but I am not
                    the less grateful to Providence that it is so.”
                Alicia opened her grey eyes to their widest extent, looking her cousin full in
                    the face with a bewildered stare. Robert had picked up the ugliest and leanest of his attendant curs, and was
                    placidly stroking the animal's ears.
                “Is this all you have to say to me, Robert?” asked Miss Audley, meekly.
                “Well, yes, I think so,” replied her cousin, after considerable deliberation. “I
                    fancy that what I wanted to say was this—don't marry the fox-hunting baronet, if
                    you like anybody else better; for if you'll only be patient, and take life
                    easily, and try and reform yourself of banging doors, bouncing in and out rooms,
                    talking of the stables, and riding across country, I've no doubt the person you
                    prefer will make you a very excellent husband.”
                “Thank you, cousin,” said Miss Audley, crimsoning with bright indignant blushes
                    up to the roots of her waving brown hair; “but as you may not know the person I
                    prefer, I think you had better not take upon yourself to answer for him.”
                Robert pulled the dog's ears thoughtfully for some moments.
                “No, to be sure,” he said, after a pause. “Of
                    course, if I don't know him—but I thought I did.”
                “Did you!” exclaimed Alicia; and opening the door with a violence
                    that made her cousin shiver, she bounced out of the drawing-room.
                “I only said I thought I knew him,” Robert called after her; and then, as he sank
                    into an easy-chair, he murmured thoughtfully, “Such a nice girl, too, if she
                    didn't bounce!”
                So poor Sir Harry Towers rode away from Audley Court, looking very crestfallen
                    and dismal.
                He had very little pleasure now in returning to the stately mansion hidden among
                    sheltering oaks and venerable beeches. The square, red brick house gleaming at
                    the end of a long arcade of leafless trees was to be forever desolate, he
                    thought, since Alicia would not come to be its mistress.
                A hundred improvements planned and thought of were dismissed from his mind as
                    useless now. The hunter that Jim the trainer was breaking in for a lady; the two
                    pointer pups that were being reared for the next shooting season; the big black retriever that would have carried
                    Alicia's parasol; the pavilion in the garden, disused since his mother's death,
                    but which he had meant to have restored for Miss Audley—all these things were
                    now so much vanity and vexation of spirit.
                “What's the good of being rich, if one has no one to help spend one's money?”
                    said the young baronet. “One only grows a selfish beggar, and takes to drinking
                    too much port. It's a hard thing that a girl can refuse a true heart and such
                    stables as we've got at the park. It unsettles a man somehow.”
                Indeed, this unlooked-for rejection had very much unsettled the few ideas which
                    made up the small sum of the baronet's mind.
                He had been desperately in love with Alicia ever since the last hunting season,
                    when he had met her at a county ball. His passion, cherished through the slow
                    monotony of a summer, had broken out afresh in the merry winter months, and the
                    young man's mauvaise honte alone had delayed
                    the offer of his hand. But he had never for a moment supposed that he would be
                        refused; he was so used to the adulation
                    of mothers who had daughters to marry, and of even the daughters themselves; he
                    had been so accustomed to feel himself the leading personage in an assembly,
                    although half the wits of the age had been there, and he could only say, “Haw,
                    to be sure!” and “By Jove!” he had been so spoiled by the flatteries of bright
                    eyes that had looked, or seemed to look, the brighter when he drew near, that
                    without being possessed of one shadow of personal vanity, he had yet come to
                    think that he had only to make an offer to the prettiest girl in Essex, to
                    behold himself immediately accepted.
                “Yes,” he would say complacently to some admiring satellite, “I know I'm a good
                    match, and I know what makes the gals so civil. They're very pretty, and they're
                    very friendly to a fellow; but I don't care about 'em. They're all alike—they
                    can only drop their eyes and say, ‘Lor, Sir Harry, and why do you call that
                    curly black dog a retriever?’ or ‘Oh, Sir Harry, and did the poor mare really
                    sprain her pastern shoulder-blade?’ I haven't got much brains myself, I know,” the baronet would add
                    deprecatingly; “and I don't want a strong-minded woman, who writes books and
                    wears green spectacles; but, hang it! I like a girl who knows what she's talking
                    about.”
                So when Alicia said “No,” or rather, made that pretty speech about esteem and
                    respect, which well-bred young ladies substitute for the obnoxious monosyllable,
                    Sir Harry Towers felt that the whole fabric of the future he had built up so
                    complacently was shivered into a heap of dingy ruins.
                Sir Michael grasped him warmly by the hand just before the young man mounted his
                    horse in the courtyard.
                “I'm very sorry, Towers,” he said. “You're as good a fellow as ever breathed, and
                    would have made my girl an excellent husband; but you know there's a cousin, and
                    I think that—”
                “Don't say that, Sir Michael,” interrupted the fox-hunter energetically. “I can
                    get over anything but that. A fellow whose hand upon the curb weighs half a ton
                    (why, he pulled the 
                        Cava-
                        Cavalier's
                     lier's mouth to pieces, Sir, the day
                    you let him ride the horse); a fellow who turns his collars down, and eats bread
                    and marmalade! No, no, Sir Michael; it's a queer world, but I can't think that
                    of Miss Audley. There must be some one in the background, Sir: it can't be the
                    cousin.”
                Sir Michael shook his head as the rejected suitor rode away.
                “I don't know about that,” he muttered. “Bob's a good lad, and the girl might do
                    worse; but he hangs back, as if he didn't care for her. There's some
                    mystery—there's some mystery!”
                The old baronet said this in that semi-thoughtful tone with which we speak of
                    other people's affairs. The shadows of the early winter twilight, gathering
                    thickest under the low oak ceiling of the hall, and the quaint curve of the
                    arched doorway, fell darkly round his handsome head; but the light of his
                    declining life, his beautiful and beloved young wife, was near him, and he could
                    see no shadows when she was by.
                
                She came skipping through the hall to meet him, and shaking her golden ringlets,
                    buried her bright head on her husband's breast.
                “So the last of our visitors is gone, dear, and we're all alone,” she said.
                    “Isn't that nice?”
                “Yes, darling,” he answered fondly, stroking her bright hair.
                “Except Mr. Robert Audley. How long is that nephew of yours going to stay
                    here?”
                “As long as he likes, my pet; he's always welcome,” said the baronet; and then,
                    as if remembering himself, he added tenderly, “but not unless his visit is
                    agreeable to you, darling; not if his lazy habits, or his smoking, or his dogs,
                    or anything about him, is displeasing to you.”
                Lady Audley pursed up her rosy lips, and looked thoughtfully at the ground.
                “It isn't that,” she said hesitatingly. “Mr. Audley is a very agreeable young
                    man, and a very honorable young man; but you know, Sir Michael, I'm rather a
                    young aunt for such a nephew, and—”
                
                “And what, Lucy?” asked the baronet, fiercely.
                “Poor Alicia is rather jealous of any attention Mr. Audley pays me, and—and—I
                    think it would be better for her happiness if your nephew were to bring his
                    visit to a close.”
                “He shall go to-night, Lucy!” exclaimed Sir Michael. “I've a blind, neglectful
                    fool not to have thought of this before. My lovely little darling, it was
                    scarcely just to Bob to expose the poor lad to your fascinations. I know him to
                    be as good and true-hearted a fellow as ever breathed, but—but—he shall go
                    tonight.”
                “But you won't be too abrupt, dear! You won't be rude?”
                “Rude! No, Lucy. I left him smoking in the lime-walk. I'll go and tell him that
                    he must get out of the house in an hour.”
                So in that leafless avenue, under whose gloomy shade George Talboys had stood on
                    that thunderous evening before the day of his disappearance. Sir Michael Audley
                    told his nephew that the Court was no home for
                    him, and that my lady was too young and pretty to accept the attentions of a
                    handsome nephew of eight-and-twenty.
                Robert only shrugged his shoulders and elevated his thick black eyebrows, as Sir
                    Michael delicately hinted all this.
                “I have been attentive to my lady,” he said. “She interests
                    me—strongly, strangely interests me;” and then, with a change in his voice, and
                    an emotion not common to him, he turned to the baronet, and grasping his hand,
                    exclaimed—“God forbid, my dear uncle, that I should ever bring trouble upon such
                    a noble heart as yours! God forbid that the slightest shadow of dishonour should
                    ever fall upon your honoured head—least of all through any agency of mine!”
                The young man uttered these few words in a broken and disjointed fashion in which
                    Sir Michael had never heard him speak before, and then, turning away his head,
                    fairly broke down.
                He left the court that night, but he did not go far. Instead of taking the
                    evening train for London, he went straight up
                    to the little village of Mount Stanning, and walking into the neatly-kept inn,
                    asked Phœbe Marks if he could be accommodated with apartments.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVII.
                AT THE CASTLE INN.
                THE little sitting-room into which Phœbe Marks ushered the baronet's
                    nephew was situated on the ground floor, and only separated by a
                    lath-and-plaster partition from the little bar-parlour occupied by the innkeeper
                    and his wife.
                It seemed as though the wise architect who had superintended the building of the
                    Castle Inn had taken especial care that nothing but the frailest and most flimsy
                    material should be employed in its construction, and that the wind, having a
                    special fancy for this unprotected spot, should have full play for the
                    indulgence of its caprices.
                To this end pitiful woodwork had been used instead of solid masonry; rickety
                    ceilings had been propped up by fragile rafters, and beams that threatened on
                    every stormy night to fall upon the heads of those beneath them; doors whose 
                        spe-
                        speciality
                     cialty was never to be shut, yet
                    always to be banging; windows constructed with a peculiar view to letting in the
                    draught when they were closed, and keeping out the air when they were open. The
                    hand of genius had devised this lonely country inn; and there was not an inch of
                    woodwork, or a trowelful of plaster employed in all the rickety construction,
                    that did not offer its own peculiar weak point to every assault of its
                    indefatigable foe.
                Robert looked about him with a feeble smile of resignation.
                It was a change, decidedly, from the luxurious comforts of Audley Court, and it
                    was rather a strange fancy of the young barrister to prefer loitering at this
                    dreary village hostelry, to returning to his snug chambers in Fig-tree
                    Court.
                But he had brought his Lares and Penates with him, in the shape of his German
                    pipe, his tobacco canister, half a dozen French novels, and his two
                    ill-conditioned canine favourites, who sat shivering before the smoky little
                    fire, barking shortly and sharply now and
                    then, by way of hinting for some slight refreshment.
                While Mr. Robert Audley contemplated his new quarters, Phœbe Marks summoned a
                    little village lad who was in the habit of running errands for her, and taking
                    him into the kitchen, gave him a tiny note, carefully folded and sealed.
                “You know Audley Court?”
                “Yes, Mum.”
                “If you'll run there with this letter to-night, and see that it's put safely into
                    Lady Audley's hands, I'll give you a shilling.”
                “Yes, Mum.”
                “You understand? Ask to see my lady; you can say you've a message—not a note,
                    mind—but a message from Phœbe Marks; and when you see her give this into her own
                    hand.”
                “Yes, Mum.”
                “You, won't forget?”
                “No, Mum.”
                “Then be off with you.”
                The boy waited for no second bidding, but in another moment was scudding along
                    the hilly high road, down the sharp descent
                    that led to Audley.
                Phœbe Marks went to the window, and looked out at the black figure of the lad
                    hurrying through the dusky winter evening.
                “If there's any bad meaning in his coming here,” she thought, “my lady will know
                    of it in time, at any rate.”
                Phœbe herself brought the neatly arranged tea-tray; and the little covered dish
                    of ham and eggs which had been prepared for this unlooked-for visitor. Her pale
                    hair was as smoothly braided, and her light grey dress fitted as precisely, as
                    of old. The same neutral tints pervaded her person and her dress; no showy
                    rose-coloured ribbons or rustling silk gown proclaimed the well-to-do
                    innkeeper's wife. Phœbe Marks was a person who never lost her individuality.
                    Silent and self-contained, she seemed to hold herself within herself, and take
                    no colour from the outer world.
                Robert looked at her thoughtfully as she spread the cloth, and drew the table
                    nearer to the fireplace.
                
                “That,” he thought, “is a woman who could keep a secret.”
                The dogs looked rather suspiciously at the quiet figure of Mrs. Marks gliding
                    softly about the room, from the teapot to the caddy, and from the caddy to the
                    kettle singing on the hob.
                “Will you pour out my tea for me, Mrs. Marks?” said Robert, seating himself in a
                    horse-hair-covered arm-chair, which fitted him as tightly in every direction as
                    if he had been measured for it.
                “You have come straight from the Court, Sir?” said Phœbe, as she handed Robert
                    the sugar-basin.
                “Yes; I only left my uncle's an hour ago.”
                “And my lady, Sir, was she quite well?”
                “Yes, quite well.”
                “As gay and light-hearted as ever, Sir?”
                “As gay and light-hearted as ever.”
                Phœbe retired respectfully after having given Mr. Audley his tea, but as she
                    stood with her hand upon the lock of the door he spoke again.
                
                “You knew Lady Audley when she was Miss Lucy Graham, did you not?” he asked.
                “Yes, Sir. I lived at Mrs. Dawson's when my lady was governess there.”
                “Indeed! Was she long in the surgeon's family?”
                “A year and a half, Sir.”
                “And she came from London?”
                “Yes, Sir.”
                “And she was an orphan, I belleve?”
                “Yes, Sir.”
                “Always as cheerful as she is now?”
                “Always, Sir.”
                Robert emptied his teacup and handed it to Mrs. Marks. Their eyes met—a lazy look
                    in his, and an active, searching glance in hers.
                “This woman would be good in a witness-box,” he thought; “it would take a clever
                    lawyer to bother her in a cross-examination.”
                He finished his second cup of tea, pushed away his plate, fed his dogs, and
                    lighted his pipe, while Phœbe carried off the tea-tray.
                The wind came whistling up across the frosty
                    open country, and through the leafless woods, and rattled fiercely at the
                    window-frames.
                “There's a triangular draught from those two windows and the door that scarcely
                    adds to the comfort of this apartment,” murmured Robert; “and there certainly
                    are pleasanter sensations than that of standing up to one's knees in cold
                    water.”
                He poked the fire, patted his dogs, put on his great-coat, rolled a rickety old
                    sofa close to the hearth, wrapped his legs in his railway rug, and stretching
                    himself at full length upon the narrow horsehair cushion, smoked his pipe, and
                    watched the bluish-grey wreaths curling upwards to the dingy ceiling.
                “No,” he murmured again; “that is a woman who can keep a secret. A counsel for
                    the prosecution would get very little out of her.”
                I have said that the bar-parlour was only separated from the sitting-room
                    occupied by Robert by a lath-and-plaster partition. The young barrister could
                    hear the two or three village tradesmen and a couple of farmers laughing and
                        talking round the bar, while Luke Marks
                    served them from his stock of liquors.
                Very often he could even hear their words, especially the landlord's, for he
                    spoke in a coarse, loud voice, and had a more boastful manner than any of his
                    customers.
                “The man is a fool,” said Robert, as he laid down his pipe. “I'll go and talk to
                    him by-and by.”
                He waited till the few visitors to the Castle had dropped away one by one, and,
                    when Luke Marks had bolted the front door upon the last of his customers, he
                    strolled quietly into the bar-parlour where the landlord was seated with his
                    wife.
                Phœbe was busy at a little table, upon which stood a prim workbox, with every
                    reel of cotton and glistening steel bodkin in its appointed place. She was
                    darning the coarse gray stockings that adorned her husband's awkward feet, but
                    she did her work as daintily as if they had been my lady's delicate silken
                    hose.
                I say that she took no colour from external things, and that the vague air of
                        refinement that pervaded her nature, clung
                    to her as closely in the society of her boorish husband at the Castle Inn, as in
                    Lady Audley's fairy boudoir at the Court.
                She looked up suddenly as Robert entered the bar-parlour. There was some shade of
                    vexation in her pale grey eyes, which changed to an expression of anxiety—nay,
                    rather, of almost terror—as she glanced from Mr. Audley to Luke Marks.
                “I have come in for a few minutes' chat before I go to bed,” said Robert,
                    settling himself very comfortably before the cheerful fire. “Would you object to
                    a cigar, Mrs. Marks? I mean, of course, to my smoking one,” he added,
                    explanatorily.
                “Not at all, Sir.”
                “It would be a good 'un her objectin' to a bit o' bacca,” growled Mr. Marks,
                    “when me and the customers smokes all day.”
                Robert lighted his cigar with a gilt-paper match of Phœbe's making that adorned
                    the chimney-piece, and took half a dozen reflective puffs before he spoke.
                
                “I want you to tell me all about Mount Stanning, Mr. Marks,” he said
                    presently.
                “Then that's pretty soon told,” replied Luke, with a harsh, grating laugh. “Of
                    all the dull holes as ever a man set foot in, this is about the dullest. Not
                    that the business don't pay pretty tidy; I don't complain of that; but I should
                    ha' liked a public at Chelmsford, or Brentwood, or Romford, or some place where
                    there's a bit of life in the streets; and I might have had it,” he added,
                    discontentedly, “if folks hadn't been so precious stingy.”
                As her husband muttered this complaint in a grumbling under-tone, Phœbe looked up
                    from her work and spoke to him.
                “We forgot the brewhouse door, Luke,” she said. “Will you come with me and help
                    me put up the bar?”
                “The brewhouse door can bide for to-night,” said Mr. Marks; “I ain't agoin' to
                    move now I've seated myself for a comfortable smoke.”
                He took a long clay pipe from a corner of the fender as he spoke, and began to
                    fill it deliberately.
                
                “I don't feel easy about that brewhouse door, Luke,” remonstrated his wife;
                    “there are always tramps about, and they can get in easily when the bar isn't
                    up.”
                “Go and put the bar up yourself, then, can't you!” answered Mr. Marks.
                “It's too heavy for me to lift.”
                “Then let it bide, if you're too fine a lady to see to it yourself. You're very
                    anxious all of a sudden about this here brewhouse door. I suppose you don't want
                    me to open my mouth to this gent, that's about it. Oh, you needn't frown at me
                    to stop my speaking! You're always putting in your tongue and clipping off my
                    words before I've half said 'em; but I won't stand it. Do you hear? I won't
                    stand it!”
                Phœbe Marks shrugged her shoulders, folded her work, shut her workbox, and
                    crossing her hands in her lap, sat with her grey eyes fixed upon her husband's
                    bull-like face.
                “Then you don't particularly care to live at Mount Stanning?” said Robert,
                    politely, as if anxious to change the conversation.
                
                “No, I don't,” answered Luke; “and I don't care who knows it; and, as I said
                    before, if folks hadn't been so precious stingy, I might have had a public in a
                    thrivin' market town, instead of this tumble-down old place, where a man has his
                    hair blowed off his head on a windy day. What's fifty pound, or what's a hundred
                    pound—?”
                “Luke! Luke!”
                “No, you're not agoin' to stop my mouth with all your ‘Luke, Lukes!’” answered
                    Mr. Marks, to his wife's remonstrance. “I say again, what's a hundred
                    pound?”
                “No,” answered Robert Audley, speaking with wonderful distinctness, and
                    addressing his words to Luke Marks, but fixing his eyes upon Phœbe's anxious
                    face. “What, indeed, is a hundred pounds to a man possessed of the power which
                    you hold, or rather which your wife holds, over the person in question?”
                Phœbe's face, at all times almost colourless, seemed scarcely capable of growing
                    paler; but as her eyelids dropped under Robert Audley's 
                        search-
                        searching
                     ing glance, a visible change came
                    over the pallid hues of her complexion.
                “A quarter to twelve,” said Robert, looking at his watch. “Late hours for such a
                    quiet village as Mount Stanning. Goodnight, my worthy host. Good night, Mrs.
                    Marks. You needn't send me my shaving water till nine o'clock to-morrow
                    morning.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVIII.
                ROBERT RECEIVES A VISITOR WHOM HE HAD SCARCELY EXPECTED.
                ELEVEN o'clock struck the next morning, and found Mr. Robert Audley
                    still lounging over the well-ordered little breakfast table, with one of his
                    dogs at each side of his arm-chair, regarding him with watchful eyes and opened
                    mouth, awaiting the expected morsel of ham or toast. Robert had a county paper
                    on his knees, and made a feeble effort now and then to read the first page,
                    which was filled with advertisements of farming stock, quack medicines, and
                    other interesting matter.
                The weather had changed, and the snow, which had for the last few days been
                    looming blackly in the frosty sky, fell in great feathery flakes against the
                    windows, and lay piled in the little bit of garden ground without.
                The long, lonely road leading towards Audley
                    seemed untrodden by a footstep, as Robert looked out at the wintry
                    landscape.
                “Lively,” he said, “for a man used to the fascinations of Temple Bar!”
                As he watched the snow-flakes falling every moment thicker and faster upon the
                    lonely road, he was surprised by seeing a brougham driving slowly up the
                    hill.
                “I wonder what unhappy wretch has too restless a spirit to stop at home on such a
                    morning as this,” he muttered, as he returned to the arm-chair by the fire.
                He had only reseated himself a few minutes when Phœbe Marks entered the room to
                    announce Lady Audley.
                “Lady Audley! Pray beg her to come in,” said Robert; and then, as Phœbe left the
                    room to usher in this unexpected visitor, he muttered between his teeth—
                “A false move, my lady, and one I never looked for from you.”
                Lucy Audley was radiant on this cold and snowy January morning. Other people's
                        noses are rudely assailed by the sharp
                    fingers of the grim ice-king, but not my lady's; other people's lips turn pale
                    and blue with the chilling influence of the bitter weather, but my lady's pretty
                    little rosebud of a mouth retained its brightest colouring and cheeriest
                    freshness.
                She was wrapped in the very sables which Robert Audley had brought from Russia,
                    and carried a muff that the young man thought seemed almost as big as
                    herself.
                She looked a childish, helpless, babyfied little creature; and Robert watched her
                    with some touch of pity in his eyes, as she came up to the hearth by which he
                    was standing, and warmed her tiny gloved hands at the blaze.
                “What a morning, Mr. Audley,” she said, “what a morning!”
                “Yes, indeed! Why did you come out in such weather, Lady Audley?”
                “Because I wished to see you—particularly.”
                “Indeed!”
                “Yes,” said my lady, with an air of considerable embarrassment, playing with the
                    button of her glove, and almost wrenching it
                    off in her restlessness—“yes, Mr. Audley, I felt that you had not been well
                    treated; that—that you had, in short, reason to complain; and that an apology
                    was due to you.”
                “I do not wish for any apology, Lady Audley.”
                “But you are entitled to one,” answered my lady, quietly. “Why, my dear Robert,
                    should we be so very ceremonious towards each other? You were very comfortable
                    at Audley; we were very glad to have you there; but my dear, silly husband must
                    needs take it into his foolish head that it is dangerous for his poor little
                    wife's peace of mind to have a nephew of eight or nine and twenty smoking his
                    cigars in her boudoir, and, behold! our pleasant little family circle is broken
                    up.”
                Lucy Audley spoke with that peculiar childish vivacity which seemed so natural to
                    her. Robert looked down almost sadly at her bright, animated face.
                “Lady Audley,” he said, “Heaven forbid that either you or I should ever bring
                    grief or dishonour upon my uncle's generous heart! Better, perhaps, that I should be out of the house—better,
                    perhaps, that I had never entered it!”
                My lady had been looking at the fire while her nephew spoke, but at his last
                    words she lifted her head suddenly, and looked him full in the face with a
                    wondering expression—an earnest, questioning gaze, whose full meaning the young
                    barrister understood.
                “Oh, pray do not be alarmed, Lady Audley,” he said gravely. “You have no
                    sentimental nonsense, no silly infatuation, borrowed from Balzac, or Dumas
                        fils, to fear from me. The benchers of the
                    Inner Temple will tell you that Robert Audley is troubled with none of the
                    epidemics whose outward signs are turn-down collars and Byronic neckties. I say
                    that I wish I had never entered my uncle's house during the last year; but I say
                    it with a far more solemn meaning than any sentimental one.”
                My lady shrugged her shoulders.
                “If you insist on talking in enigmas, Mr. Audley,” she said, “you must forgive a
                    poor little woman if she declines to answer them.”
                
                Robert made no reply to this speech.
                “But tell me,” said my lady, with an entire change of tone, “what could have
                    induced you to come up to this dismal place?”
                “Curiosity.”
                “Curiosity!”
                “Yes; I felt an interest in that bull-necked man, with the dark red hair and
                    wicked grey eyes. A dangerous man, my lady—a man in whose power I should not
                    like to be.”
                A sudden change came over Lady Audley's face; the pretty roseate flush faded out
                    from her cheeks, and left them waxen white, and angry flashes lightened in her
                    blue eyes.
                “What have I done to you, Robert Audley,” she cried passionately—“what have I
                    done to you, that you should hate me so?”
                He answered her very gravely,—
                “I had a friend, Lady Audley, whom I loved very dearly, and since I have lost him
                    I fear that my feelings towards other people are strangely embittered.”
                
                “You mean—the Mr. Talboys who went to Australia?”
                “Yes; I mean the Mr. Talboys, who I was told set out for Liverpool with the idea
                    of going to Australia.”
                “And you do not believe in his having sailed for Australia?”
                “I do not.”
                “But why not?”
                “Forgive me, Lady Audley, if I decline to answer that question.”
                “As you please,” she said carelessly.
                “A week after my friend disappeared,” continued Robert, “I posted an
                    advertisement to the Sydney and Melbourne papers, calling upon him, if he was in
                    either city when the advertisement appeared, to write and tell me of his
                    whereabouts, and also calling on any one who had met him, either in the colonies
                    or on the voyage out, to give me any information respecting him. George Talboys
                    left Essex, or disappeared from Essex, on the 6th of September last. I ought to
                    receive some answer to this advertisement by the end of this month. To-day is the 27th: the time draws very
                    near.”
                “And if you receive no answer?” asked Lady Audley.
                “If I receive no answer I shall think that my fears have been not unfounded, and
                    I shall do my best to act.”
                “What do you mean by that?”
                “Ah, Lady Audley, you remind me how very powerless I am in this matter. My friend
                    might have been made away with in this very inn, stabbed to death upon this
                    hearth-stone on which I now stand, and I might stay here for a twelve-month, and
                    go away at the last as ignorant of his fate as if I had never crossed the
                    threshold. What do we know of the mysteries that may hang about the houses we
                    enter? If I were to go to-morrow into that common-place, plebeian, eight-roomed
                    house in which Maria Manning and her husband murdered their guest, I should have
                    no awful prescience of that bygone horror. Foul deeds have been done under the
                    most hospitable roofs, terrible crimes have been committed amid the fairest scenes, and have left no trace upon the
                    spot where they were done. I do not believe in mandrake, or in blood-stains that
                    no time can efface. I believe rather that we may walk unconsciously in an
                    atmosphere of crime, and breathe none the less freely. I believe that we may
                    look into the smiling face of a murderer, and admire its tranquil beauty.”
                My lady laughed at Robert's earnestness.
                “You seem to have quite a taste for discussing these horrible subjects,” she
                    said, rather scornfully; “you ought to have been a detective police
                    officer.”
                “I sometimes think I should have been a good one.”
                “Why?”
                “Because I am patient.”
                “But to return to Mr. George Talboys, whom we lost sight of in your eloquent
                    discussion. What if you receive no answer to your advertisements?”
                “I shall then consider myself justified in concluding that my friend is
                    dead.”
                
                “Yes, and then—?”
                “I shall examine the effects he left at my chambers.”
                “Indeed! and what are they? Coats, waistcoats, varnished boots, and meerschaum
                    pipes, I suppose,” said Lady Audley, laughing.
                “No; letters—letters from his friends, his old school-fellows, his father, his
                    brother-officers.”
                “Yes?”
                “Letters, too, from his wife.”
                My lady was silent for some few moments, looking tboughtfully at the fire.
                “Have you ever seen any of the letters written by the late Mrs. Talboys?” she
                    asked presently.
                “Never. Poor soul! her letters are not likely to throw much light upon my
                    friend's fate. I dare say she wrote the usual womanly scrawl. There are very few
                    who write so charming and uncommon a hand as yours, Lady Audley.”
                “Ah, you know my hand of course.”
                “Yes, I know it very well, indeed.”
                My lady warmed her hands once more, and then taking up the big muff which she had
                        laid aside upon a chair, prepared to take
                    her departure.
                “You have refused to accept my apology, Mr. Audley,” she said; “but I trust you
                    are not the less assured of my feelings towards you.”
                “Perfectly assured, Lady Audley.”
                “Then good-by, and let me recommend you not to stay long in this miserable
                    draughty place, if you do not wish to take rheumatism back to Fig-tree
                    Court.”
                “I shall return to town to-morrow morning to see after my letters.”
                “Then, once more, good-by.”
                She held out her hand; he took it loosely in his own. It seemed such a feeble
                    little hand that he might have crushed it in his strong grasp, had he chosen to
                    be so pitiless.
                He attended her to her carriage, and watched it as it drove off, not towards
                    Audley, but in the direction of Brentwood, which was about six miles from Mount
                    Stanning.
                About an hour and a half after this, as Robert stood at the door of the inn,
                    smoking a cigar and watching the snow falling
                    in the whitened fields opposite, he saw the brougham drive back, empty this
                    time, to the door of the inn.
                “Have you taken Lady Audley back to the Court?” he said to the coachman, who had
                    stopped to call for a mug of hot spiced ale.
                “No, sir; I've just come from the Brentwood station. My lady started for London
                    by the 12.40 train.”
                “For town?”
                “Yes, Sir.”
                “My lady gone to London!” said Robert, as he returned to the little sitting-room.
                    “Then I'll follow her by the next train; and if I'm not very much mistaken, I
                    know where to find her.”
                He packed his portmanteau, paid his bill, which was carefully receipted by Phœbe
                    Marks, fastened his dogs together with a couple of leathern collars and a chain,
                    and stepped into the rumbling fly kept at the Castle Inn for the convenience of
                    Mount Stanning. He caught an express that left Brentwood at three o'clock, and
                    settled himself comfortably in a corner of an
                    empty first-class carriage, coiled up in a couple of huge railway rugs, and
                    smoking a cigar in mild defiance of the authorities. “The Company may make as
                    many bye-laws as they please,” he murmured, “but I shall take the liberty of
                    enjoying my cheroot as long as I've half-a-crown left to give the guard.”
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIX.
                THE BLACKSMITH'S MISTAKE.
                IT was exactly five minutes past four as Mr. Robert Audley stepped out
                    upon the platform at Shoreditch, and waited placidly until such time as his dogs
                    and his portmanteau should be delivered up to the attendant porter who had
                    called his cab, and undertaken the general conduct of his affairs, with that
                    disinterested courtesy which does such infinite credit to a class of servitors
                    who are forbidden to accept the tribute of a grateful public. Robert Audley
                    waited with consummate patience for a considerable time; but as the express was
                    generally a long train, and as there were a great many passengers from Norfolk
                    carrying guns and pointers, and other paraphernalia of a critical description,
                    it took a long while to make matters agreeable to all claimants, and even the
                        barrister's seraphic indifference to
                    mundane affairs nearly gave way.
                “Perhaps, when that gentleman who is making such a noise about a pointer with
                    liver-coloured spots, has discovered the particular pointer and spots that he
                    wants—which happy combination of events scarcely seems likely to arrive—they'll
                    give me my luggage and let me go. The designing wretches knew at a glance that I
                    was born to be imposed upon; and that if they were to trample the life out of me
                    upon this very platform, I should never have the spirit to bring an action
                    against the company.” Suddenly an idea seemed to strike him, and he left the
                    porter to struggle for the custody of his goods, and walked round to the other
                    side of the station.
                He had heard a bell ring, and, looking at the clock, had remembered that the down
                    train for Colchester started at this time. He had learned what it was to have an
                    honest purpose since the disappearance of George Talboys; and he reached the
                    opposite platform in time to see the passengers take their seats.
                
                There was one lady who had evidently only just arrived at the station; for she
                    hurried on to the platform at the very moment that Robert approached the train,
                    and almost ran against that gentleman in her haste and excitement.
                “I beg your pardon—” she began, ceremoniously; then raising her eyes from Mr.
                    Audley's waistcoat, which was about on a level with her pretty face, she
                    exclaimed, “Robert! You in London already?”
                “Yes, Lady Audley; you were quite right, the Castle Inn is a dismal place,
                    and—”
                “You got tired of it—I knew you would. Please open the carriage-door for me: the
                    train will start in two minutes.”
                Robert Audley was looking at his uncle's wife with rather a puzzled expression of
                    countenance.
                “What does it mean?” he thought. “She is altogether a different being to the
                    wretched, helpless creature who dropped her mask for a moment, and looked at me
                    with her own pitiful face, in the little room at Mount Stanning, four hours ago.
                    What has happened to cause the change?”
                
                He opened the door for her while he thought this, and helped her to settle
                    herself in her seat, spreading her furs over her knees, and arranging the huge
                    velvet mantle in which her slender little figure was almost hidden.
                “Thank you very much; how good you are to me!” she said, as he did this. “You
                    will think me very foolish to travel upon such a day, without my dear darling's
                    knowledge too; but I went up to town to settle a very terrific milliner's bill,
                    which I did not wish my best of husbands to see; for indulgent as he is, he
                    might think me extravagant; and I cannot bear to suffer even in his
                    thoughts.”
                “Heaven forbid that you ever should, Lady Audley,” Robert said, gravely.
                She looked at him for a moment with a smile, which had something defiant in its
                    brightness.
                “Heaven forbid it, indeed,” she murmured. “I don't think I ever shall.”
                The second bell rang, and the train moved as she spoke. The last Robert Audley
                    saw of her was that bright defiant smile.
                “Whatever object brought her to London has been
                    successfully accomplished,” he thought. “Has she baffled me by some piece of
                    womanly jugglery? Am I never to get any nearer to the truth; but am I to be
                    tormented all my life by vague doubts, and wretched suspicions, which may grow
                    upon me till I become a monomaniac? Why did she come to London?”
                He was still mentally asking himself this question as he ascended the stairs in
                    Fig-tree Court, with one of his dogs under each arm, and his railway rugs over
                    his shoulder.
                He found his chambers in their accustomed order. The geraniums had been carefully
                    tended, and the canaries had retired for the night under cover of a square of
                    green baize, testifying to the care of honest Mrs. Maloney. Robert cast a
                    hurried glance round the sitting-room; then setting down the dogs upon the
                    hearth-rug, he walked straight into the little inner chamber which served as his
                    dressing-room.
                It was in this room that he kept disused portmanteaus, battered japanned cases,
                    and other lumber; and it was in this room that George Talboys had left his luggage. Robert lifted a
                    portmanteau from the top of a large trunk, and kneeling down before it with a
                    lighted candle in his hand, carefully examined the lock.
                To all appearance it was exactly in the same condition in which George had left
                    it when he laid his mourning garments aside and placed them in this shabby
                    repository, with all other memorials of his dead wife. Robert brushed his coat
                    sleeve across the worn leather-covered lid, upon which the initials G.T. were
                    inscribed with big brass-headed nails; but Mrs. Maloney, the laundress, must
                    have been the most precise of housewives, for neither the portmanteau nor the
                    trunk were dusty.
                Mr. Audley dispatched a boy to fetch his Irish attendant, and paced up and down
                    his sitting-room, waiting anxiously for her arrival.
                She came in about ten minutes, and, after expressing her delight in the return of
                    “the masther,” humbly awaited his orders.
                “I only sent for you to ask if anybody has been here; that is to say, if anybody
                        has applied to you for the key of my rooms
                    to-day—any lady?”
                “Lady? No, indeed, yer honour; there's been no lady for the kay; barrin' it's the
                    blacksmith yer honour manes.”
                “The blacksmith!”
                “Yes; the blacksmith your honour ordered to come to-day.”
                “I order a blacksmith!” exclaimed Robert, “I left a bottle of French brandy in
                    the cupboard,” he thought, “and Mrs. M. has been evidently enjoying
                    herself.”
                “Sure, and the blacksmith your honour tould to see to the locks,” replied Mrs.
                    Maloney. “It's him that lives down in one of the little streets by the bridge,”
                    she added, giving a very lucid description of the man's whereabouts.
                Robert lifted his eyebrows in mute despair.
                “If you'll sit down and compose yourself, Mrs. M.,” he said—he abbreviated her
                    name thus on principle, for the avoidance of unnecessary labour—“perhaps we
                    shall be able by-and-by to understand each other. You say a blacksmith has been
                    here?”
                
                “Sure and I did, sir.”
                “To-day?”
                “Quite correct, sir.”
                Step by step Mr. Audley elicited the following information. A locksmith had
                    called upon Mrs. Maloney that afternoon at three o'clock, and had asked for the
                    key of Mr. Audley's chambers; in order that he might look to the locks of the
                    doors, which he stated were all out of repair. He declared that he was acting
                    upon Mr. Audley's own orders, conveyed to him by a letter from the country,
                    where the gentleman was spending his Christmas. Mrs. Maloney, believing in the
                    truth of this statement, had admitted the man to the chambers, where he stayed
                    about half an hour.
                “But you were with him while he examined the locks, I suppose?” Mr. Audley
                    asked.
                “Sure I was, sir, in and out, as you may say, all the time; for I've been
                    cleaning the stairs this afternoon, and I took the opporchunity to
                    begin my scouring while the man was at work.”
                “Oh, you were in and out all the time. If you could conveniently
                    give me a plain answer, Mrs. M., I should be
                    glad to know what was the longest time that you were out while the
                    locksmith was in my chambers?”
                But Mrs. Maloney could not give a plain answer. It might have been ten minutes;
                    though she didn't think it was as much. It might have been a quarter of an hour;
                    but she was sure it wasn't more. It didn't seem to her more than
                    five minutes; but ”thim stairrs, your honour—” and here she rambled off into a
                    disquisition upon the scouring of stairs in general, and the stairs outside
                    Robert's chambers in particular.
                Mr. Audley sighed the weary sigh of mournful resignation.
                “Never mind, Mrs. M.,” he said; “the locksmith had plenty of time to do anything
                    he wanted to do, I daresay, without your being any the wiser.”
                Mrs. Maloney stared at her employer with mingled surprise and alarm.
                “Sure, there wasn't anything for him to stale, your honour, barrin' the birrds
                    and the geranums, and—”
                
                “No, no, I understand. There, that'll do, Mrs. M. Tell me where the man lives,
                    and I'll go and see him.”
                “But you'll have a bit of dinner first, sir?”
                “I'll go and see the locksmith before I have my dinner.”
                He took up his hat as he announced his determination, and walked towards the
                    door.
                “The man's address, Mrs. M?”
                The Irishwoman directed him to a small street at the back of St. Bride's Church,
                    and thither Mr. Robert Audley quietly strolled, through the miry slush which
                    simple Londoners call snow.
                He found the locksmith, and, at the sacrifice of the crown of his hat, contrived
                    to enter the low narrow doorway of a little open shop. A jet of gas was flaring
                    in the unglazed window, and there was a very merry party in the little room
                    behind the shop; but no one responded to Robert's “Hulloa!” The reason of this
                    was sufficiently obvious. The merry party was so much absorbed in its own
                    merriment as to be deaf to all 
                        com-
                        common
                     mon-place summonses from the outer
                    world; and it was only when Robert, advancing further into the cavernous little
                    shop, made so bold as to open the half-glass door which separated him from the
                    merry-makers, that he succeeded in obtaining their attention.
                A very jovial picture of the Teniers school was presented to Mr. Robert Audley
                    upon the opening of this door.
                The locksmith, with his wife and family, and two or three droppers-in of the
                    female sex, were clustered about a table, which was adorned by two bottles: not
                    vulgar bottles of that colourless extract of the juniper berry, much affected by
                    the masses; but of bonâ fide port and
                    sherry—fiercely strong sherry, which left a fiery taste in the mouth; nut-brown
                    sherry—rather unnaturally brown, if anything—and fine old port; no sickly
                    vintage, faded and thin from excessive age; but a rich, full-bodied wine, sweet
                    and substantial, and high coloured.
                The locksmith was speaking as Robert Audley opened the door.
                
                “And with that,” he said, “she walked off, as graceful as you please.”
                The whole party was thrown into confusion by the appearance of Mr. Audley; but it
                    was to be observed that the locksmith was more embarrassed than his companions.
                    He set down his glass so hurriedly, that he spilt his wine, and wiped his mouth
                    nervously with the back of his dirty hand.
                “You called at my chambers to-day,” Robert said, quietly. “Don't let me disturb
                    you, ladies.” This to the droppers-in. “You called at my chambers to-day, Mr.
                    White, and—”
                The man interrupted him.
                “I hope, sir, you will be so good as to look over the mistake,” he stammered.
                    “I'm sure, sir, I'm very sorry it should have occurred. I was sent for to
                    another gentleman's chambers, Mr. Aulwin, in Garden-court; and the name slipped
                    my memory; and havin' done odd jobs before for you, I thought it must be you as
                    wanted me to-day; and I called at Mrs. Maloney's for the key accordin'; but
                    directly I see the locks in your chambers, I
                    says to myself, ‘the gentleman's locks ain't out of order; the gentleman don't
                    want all his locks repaired.’”
                “But you stayed half an hour.”
                “Yes, sir; for there was one lock out of order—the door nighest the
                    staircase—and I took it off and cleaned it, and put it on again. I won't charge
                    you nothin' for the job, and I hope as you'll be so good as to look over the
                    mistake as has occurred, which I've been in business thirteen years come July,
                    and—”
                “Nothing of this kind ever happened before, I suppose,” said Robert, gravely.
                    “No, it's altogether a singular kind of business, not likely to come about every
                    day. You've been enjoying yourself this evening, I see, Mr. White. You've done a
                    good stroke of work to-day, I'll wager—made a lucky hit, and you're what you
                    call ‘standing treat,’ eh?”
                Robert Audley looked straight into the man's dingy face as he spoke. The
                    locksmith was not a bad-looking fellow, and there was nothing that he need have
                    been ashamed of in his face, except the dirt,
                    and that, as Hamlet's mother says, “is common;” but in spite of this, Mr.
                    White's eyelids dropped under the young barrister's calm scrutiny, and he
                    stammered out some apologetic sort of speech about his “missus,” and his missus'
                    neighbours, and port wine and sherry wine, with as much confusion as if he, an
                    honest mechanic in a free country, were called upon to excuse himself to Mr.
                    Robert Audley for being caught in the act of enjoying himself in his own
                    parlour.
                Robert cut him short with a careless nod.
                “Pray don't apologise,” he said; “I like to see people enjoy themselves. Good
                    night, Mr. White—good night, ladies.”
                He lifted his hat to “the missus,” and the missus's neighbors, who were much
                    fascinated by his easy manner and his handsome face, and left the shop.
                “And so,” he muttered to himself as he went back to his chambers, “‘with that she
                    walked off as graceful as you please.’ Who was it that walked off? and what was
                    the story which the locksmith was telling when I interrupted him at that sentence? Oh, George Talboys, George Talboys, am
                    I ever to come any nearer to the secret of your fate? Am I coming nearer to it
                    now, slowly but surely? Is the radius to grow narrower day by day, until it
                    draws a dark circle around the home of those I love? How is it all to end?”
                He sighed wearily as he walked slowly back across the flagged quadrangles in the
                    Temple to his own solitary chambers.
                Mrs. Maloney had prepared for him that bachelor's dinner which, however excellent
                    and nutritious in itself, has no claim to the special charm of novelty. She had
                    cooked for him a mutton chop, which was soddening itself between two plates upon
                    the little table near the fire.
                Robert Audley sighed as he sat down to the familiar meal; remembering his uncle's
                    cook with a fond, regretful sorrow.
                “Her cutlets à la Maintenon made mutton seem more than mutton; a sublimated meat
                    that could scarcely have grown upon any mundane sheep,” he murmured, sentimentally, “and Mrs. Maloney's chops
                    are apt to be tough; but such is life—what does it matter?”
                He pushed away his plate impatiently after eating a few mouthfuls.
                “I have never eaten a good dinner at this table since I lost George Talboys,” he
                    said. “The place seems as gloomy as if the poor fellow had died in the next
                    room, and had never been taken away to be buried. How long ago that September
                    afternoon appears as I look back at it—that September afternoon upon which I
                    parted with him alive and well; and lost him as suddenly and unaccountably as if
                    a trap-door had opened in the solid earth, and let him through to the
                    Antipodes!”
            
            END OF VOL. 1
            BRADBURY AND EVANS PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.
        
    
