
     ----CITATION----
        Malet, Lucas (1852-1931). The Carissima. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 417 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (07-February-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7033
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE CARISSIMA 
                    A MODERN GROTESQUE
                
                BY LUCAS MALET AUTHOR OF “THE WAGES OF SIN” “COLONEL
                    ENDERBY'S WIFE” ETC. ETC.
                
                    METHUEN & CO.
                        36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
                    LONDON
                
                1896
            
            
                
                NOTE
                THIS story was originally named “The Power of the Dog.” Last year my
                    attention was called to the fact that this title had been appropriated. I
                    altered the name of my story to that which it now bears. I have, however,
                    retained the phrase in Leversedge's letter in the last chapter; which, I may
                    add, was written and submitted to Messrs. Methuen & Co. long before I had
                    heard of book now bearing the title I had originally chosen.
                
                    LUCAS MALET.
                    KENSINGTON, W., August 1896.
                
            
            
                EPIGRAPH
                
                    
                        
                            
                                “We are no other than a moving row
                                Of Magic Shadow-shapes that come and go
                                Round with the Sun-illumined Lantern held
                                In Midnight by the Master of the Show;
                            
                            
                                But helpless Pieces of the Game He plays
                                Upon this Chequer-board of Nights and Days;
                                Hither and thither moves, and checks, and slays,
                                And one by one back in the Closet lays.”
                            
                        
                        OMAR KHAYYAM.
                    
                
            
            
            
                THE CARISSIMA
                PROLOGUE
                ANTONY HAMMOND told me this story one wet afternoon sitting in the
                    smoking-room of a certain country-house. Everyone else had gone out, regardless
                    of weather, to tramp across the sodden park, walk down to the home farm, or up
                    to the rectory. I observe, when it rains hard some members of a house-party are
                    invariably taken up to tea at the rectory. But neither the plashy grass, nor the
                    manorial pig-styes, nor the clerical teapot seemed to exercise any wild
                    fascination over us; so, with an agreeable conviction of having chosen the
                    better, and dryer, part, we remained 
                        a
                        at
                     home.
                Hammond recounts very well when he is in the vein. He also possesses the gift of
                    pronouncing a larger number of words in a limited space of time than any other
                    person of my acquaintance. We had talked of many things. Discussed that chief wonder of the age, the modern young woman; who
                    differs as much from all bygone types of womanhood as our modern modes of
                    locomotion do from those obtaining in the days of Abraham.
                “For,” said Hammond, “broadly speaking, is she not to her mother, as is the
                    Orient Express to a string of camels?”
                He added that, compared with even a superficial comprehension of the intricacies
                    of her thought and conduct, the mastery of the Chinese language would supply an
                    airy pastime, the study of the higher mathematics a gentle sedative.
                “You may take her,” he declared, “as a single or, in conjunction with man as a
                    double, acrostic. In either case she is past finding out.”
                Then the conversation wandered on to the heroines of modern fiction; and brought
                    up, by chance, against the lady to whom is given the title-rôle in that penetrating little tale of Daudet's, La
                        menteuse.
                Here Hammond became didactic.
            
        
        
            
                
                PHASE FIRST
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    FEW persons (Hammond said) are truthful; yet the complete and
                        experienced liar is rare. A really great lie, whether acted or spoken, is
                        the supreme expression of a nature. It is an inspiration of genius. I make
                        my bow to it with my hand on my heart. And all this reminds me of a man whom
                        I once knew called Leversedge—Constantine Leversedge. For although he told,
                        consciously at all events, no lies, he was intimately involved in the
                        telling of one of a really superior order. And a young lady, eminently
                        distinguished for the ripeness of her modernity, was involved in it
                        also.
                    I met Leversedge in London once in a way. Then he would disappear for an
                        indefinite period, to return—very long and lean and brown—furnished with a
                        vocabulary floridly rich in abusive epithets applicable to South African
                        society. He had business, as I understood,
                        in those savage regions. And it must have proved remunerative, for he gave
                        an increasing impression of prosperity each time I saw him. But whether it
                        consisted in exploiting the aborigines, digging for diamonds, pulling the
                        tail feathers out of live ostriches, or undertaking dental operations on
                        dead elephants, I never exactly knew. He grew rich, voilà tout; and he really was a charming fellow, though his
                        appearance always seemed to imply the near neighbourhood of a horse—a thing
                        which I, personally, find slightly irritating. For I have no drop of the
                        blood of the Centaurs in me. I gravitate naturally, as you may say, to my
                        own feet or to wheels. So that a being half equine, as are so many of the
                        members of our great race, produces in me an annoying sense of the
                        limitations of my opportunities.
                    This, however, is a digression.—It remains that this man Leversedge had just
                        that hint of a stoop about the shoulders, indolent fashion of moving, and
                        slightly distracted look across the eyes and brow which riding-men so
                        frequently have. He had more legs, too, than are absolutely requisite in
                        civilised society. I may mention, in passing, that he was delightfully
                        clean; that his almost black beard was neatly trimmed, while his moustache,
                        which was a quite bright brown, stood rather gallantly away from it. Had
                            you arrayed him in white ruff and
                        trunk-hose he would have made an admirable Elizabethan adventurer. Pardon
                        these details, since it is necessary to the appreciation of what follows
                        that you should see the creature “in his habit as he lived.”
                    The last time I met Leversedge was at a large summer hotel on the Lake of
                        Geneva. It is a very commendable dwelling-place,—according to the style of
                        such things,—situated in several acres of garden that stretch down to and
                        along the lake shore. I abstain from localising it more particularly, for
                        Leversedge's is not a name to conjure with there. Quite unintentionally he
                        spoilt the manager's season for him. Even the British and American tourist,
                        matter-of-fact animal though it is, has its superstitions. My friend's
                        eccentric action aroused them, aroused them to the extent of making the
                        owners of them run away. For he caused life suddenly to dip to the tragic
                        level—a thoughtless thing to do at any time, an almost criminal one at a
                        summer hotel.
                    But I am getting the cart before the horse. All that came later. Immediately,
                        Leversedge appeared to be in the very heyday of success. He had attained. He
                        had made his pile. The elephants and ostriches and South Africans, white or
                        black, had receded into the Great Inane. The diamonds had receded also,
                        saving and excepting the considerable store of those delightful stones that he had brought along with
                        him, and destined for the delectation and adornment of his bride. For
                        Leversedge's tastes were innocent, innocent to the point of matrimony. He
                        was engaged to a young lady, by name Miss Charlotte Perry,—playfully
                        addressed by her father in moments of expansion as “carissima Carlotta mia,”—had been so engaged for quite a
                        number of years. Now he was about to marry her, a proceeding which, subject
                        to the fact of a protracted engagement, really touches the high-water mark
                        of innocence, doesn't it?
                    The Perry parents, I regret to say, struck me as leaving something to be
                        desired. Leversedge had offered to take the best suite of rooms in the house
                        for them; and they had, perhaps consequently, shown considerable alacrity in
                        coming this far to meet him on his homeward journey.
                    They were a rather dusty-looking couple. He a voracious, adhesive little rat
                        of a man, with a lop-sided way of walking, a coat-collar insufficiently
                        brushed at all times, and a waistcoat to match after meals. He smiled upon
                        one ravenously; and told many stock stories of witty bishops and
                        Conservative politicians, giving his audience to understand he had himself
                        invariably acted Horatio to the Hamlet of these good and great men. Mrs.
                        Perry was in another style. Dusty too, but round-about and kindly; of an expansive, middle-class figure, and a
                        countenance resembling a moon on a clock-face. A suburban moon, be it added,
                        of the very honestest sort, wholly unsymbolic of the worship of Artemis or
                        Astarte, without phases, standing ever at a guileless full. But if in
                        outward aspect this worthy pair was divided, in sentiment they were one—in
                        as far, at least, as sentiment related to their fair daughter; for they
                        reverenced her as the supreme expression of their highest selves. And there
                        was something genuinely touching in the whole-heartedness of that reverence,
                        in their whispered confidences regarding the effect of her beauty, the
                        widespread recognition of her talents, the brilliancy of her social
                        successes. If one might accept the witness of these good parents, the life
                        of London, intellectual and artistic, pulsed with profounder colour and
                        thrilled into more vigorous effort when Charlotte Perry passed along.
                        According to them, Walter Creighton extolled her pastels, and even that
                        harshest of critics, James Colthurst, praised her draughtsmanship; while
                        Zeltingen had been heard, more than once, to protest that if she played in
                        public his reputation as a pianist would be completely gone. At Adolphus
                        Carr's Wednesday afternoons she was a more than welcome guest; and Mrs.
                        Septimus Mertyns, the wife of the distinguished Q.C., whose drawing-rooms in
                        Portland Place so perpetually reverberate to
                        the roarings of lions young and old, could not be happy without her. Given
                        dearest Lotta to help, she is reported to have declared herself equal to
                        entertaining the Immortals of all ages—without distinction of race, creed,
                        or sex—and, what is more, of making a success of the affair.
                    From all of which it may assuredly be gathered that this accomplished young
                        lady had been designed by nature to fill some notable niche in contemporary
                        history. And that provoked a little inward questioning as to whether she was
                        equally designed by nature to be the contented wife of Constantine
                        Leversedge, with his distracted brow, and long legs, and probably very
                        ordinary, primitive view of the marital relation.
                    The thermometer, I remember, stood rather persistently at 90° in the shade
                        that summer,—a condition of the atmosphere which disposes one to the
                        exclusive observation of objects in the immediate foreground, easily within
                        the range of vision, that can be contemplated without the breaking of a
                        decent repose, without the unlovely heatings of physical exertion. And
                        therefore, I suppose, I began to observe the Perry-Leversedge drama rather
                        closely. It was under my hand. Daily it was round about me. At first the
                        action was languid. Suddenly unexpected elements introduced themselves into
                        the piece.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER II
                    IT happened thus. Leversedge was off duty. He and I were alone,
                        drinking our coffee after luncheon in the central hall of the hotel. It is a
                        very good hall, lighted from above by a glass roof. Galleries—over the white
                        balustrades of which waiters and chambermaids, valets, couriers, and
                        ladies'-maids lean half the day, watching the antics of their social
                        superiors down below—open upon it right up to the fourth floor.
                    The Perrys had gone out to luncheon. Mrs. Septimus Mertyns had just announced
                        her advent at a popular hostelry in the neighbouring little town—half a mile
                        away down a scorching boulevard, very inadequately shaded by rows of small,
                        round-headed mountain-ash trees. You may reach the place—the Perrys had done
                        so—by means of an electric tram of phenomenal joltiness, the whirrings and
                        hootings of which distract the sensitive ear from 7 A.M. to 9.30 at
                        night.
                    Mrs. Mertyns, like the highland chieftain of legend or heroic story, had
                        brought her tail along with her. A truly
                        resplendent tail, socially and intellectually considered; dazzling to the
                        eyes of Perry père et mère, and even, in a
                        degree, to the more experienced orbs of the Carissima also. For it counted a
                        clever peeress who does not get on well with her stupid peer; pretty Mrs.
                        Neville St. John, some time Miss Hattie White, an American. (She gets on
                        equally well with St. John or without him, so there is no indiscretion in
                        naming names. Upon the present occasion, I may remark, she was getting on
                        quite capitally without him.) Walter Creighton, A.R.A., was also of the
                        party; and Percy Gerrard, the well-known editor of the Present
                            Day. Lastly, Septimus Mertyns himself, looking bleak and
                        slightly harried. When his wife clearly is enjoying herself, it is
                        reprehensibly weak of a husband to look harried. Bleak he must look, I
                        suppose, poor dear, if nature has fashioned him that way,—but let that pass.
                        The Perrys were bidden to meet the resplendent tail, and the Perrys
                        went.
                    Leversedge did not go. Being a very true gentleman, he assumed that he had
                        not cared to go. “It was too hot,”—too hot, forsooth, for this sun-grilled
                        being just home from the tropics! Whether he had not been included in the
                        invitation, or whether Miss Perry had desired him to refuse it, offered food
                        for speculation. I could not determine. But I observed that he was a
                            trifle low in his mind as he sat in
                        that cool hall, among the palms and indiarubber plants, smoking the
                        cigarette of peace and drinking black coffee. His talk ran on serious
                        subjects.
                    The irruption of some lively children from out of the lift, accompanied by
                        French bonnes and English governesses
                        galore, caused a pause in our conversation. Leversedge was very fond of
                        children, a wholesome trait in any man's character. He watched them, and as
                        their cries and chatter died away out of doors in the garden he asked
                        me—
                    “Do you believe in devils?”
                    Now, this, if you like, was serious. It almost amounted to being fundamental;
                        and I own to an inherent distaste for formulating opinions upon
                        fundamentals.
                    “A devil, Leversedge,” I therefore playfully protested. “Don't let us
                        approach the question in the plural number. It becomes too complicated, too
                        crowded. One devil,—one surely is enough for all practical purposes? In the
                        singular he is precious, though archaic; and, if only for dramatic and
                        literary reasons, I don't think we can afford to abolish him. He supplies
                        the dash of absolute black, you see, which brings out all the delicate
                        lights and shades of the moral picture. Without him the nuances would lose their values. No, we must
                        keep one. He may be of any size you like,—quite a small one if you wish it,
                        a veritable little ewe-lamb of a devil. But
                        for the sake of his colour,—I am getting slightly mixed as to sex, I fancy,
                        but my knowledge of the sheepfold is scarcely professional,—well, of
                            its colour, which is black, you understand, uncompromising
                        black, I implore that one, just one, may be spared to us.”
                    Leversedge smiled upon me, but in a spirit of gentle endurance. His
                        pensiveness remained, unabated.
                    “I was not talking of property devils,” he answered; “and they would hardly
                        serve your purpose anyhow; for they seem to make them red nowadays, mostly,
                        not black. I saw Faust last time I was home, at the Lyceum;
                        but I didn't think the scarlet variety patronised there amounted to very
                        much. They were altogether too solid. You know, at a push you could do for
                        them,—shoot, or stick, or strangle them. You must be an uncommonly poor lot
                        if you find things frightening that you could strangle.”
                    He smoked reflectively for a little.
                    “No,” he went on; “I—I mean you—I mean nobody's afraid of what they can
                        strangle. Even when I was home last, I could have supplied the management
                        with the ground-plan of a much nastier species of fiend than those hairy,
                        pudding-bodied creatures. And now—”
                    Leversedge's voice caught with a click in his throat. He sprang to his feet,
                        making a violent movement of both hands, as
                        though forcing something heavy and clinging off his lap.
                    “Get down,” he cried, “you brute,—you hideous brute.”
                    This was startling. But there are incidents which, while provoking curiosity
                        almost to bursting-point, have about them a gravity—a gravity born of their
                        very absurdity sometimes—which would effectually prevent any but a
                        double-soled idiot making comments or asking questions. I did neither.
                        Leversedge had just spoken of people being frightened; and that more
                        sympathetically than I should have expected, for he was himself certainly no
                        poltroon. He was a quiet, steady, sensible fellow, the kind of man to whom
                        women turn instinctively, as to a life-belt or lightning-conductor, in an
                        emergency. Yet at this moment his face expressed fear, and more than fear.
                        It expressed downright terror and uncontrollable disgust.
                    Really he presented a very distressing spectacle. His mouth was slightly
                        open, while his lips curled back queerly from his teeth. It may sound
                        ridiculous, but I could almost swear that his hair bristled. His action had
                        been too rapid for premeditation. I never doubted it was wholly spontaneous
                        and honest. Still, I knew—knew as positively as I have ever known anything
                        in my life—that nothing, animate or inanimate, had been reposing upon his excellently white, flannel trousers. Knew,
                        equally well, that nothing had slipped from off them on to the inlaid marble
                        floor as, beating his knees, he lunged up out of the chair beside me.
                    We had only just finished our coffee. The tray and a flacon of cognac still stood on the table before me. After
                        about a minute Leversedge laid hold of the flacon, and emptied half its contents into one of the dirty
                        coffee-cups. He gulped down the brandy, and wiped his moustache and beard—as
                        well as he could, for his teeth were chattering and his hands shaking, like
                        those of a person in the cold fit of a fever. Then he walked up and down the
                        length of the hall once or twice, fished a cane stool out from under one of
                        the seats, came back and sat down beside me again.
                    He had entered into possession of himself. But he was still shaking. Very
                        carefully he placed the stool on his knees, wrong way about, so that the
                        four legs of it stuck up into the air, took out his cigarette case, and
                        lighted another cigarette.
                    “I beg your pardon, Hammond,” he said, as he did so. “This has not happened
                        to me for some time, and it took me by surprise. I don't make such a fool of
                        myself when I am in training—when I'm habitually hag-ridden. But I've been
                        pretty free of all that lately.”
                    He looked round, doing his best to smile, though his lips twitched oddly.
                    
                    “Now, do you believe in devils?” he asked. “Real ones, I mean,—not property
                        devils.”
                    “I believe in liver, my dear friend,” I asserted. “And still more sincerely
                        do I believe in nerves, which are superior in the production of torments to
                        all the Satans generated by the unhealthy imaginations of all ascetics,
                        Oriental and mediæval, put together.”
                    “And still more readily do you believe in drink, I suppose,” he said quietly.
                        “Only let me remind you, the monsters that haunt drunkards do it openly in
                        broad day. You can see them, so they tell me, as plain as your hand. Now, I
                        only see this beast at night, when the lights are out and there's no moon.
                        And even then only—only part of it. By day I only feel it.”
                    Leversedge shook again all over, while he slowly slid the cane stool up and
                        down his lap.
                    “When I begin to see it in the light, I shall have sense enough left to look
                        for the nearest lunatic asylum, I hope. Or put an end to the business in an
                        even more effectual manner.”
                    What did I do? Naturally I did what everyone does, except a very few women—on
                        whom may heaven rain all blessings, they richly deserve such, faithful
                        souls!—what everyone, I say, does when a fellow-creature is in anly vital
                        need of help, or advice, or encouragement. I expended myself in ineptitudes,
                        in palpable platitudes, in sieve-like
                        commonplaces of consolation, through which the comfort ran with the silliest
                        little tinkle imaginable.
                    Poor Leversedge listened in commendable patience.
                    “You're extremely kind,” he said; “but this is nothing new. It's been going
                        on for ever so long. I've tried drugs, and dieting, and doctors—they make no
                        difference. I hoped perhaps coming back to Europe and the old life—”
                    He paused, still sliding the stool backwards and forwards in that
                        unpleasantly suggestive manner.
                    “Smoke, please,” he said. “Do you mind my telling you? I've never told
                        anybody before. The best and the worst things that happen to you, you keep
                        to yourself as a rule, you know. But—but—I'm rather knocked about by what's
                        just occurred. I should be glad to have you know.”
                    Again the stool travelled backwards and forwards. Then Leversedge said
                        slowly—
                    “It began like this—I had been riding for a couple of days expecting to
                        strike a mining camp where I had business. But I'd fever on me, and got out
                        of my course. Do you know the Veldt, Hammond? Of course you don't—the
                        endless roll of the treeless land, under the dome of the thick, tropic sky,
                        both alike grey with the heavy, deadly heat. It gets you with a sort of
                        despair. You look at it as you might look at a sentence of penal servitude for life. The monotony takes the heart
                        out of you—that, and the heat, the killing heat. At last the hazy
                        warming-pan of a sun went down, and the dark came quick, and I muddled on
                        pretty well done. And, from the top of one of those everlasting bare ridges,
                        I saw the white tilts of a couple of waggons showing up about half a mile
                        away. It wasn't my camp, but it meant something in the way of rest and help.
                        At least, I thought so at first, though there was no smoke, and the whole
                        place seemed unaccountably quiet, save for the yapping of a dog.”
                    Leversedge looked round at me, and spoke as though forcing himself.
                    “I needn't go into details, Hammond,” he said. “That camp was dead. Even in
                        the night, which decently hides a good deal, it was a ghastly place. I
                        suppose they'd all died of thirst, they and the oxen. And I had fever on me.
                        I shall never know quite all I did see. But in one of the waggons I made out
                        a dead woman. Underneath it a dog was tied, a small, yellowish cur, the only
                        thing left alive, and it yapped. And—and—there had been a child in the
                        waggon, a little baby-child—and I suppose it had lived longer than the rest.
                        And it must have crawled out over the tail of the waggon, and fallen close
                        to the dog. It lay there, a white bundle of a thing in the gloom. And the
                        dog squatted with its forepaws out across the child's chest, its eyes showing green, straining at the rope which tied
                        it. And bending down from the saddle—I was too weak with fever to get off—my
                        horse, too, would have scared, it was half mad at—well—at the death all
                        round it, and the stench—I saw that the brute had torn the child's
                        throat—for—for the blood.”
                    He paused a moment. And when he continued, it struck me through all the
                        absorbing terror of his story that Leversedge was one of those persons who,
                        even under severest stress of adverse circumstance, try to be just.
                    “I know it was starving,” he said, “and—which is worse—it was parched. Men
                        have done as bad things before now at sea,—only, I tell you, Hammond, I had
                        to kill that dog. I could not afford to squander cartridges, but I could
                        spare a couple. Twice I tried it, but my revolver was heavy, and I was
                        altogether played out, so that my hand shook. The bullets only cut the rope.
                        And then—then—I was taken with a sort of panic, Hammond. I cleared out of
                        that awful place; and the dog came too.”
                    His voice sank; and while one hand still held the upturned legs of the stool,
                        he leant sideways, and with the other made a slow level motion as of
                        something passing across the floor.
                    “It kept pace with my horse. Those dreadful eyes looking up at me—two
                        yellowish-green discs galloping beside me,
                        dropping behind for a minute or two, coming up with me again, mile after
                        mile, all through the night. And the night seemed years and years long—”
                    I am afraid it is true, even with the most civilised of us, that the appetite
                        for horror grows with what it feeds on. I am naturally a soft man, a dweller
                        in tents, of the Jacob rather than the Esau order of mind. I detest
                        adventures, save of the drawing-room and five-o'clock-tea sort. Yet, as
                        Leversedge ceased speaking, I was sensible of an unholy craving for more of
                        these horrors. And, when his silence grew somewhat prolonged, I found
                        myself—to my shame—saying greedily—
                    “Well, my dear fellow, well? That's not the end?”
                    Leversedge turned to me with that pathetically patient smile of his. Did I
                        perceive, though, the faintest flavour of contempt behind it? The contempt
                        of Esau, the fighter and hunter, the dealer in primitive passions, for the
                        smooth-handed Jacob of the club, and the pavement, and the silver
                        teapot?
                    “No, that's not the end,” he answered at last; “that's only the beginning.—I
                        need not bother you with the whole set out. I was pretty bad for some time;
                        though I stumbled across my own people next day, and we struck a vein of
                        luck at our mining place, and the money was rolling in hand over hand. It seemed as if the curse and the
                        gold had come together.—As soon as I could move I went down to the coast and
                        got away to sea. And I thought it was all right. We were a couple of degrees
                        south of the equator, and there had been a bad electric storm which had made
                        us all feel pretty jumpy; but the rain had come down and the weather was
                        mending. Everyone else had gone under cover—some music and singing was going
                        on in the saloon—and I was standing forward against the bulwarks with the
                        doctor. He was a nice little chap—tremendously keen on travel and on natural
                        history. He died of fever a year and a half afterwards, I heard, exploring
                        somewhere up the Congo. I've always been sorry he dropped out. There was
                        good stuff in him.—But about this affair of mine. It must have been about
                        half-past eight, and it was very close notwithstanding the rain; and very
                        dark, but for the glimmer through the slats of the saloon shutters. And
                        right along the length of the promenade deck, straight at us, came a dog,
                        just as hard as it could lick. I only saw its eyes,—two glowing green discs
                        a trifle bigger than a sixpence,—but there was no mistaking what they were.
                        They travelled along about nine inches above the level of the deck,
                        sometimes higher, sometimes lower, as the thing galloped. It turned, just
                        short of us, round the end of the saloon, and went, as I supposed, down the
                            other side of the deck. I spoke to the
                        doctor about it—I hoped there might be a dog on board I did not know of—but
                        he hadn't observed anything. Then the eyes came racing up our side of the
                        deck again. I pointed them out to him, still he didn't see. Still I had a
                        sort of hope about me, so I knelt down and whistled the brute to come to
                        me.”
                    Leversedge grasped the up-turned legs of the stool, and leaned forward,
                        looking across to where the great glass doors of the hall opened on to the
                        buff of the carriage-drive, and the dancing green of the garden in blaze of
                        sunshine beyond.
                    “It came,” he said. “The eyes were close to me,—quite close. People are
                        sentimental on board ship, you know. A girl was singing ‘Annie Laurie’ in
                        the saloon. She'd an uncommonly pretty voice. I heard the words of the song
                        quite distinctly; that and the swish of the water against the side, and the
                        steady pounding of the engines, as I put out my hand to pat the beast's
                        head. And my hand went down, clean down, within a couple of inches of those
                        eyes, where its neck should have been—where its neck was—I swear it
                        was—clean down on to the wet planks of the deck.—Then I knew something very
                        evil was upon me. In that dead camp I had seen the Thing-too-Much.—For there
                        is a Thing-too-Much, you know, in nature, in men and women, in what happens.
                        And you may tell by the look in a person's face whether they've seen it. They mayn't be cowards; most fairly
                        healthy people have really plenty of pluck. Only, I tell you what takes it
                        out of the bravest. They have seen Fear,—Fear itself, that there's no
                        getting over or arguing about. They've been ‘to the end of the world and
                        looked over the wall,’—they got to the place from which there's no way
                        out.—Oh! I say,” he cried suddenly, “here comes Charlotte—Miss Perry—and the
                        others.”
                    Then Leversedge, “the man who had gone to the end of the world and looked
                        over the wall,” glanced at the flacon of
                        cognac; thought better of it, got up and went across the hall to meet the
                        returning revellers.
                    I am fond of contrasts. At that moment I had reason to congratulate myself.
                        Here promised to be contrasts of a high order of interest.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER III
                    T0 most of us foggy islanders 90° in the shade takes the gilt off
                        the ginger-bread even in so delectable a matter as a luncheon to meet a
                        resplendent tail. Perry père et mère were
                        distinctly demoralised in aspect, and even the Carissima was not quite up to
                        her usual level.
                    Miss Perry looked warm, which was a pity, for it was not her rôle to look warm. It was her rôle to remind you of sunrise rather than
                        sunset, to be virginal, flower-like, I might say dewy. She was tall; and our
                        grandmothers, I think, would have described her appearance as elegant, the
                        more so that her shoulders sloped and that her features were somewhat
                        indefinite. For truly, in her the paternal rat and the maternal clock-moon
                        had mixed themselves to the point of uncertainty, the roundness of the one
                        putting a perpetual check upon the sharpness of the other, and vice versâ—two affirmatives going to make a
                        negative, if one may reverse the rule laid down in our English grammar. Her
                        colouring, on the other hand, was quite
                        definite. It was red and brown. I have heard it called Italian, or
                        gipsy-like. A budding poet once asserted, in dedicatory verse, that her
                        complexion reminded him of split pomegranates. But then, poets pay odd
                        compliments—specially young ones. Miss Perry's hair was brown, and abundant.
                        Her eyes were also brown, and the whites of them very white. They were
                        extremely pretty eyes; not large and placed flatly in her head, but dewy,
                        almost always dewy, and full of appeal.
                    In short, she was unquestionably an uncommonly attractive young lady,
                        particularly at a little distance. She needed to be focussed—but nearly
                        every pretty woman, like every good picture, needs that! And she dressed
                        well, though her clothes needed focussing too. At close quarters they had an
                        unhappy knack of looking new without looking quite fresh. On the day in
                        case, I remember, she wore a brown linen suit with a wealth of primrose silk
                        vest to it. Both were smart, but slightly tired—perhaps from long sojourn in
                        her boxes. The yellow roses in her large, black-lace hat were tired also.
                        But I own to a sense of shame in having noticed these defects. I felt it was
                        unhandsome of me, since she advanced upon her lover with a really
                        captivating air of appeal and anxiety.
                    A pathetic note had intruded itself into my
                        friendship for Constantine Leversedge during the last half-hour. If any
                        pleasure was going, he had a prescriptive right to it. He was owed
                        compensation. Solitude à deux is, of
                        course, the very seat of bliss in matters of the affections; I therefore did
                        my possible to procure him a tête-à-tête
                        with the fair Charlotte by concentrating the attention of her parents upon
                        myself. I succeeded. Mrs. Perry, dear good woman, had subsided on to the
                        settee in the centre of the hall, too extenuated by the heat to be otherwise
                        than perfectly docile. Mr. Perry was active, I might almost say rampageous;
                        he was thirsting to communicate impressions, triumphs. In the capacity of an
                        audience I was therefore acceptable to him.
                    “Well, well, good afternoon to you, Mr. Hammond,” he cried. “You see, we have
                        returned. Not all the darts of the sun-god—torrid sunshine to-day, I'm sure,
                        really torrid—could detain us any longer. Even in the gayest scenes, the
                        most intellectually stimulating society, the heart of the true woman”—Mr.
                        Perry nodded playfully over his shoulder in the direction of Miss Charlotte
                        and Leversedge—“draws her back to ‘the kindred points of heaven and home.’
                        Hotel and heaven and home, as I may say in this case; which is accurate in
                        fact, and pleasing to the ear as alliteration, eh, Mr. Hammond? Yes, thank
                            you, we have had a charming party,
                        really a delightful party,—haven't we, Mamma?”
                    This to Mrs. Perry, flushed as a moon in the early stages of an eclipse,
                        vainly courting coolness by untying her bonnet strings and spreading out her
                        fingers upon her knees, as she sat upon the settee.
                    “Delightful,” he continued, without waiting for an answer; “and most
                        gratifying to us as—as the authors of her days, as I may say—wasn't it,
                        Mamma?—to witness the high estimation in which our dear Charlotte is held by
                        really superior persons. Nothing new, of course,”—Mr. Perry said this with a
                        smile which came as near being haughty as the fashion of a rat
                        permitted;—“but testimony to an old truth, if that truth be pleasing, is
                        always welcome. And she sustained her part in the conversation victoriously.
                        I do not exaggerate when I employ the word victorious. Really there are
                        moments when my daughter's knowledge of all subjects that come under
                        discussion almost staggers me. It is encyclopædic, I'm sure,—positively
                        encyclopædic. I listen and admire and— 
                            Still the wonder grows
                            How one small head can carry all she knows.”
                        
                    (For under excitement it was Mr. Perry's habit thus to gather in the British
                        poets by some more or less hybrid quotation. I have heard with trembling, that he has been known to recite whole
                        poems of a patriotic character—“The Charge of the Light Brigade,” for
                        instance, or “God bless the Prince of Wales”—during the lapses of active
                        interest—these are not infrequent, I understand—at local meetings of the
                        Primrose League.)
                    “Mamma, I am sure, will endorse my statement,” he added. “My daughter in
                        congenial society, among her intellectual equals, is surprising, really
                        surprising.”
                    “Oh yes,” Mrs. Perry said, thus appealed to—“of course everybody was very
                        clever. Mrs. Mertyns' friends always are. And it seemed to me Charlotte
                        talked as cleverly as any of them; at least I understood quite as little of
                        what she meant. And it always shows people are saying what is clever when
                        you can't make out what they mean; don't you think so, Mr. Hammond?”
                    “Unquestionably, my dear lady,” I replied. “An infallible test!”
                    Mr. Perry glanced at me sharply, and then again addressed that unconscious
                        satirist his wife.
                    “You would like to have the lift, my love, and go up to our apartment and
                        rest.—Here, ascenseur, ascenseur!”
                    “I think I will sit still a little first,” Mrs. Perry replied, throwing back
                        her bonnet strings. “Heat is very confusing. Don't you find it so, Mr.
                        Hammond? It quite upsets me. Once or twice
                        at luncheon I turned so faint and giddy I wondered if I could remain at
                        table, which was very awkward for me.”—Mrs. Perry sighed.—“It seems to me
                        clever people, like Charlotte's friends, are so strong,” she said. “They
                        often look delicate, and yet somehow they always seem ready to go anywhere,
                        and do anything, and talk. They never seem overcome with the heat, or the
                        cold either, for that matter. I'm sure it must be very nice to feel
                        like—”
                    “Habit,” broke in Mr. Perry,—“habit—there is a vast amount in that. I declare
                        I hesitate to limit the power of habit. But I wish you had been with us, Mr.
                        Hammond. You would have appreciated the conversation, and no doubt increased
                        its charms—no doubt increased them. One brief passage of arms between my
                        daughter and Mr. Percy Gerrard, upon the place of the imagination in modern
                        realistic fiction, was brilliant, positively brilliant. 
                            And so the wordy battle grew, swelling almost to dissonance;
                            Then broke in laughter, and, with courteous phrase,
                            Sunk back to sweet agreement—this the end.
                         And Mertyns told some very good stories towards the conclusion of
                        lunch. One of the late Earl of Beaconsfield, which was new to me. A
                        first-rate story—not more so than some of my own, but still first-rate. Just
                        remind me, after dinner, my dear, and I'll
                        tell it to Mr. Hammond. It will amuse him.”
                    “Yes, but it seems a pity you couldn't have heard Mr. Mertyns tell it
                        himself; for it seemed to me everybody would have been so glad to see you,
                        Mr. Hammond,” Mrs. Perry said. “They all seemed so surprised to hear you
                        were at this hotel with us. Mrs. St. John said she wondered what on earth
                        you could be doing here, and that she wished so much you would come and tell
                        her.”
                    “Mrs. St. John is a delightful woman, and if she is very good perhaps I will
                        tell her,” I replied.
                    Perplexity obscured Mrs. Perry's countenance as a passing cloud, then she
                        beamed out harvest-moon-wise at me.
                    “Oh,” she said, “I see. Now you're being clever.”
                    “Heaven forbid!” I cried. “I am guilty of much, but, believe me, of that
                        never.”
                    “My dear, I really think we may as well be moving.”—This from Mr. Perry, not
                        without a hint of asperity.—“Ascenseur!
                        Where is that lazy lad? Asleep, I suppose, as usual.—Yes, most kind
                        inquiries after you, I'm sure, Mr. Hammond. The ladies begged you would call
                        upon them. In fact, I suspected,”—he here became very arch,—“I may have been
                        wrong, but I suspected it was thought you were a little remiss in not having
                        done so already. Come, ascenseur,
                            ascenseur, I tell you; don't you hear?”
                    
                    And, receiving no response, he chased away in and out of all probable and
                        improbable doors voraciously seeking the lift-boy.
                    “Mr. Hammond, a legend obtains that you are a lawyer. I hope that it is true,
                        for I stand in great need of an advocate. Constantine is obdurate, he is
                        grasping. Plead my cause with him, pray.”
                    Miss Perry was at my elbow, Leversedge's long, lean, white and grey figure a
                        couple of paces from her to the left. He was watching her, adoring her; and
                        the terror had not yet quite passed out of his face. This was dramatic.
                    Meanwhile Miss Perry's bright and dewy eyes were, I will not say raised to
                        mine, for truth compels me to own our eyes were pretty nearly on a level. I
                        trust I shall not be considered indiscreet if I mention that her lips had a
                        trick of tremulously collecting themselves into what may be described as the
                        sketch of a conceivable kiss before and after speaking. Her voice was of a
                        gentle, toneless quality; while her speech, glib in fact yet apparently full
                        of modest hesitation, caressed one's ear with a delicate hint of deference.
                        For Charlotte Perry had the excellent gift of a deprecatory manner, such as
                        flatters the natural vanity of the masculine heart. You felt she reckoned it
                        a matter of gratitude so fine a creature as your manly self allowed her to
                        look on you and live. Ah! if women knew!
                        Perhaps some of them do, though—worse luck!
                    Anyhow, at that moment, Leversedge's matrimonial intentions appeared to me as
                        little misplaced as such foolish intentions often can be. For even at close
                        quarters Miss Perry was very distinctly engaging. It must be remembered I
                        had just suffered a heavy dose of her parents, and from them she came a
                        sensible relief. Poor young lady! I asked myself of what crimes she could
                        possibly have been guilty in a former state of existence to deserve such
                        parents?
                    “You see this bunch of roses,” she continued; “it is very lovely, isn't it?
                        The scheme of colour is perfect—you feel colour, don't you, Mr. Hammond?
                        These gradations are delicious, from white through those faint flesh tones,
                        rose-saffron, and rose to this heart of passionate crimson. Do not let
                        Constantine coerce me into marring its perfection. Plead for it. You are a
                        poet. Save it, for is it not a poem?”
                    “Is it?” Leversedge said. “Well, then, give me a verse to stick in my
                        buttonhole.”
                    “Ah!” Miss Perry murmured, drawing back.
                    She shut her eyes for an instant and shook her head, putting up one hand with
                        a very pretty gesture of repudiation.
                    “A verse! but the context, Constantine; don't you perceive you would
                        annihilate the context?”
                    
                    “Annihilate the what?” Leversedge asked, in bewilderment. “I only want one of
                        your roses.”
                    Charlotte Perry looked piteously at me.
                    “I cannot comprehend a willingness to mar what is perfect in order to gratify
                        personal desire,” she said. “It is distressing. Is it not almost
                        immoral?”
                    “According to many high authorities all desire, alas! is immoral, my dear
                        young lady,” I replied. “Therefore your wish to preserve your charming
                        nosegay intact may be—I do not assert that it is, I only suggest that it may
                        be—every bit as culpable as Leversedge's very natural wish to convert a
                        portion of it into a favour for his unregenerate buttonhole.”
                    “Do you really mean that? I should have thought harmony was always dearer
                        than discord, preservation than destruction. To me that scheme of colour
                        represents the birth and growth”—Miss Perry's voice sank away, became almost
                        inaudible in refinements of hesitation—“and the eventual, the splendid
                        consummation of some great romance. I told Mr.Gerrard so when he gave me the
                        flowers—”
                    “Oh! Percy Gerrard gave you the flowers?” I cried.
                    The girl did not speak, she only gazed at me, while her lips tremulously
                        formed themselves into that peculiar sketch of a kiss. I don't know how she
                        did it, but undoubtedly she made me feel I
                        had behaved grossly, that I had been amazingly crude and coarse. Then she
                        turned languidly to Leversedge.
                    “Do you still want them, Constantine? You may have them all now,” she
                        said.
                    “Oh, my dear, you're never going to give away your sweet bookay!” Mrs. Perry
                        protested from her post on the settee.
                    And Leversedge stood holding the flowers, bewildered, looking as nearly
                        awkward, indeed, as I had ever seen him look. I am not usually either
                        impulsive or irritable, but I could not quite contain myself.
                    “Ah, you were right, pre-eminently right,” I remarked to Mrs. Perry. “Your
                        daughter is among the very clever persons. She says things of which it is
                        wholly difficult to arrive at the meaning.”
                    “Ascenseur—I have him at last. Run him to
                        earth,” cried Mr. Perry, emerging from a side door, in what may be described
                        as a jovial, sporting, fine old English mood. “Ah ha! run him to earth at
                        last. Now, my ladies, to horse, to horse, boot and saddle, up and away!—eh,
                        Mamma?—up and away!”
                    Leversedge followed the family party, and leaned his long arms on the gilded
                        gates of the lift.
                    “Mayn't I come up with you, Charlotte?” he asked. “I've hardly seen you all
                        day.”
                    Miss Perry's expression was still that of one who has been pained, mistaken, really very much pained.
                    “I am so tired,” she answered gently. “And yet I must practise. I—I am
                        distressed, Constantine, but I think perhaps—I must practise, you see—I had
                        better be alone.”
                    The sleepy boy was working the steel rope, and with a click the painted cage
                        began to move up on its greased steel pillar.
                    “I won't be in the way. I'll sit quite still. I swear I won't try to make you
                        talk,” Leversedge pleaded.
                    But Charlotte Perry sank upon the narrow red velvet seat beside her mother,
                        shaking her head.
                    “Not just now, dear Constantine—please not just now,” she plaintively
                        said.
                    Leversedge sauntered back across the hall thoughtfully, dropped the discarded
                        roses on a little round table, rubbing his hands together as though he
                        wished to get the feeling of their stems out of his fingers.
                    “I think I want exercise, perhaps,” he said to me.—Leversedge had a very
                        well-bred instinct of always trying to carry things off.—“One leads an
                        abominably lazy life here, you know. I think I'll go out for a good stretch.
                        By the way, Hammond, I suppose I ought to know, but I've been so little at
                        home lately, you see—who's this fellow Percy Gerrard, who you're all talking
                        about?”
                    
                    “A scavenger of genius,” I replied.
                    “A what?”
                    “The editor of an extremely successful weekly paper of the social variety. In
                        his youth he produced a witty and improper novel, which everybody said it
                        was impossible to read, and everybody promptly read. It affected to be
                        autobiographical. Now he has ceased to be immoral—at all events in
                        print—having laid to heart the golden maxim that public confession of the
                        sins of others is, on the whole, an even more paying speculation than public
                        confession of sins of your own. I am afraid he has also ceased to be witty.
                        That is a matter for regret.”
                    Leversedge looked hard at me.
                    “Sounds a bit of a skunk, I think,” he said. “But very likely I'm wrong. I
                        see I don't catch on to a whole heap of subjects you are all talking about.
                        I have stayed out of England too long, and your ideas at home have run clean
                        away from me. You are all speaking a language I don't know half the
                        time.”
                    He stared absently at the stool, still lying wrong way up on the marble
                        floor, and then kicked it aside with a sudden savageness.
                    “Why the dickens didn't I come home six years ago for good?” he said. “I was
                        worth a tidy lot even then. I was younger, everyone was younger—one was more
                        in touch. And then, perhaps, too, I should
                        never have seen that ungodly brute of a—Oh, well, I beg your pardon,
                        Hammond. I must have bored you enough and to spare with my own affairs
                        already. Meet you at dinner? All right—I'm going for my walk.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IV
                    I WAS called away to Evian for a couple of days to meet a friend—who
                        does not enter into this history, so we will, if you please, leave her out
                        of it. I returned, rather depressed, by an afternoon boat that was packed
                        with an amazingly plain-headed selection of tourists of all nations. They
                        named the mountains by the help of red Baedekers, patronised the beauties of
                        nature, smoked atrocious tobacco, expectorated freely, and were othervise
                        objectionable to almost every sense.
                    Yet if you could detach your mind from the vileness of surrounding humanity,
                        the aspect of nature was very enjoyable. Rain had fallen in the early
                        morning, and the fresh-washed landscape wore a delightfully clean and
                        youthful look. The hotels and villas on the north shore of the lake shone
                        out among their rich orchards and gardens; while the lake itself, a
                        “heavenly floor,” showing all shades from indigo to azure, was turned up
                        with the most delectable bottle-green at the edges. The Savoy Alps were
                        azure likewise, shot with pinkish lights upon their topmost crags, and with
                            a bloom of sunlit woods about their
                        feet. The Swiss are nothing but a nation of “marchands de soupe.” Granted; but it must be conceded they
                        have the merit of selling the contents of their stock-pots in an admirably
                        pretty country.
                    On disembarking, the first person I saw—barring the heavy porter in peg-top
                        trousers, who managed the gang-plank—was Mr. Perry. He appeared worried. He
                        scuttled up and down over the black timbers of the pier and clung to the
                        rusty side-rails, scanning the lovely levels of the lake with irritable
                        eyes. At intervals he hailed some—to me—imperceptible object in the far
                        distance, and signalled with a bulky white umbrella. Catching sight of me,
                        he saluted me with wavings of this instrument.
                    “Ah! you are back again, Mr. Hammond,” he cried. “And all our little society
                        will be most happy to welcome you back—I'm sure, most happy. Even in so
                        purely fortuitous an association of our fellow-creatures, even in the
                        passing relations of an hotel, we miss the accustomed face, the vacant place
                        at table raises a regret.”
                    I expressed my sense of indebtedness for these polite observations. But Mr.
                        Perry bad returned to his agitated survey of the lake.
                    “Excuse me,” he exclaimed. “I think I perceive them.”
                    He climbed upon the cross-bar ironwork of
                        rails with surprising agility, and gave forth a really portentous howl.
                    “Coming in that direction you must have seen them in passing, Mr. Hammond, in
                        the steamer,” he said, turning suddenly and almost angrily upon me, after
                        waiting vainly for some response to this terrible noise. “Did you not
                        recognise them?”
                    “Who and what are they?” I ventured to inquire.
                    “Constantine Leversedge has taken my daughter out boating.”—Mr. Perry
                        descended dejectedly from his perch.—“No, I was in error. I did not perceive
                        them, nor evidently did you.”
                    He removed his hat and wiped his forehead. I may mention that Mr. Perry
                        invariably wore a tall hat at this period, and black clothes. After which
                        ceremony he somewhat recovered his equanimity.
                    “No, no,” he cried, “we must school ourselves, we must school ourselves— 
                            To wait and hope, and still to hope and wait,
                            Last lesson learned by man of heaven directed fate.
                         But I am not among the pessimists, Mr. Hammond. I can look forward, I
                        am thankful to say, and look up.”
                    All of which unquestionably was very praiseworthy on the part of Mr. Perry;
                        but a little too large, so it struck me, for the immediate situation. I
                        pointed out that the young people were in no danger, that disaster was wholly improbable, the sky being absolutely
                        clear, the water as smooth as a millpond.
                    “Ah, you misconceive me,” Mr. Perry rejoined.—He carried his head on one
                        side, and nodded sagely, looking up from under his eyebrows.—“You
                        misconceive me. I fear other dangers than material ones just now,—a father's
                        anxieties, natural and not I think condemnable where the future of so dear
                        an object as an only daughter is concerned. Frankly, then,—for in speaking
                        to you I speak to a man of the world, Mr. Hammond,—our charming friends,
                        Mrs. Septimus Mertyns and Mr. Gerrard, have called. They are actually here,
                        they are indoors with Mamma. And it annoys me,” he said, “I cannot disguise
                        from myself that it annoys me profoundly, my daughter should not be at home
                        to receive them. Constantine shows himself inconsiderate in detaining her so
                        long. I thought it probable our friends would visit us this afternoon, and I
                        gave him a pretty broad hint on the subject. I regret to say so—but you must
                        have observed it yourself, Mr. Hammond—Constantine Leversedge is obtuse,
                        unhappily obtuse; he is insufficiently sensible of his social privileges.
                        Having been deprived of intellectual advantages, and the enjoyment of
                        intercourse with persons of superior gifts and position for so long, I
                        should have expected him to prize these things highly. But unfortunately it is not so. He displays, is
                        displaying at this moment, in my opinion, a lamentable indifference to an
                        opportunity of cultivating a most valuable acquaintance. I hoped he had
                        taken my hint. He assured me he would return soon after five. Unless I am
                        very much mistaken, six will be striking almost immediately.”
                    Evidently this was serious. So I tried to appease Mr. Perry by remarking
                        that, considering how exquisite a companion he possessed, Leversedge's
                        conduct was more than comprehensible, excusable, almost justifiable. For is
                        not unpunctuality, as I pointed out, the natural prerogative of happy
                        lovers? For them time has ceased. Eternity enfolds them. How, then, can they
                        be expected to remember that wholly mechanical contrivance, the clock? And,
                        to pass from the general to the particular, was it altogether inconceivable
                        that even Mrs. Mertyns might, at a push, recall faint memories of a period
                        when to linger with the great Septimus beyond the appointed time had been
                        bliss? Was Perry himself, indeed, entirely guiltless under this head? For
                        had he never, in the dear dead past, toyed with Mrs. Perry,—pretty, pretty
                        picture!—oblivious of the fleet-footed hours, which, as the poets so
                        insistently remind us, “will not stay”?
                    “Ah yes, the young will be young, will be young, Mr. Hammond,” he admitted.
                        “It therefore is incumbent upon those who,
                        like Mamma and myself, have reached what I may term the watershed of our
                        terrestrial existence, to watch attentively and prevent the commission of
                        thoughtless indiscretion on the part of our youthful relatives. Keep a sharp
                        look-out on our green apples, our green apples, ah ha!—eh? And society is
                        not to be trifled with. Not—but, excuse me, this time I do perceive
                        them.”
                    A rowing-boat, containing two persons, rounded the nose of the stone
                        breakwater which protects the bathing-place and little harbour on the right
                        of the garden. And my companion, uttering ejaculations of uncontrollable
                        satisfaction, chased off the steamboat pier and trotted along the path at
                        the bottom of the hotel grounds to meet it.
                    The breakwater, I may mention, runs back in a low, broad-topped stone wall,
                        enclosing two sides of a triangular piece of ground planted with close rows
                        of plane trees. The hotel boatman's house stands at one corner. The men dry
                        their nets here, and the boats are hauled up for repairs. It is a nice,
                        moist, shady place, commanding an entrancing view, where the gnat trumpets
                        by day and by night, and the midge actively investigates all pasturage
                        afforded by the human loiterer.
                    As for me, I never run; should not, I imagine, were it even to clasp to my
                        heart a potentially eloping daughter—which
                        thing, heaven, in its mercy, eternally forbid! So I followed Mr. Perry, in
                        all the calm dignity of the non-parental mind, along the lake path under
                        quivering balsam-poplars and charmingly pendent willows, arriving at the
                        place of gnats only in time to see his lop-sided, little, black figure and
                        the tall, cream-coloured one of the fair Charlotte speeding away, through
                        sunshine and shadow, in the direction of the hotel and social
                        distinction.
                    Verily, the ways of Providence are not equal! I had returned from Evian in a
                        depressed frame of mind, as I have already recorded. I had started for that
                        agreeably mundane little watering-place in a somewhat Byronic humour,
                        determined to do a trifle of living on my own account. But the humour had
                        not lasted. With me it rarely does. Once on the spot, a spirit of pallid
                        Platonism invaded me, chilling to death all possibility of drama. It really
                        was rather provoking, for I love drama; and the position had been worthy of
                        one of those French comedies from which the heart must be extracted, during
                        the process of adaptation for the English stage, if young maidens are to be
                        spared anxiety when taking members of the elder generation to the theatre. I
                        had planned it all so nicely, yet nothing had come of it. And now, directly
                        I returned to this innocent locality, to these commonplace, not to say rather common, people, I found that, in full
                        play which I had vainly sought across the water.
                    Mr. Perry's conversation had given me food for thought. While one glance at
                        Leversedge assured me that for him the wheels had been going round during my
                        absence, going round to some purpose.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER V
                    HE had just beached the boat, a gaudy emerald-green and buff affair
                        with scarlet cushions to it, and stood in the shifting angular shadow of the
                        plane trees, watching the receding figure of the lady of his affections and
                        that of his prospective father-in-law. As they passed out of sight, behind a
                        belt of flowering shrubs in the garden, Leversedge half shut his eyes and
                        threw back his head. Then his chin dropped on his chest, and he stared
                        vacantly at a pair of swans sailing about the clear water of the little
                        harbour, just back of the row of gaily painted boats—which creaked and
                        bumped together as the slight wash from the beat of the birds' black paddles
                        took them.
                    A good many of us, I suppose, as we get on in life, have a face our friends
                        do not know, though our looking-glasses do, when doors are shut and the room
                        is empty. That is the face of our naked self, and therefore it is somewhat
                        indecent for any but ourselves to behold it. Leversedge believed himself to
                        be alone, he had let slip appearances, and
                        I beheld the face of his naked self. It was very interesting; but, as things
                        naked often will, it gave me a shock.
                    Not that there was anything evil in it. It held no revelation of cleverly
                        veiled iniquities, no trace either of fox or satyr. The man's self bare was,
                        like the man's self clothed, cleanly, sober, and—on its own lines—not
                        undignified. If sin was about, one judged him more likely to be sinned
                        against than sinning; which, so the authorities assure us, “is far better.”
                        But, in his case, even the farthest better was still but a poor best. For
                        Leversedge looked hunted, looked tormented; looked as people will look after
                        a disaster at sea, or a heavy shock of earthquake; looked as those are
                        reported to look who have seen a ghost.
                    Of course we all join in denying the existence of the supernatural and
                        relegating it to the, at present somewhat over-populated, country of
                        Exploded Ideas; or only in permitting its existence in the form of some
                        derangement of nerve ganglia or of the intestines. The pill, to put it
                        concisely, has superseded the prayer—to the great advantage of the vender of
                        patent medicines, whose advertisement-boards have so gracefully usurped the
                        station of the wayside cross in modern English landscape.
                    I mention this in self-defence. For Leversedge certainly did look as though, in pre-scientific phrase, he had seen a
                        ghost; and no one knows better than I do, I need hardly say, that ghosts,
                        like miracles, “do not happen.” Therefore Leversedge's body must clearly
                        have been playing some fool's trick on Leversedge's brain; and Leversedge,
                        in being taken in and so harassed by such trickery was clearly guilty of a
                        grave scientific misdemeanour. Demonstrably it was my place to be angry with
                        him, to convince him of foolishness. But I did none of these things. I own
                        to it with contrition, I was horribly sorry for him—that was all. And only
                        the more sorry, when, suddenly awakening to the fact of my presence, he
                        gripped himself, left off contemplating the swans, accosted me with as much
                        nonchalance as he could muster (not being a very accomplished actor); while
                        an almost defiant inquiry as to how much of the face of his naked self I had
                        beheld haunted his eyes.
                    “Oh, I beg your pardon, Hammond; I didn't see you,” he said. “We've been
                        having a very jolly time out on the water. It really is a glorious
                        afternoon. But the sunshine's rather dazzling. It strikes right up in your
                        face off the surface of the lake in a blinding sort of way. Well, what have
                        you been doing? Been amusing yourself over there?”
                    “With the wisest moderation,” I replied. “My joys during the last two days
                        have had nothing bacchanalian about them. I have lost a little money, I have gained a little experience, since
                        we parted. And so have you, I fancy, my dear fellow.”
                    “Why? I've lost no money,” Leversedge said rather quickly.
                    “No, but you have lost flesh, which always implies a deepening of
                        experience.”
                    Leversedge seemed startled. Then, after a moment's pause, he exclaimed
                        inconsequently—
                    “Why, you don't mean to say it shows as much as that!”
                    “I only mean to say that you are looking a good deal out of sorts.”
                    “You see too much, Hammond.” He spoke shortly, but recovered himself almost
                        at once. “I'm hardly the person to accuse others of seeing too much,
                        though.”
                    “So I feared,” I said.
                    “I have had a hell of a time with—with that blasted dog”—Leversedge flung
                        away from me savagely. “Oh, it's humiliating!” he cried. “I tell you I'm
                        ashamed, downright ashamed of myself. I can't hold my tongue—I want to talk
                        about it. I want to tell somebody. I am as full of my own symptoms and
                        sensations as some hysterical girl. I can't keep them to myself. Oh! it's
                        humiliating; I tell you it's degrading to one's manhood.”
                    He turned and stood quietly by me again, and again I beheld the face of his
                        naked self.
                    “I don't know what to do for the best,” he said. “I want advice—advice; I, who have never asked
                        advice of any living soul, but just shoved along by myself and kept my own
                        counsel, ever since—when I was a little chap of eleven, after my mother
                        died—my father chucked me into the rough and tumble of Harrow to sink or
                        swim as I could. And I have swum after a fashion—that's just why it's so
                        rough on one. If you're going to smash up, upon my word I believe it's best
                        to do it early, before you have grown to believe in yourself. You haven't so
                        far to fall, so it hurts less. But I beg your pardon, Hammond,” he added
                        civilly, changing his tone. “I have no earthly claim on your patience and
                        kindness, and I must be boring you frightfully.”
                    “Boring me?” I cried. “Ye gods! is one bored watching in the operating
                        theatre? Is one bored when seeing a man hanged?”
                    Leversedge smiled grimly. Perhaps my words evoked some recollection.
                    “No,” he replied. “There are nicer occupations; but I grant you you are not
                        much bored, as a rule, when a man's being hung.”
                    We moved away and sat down on the top of the wall together, and I confessed
                        Leversedge—smoking all the while, which I fear was far from the orthodox
                        attitude of a confessor. But it was agitating work, and I needed support of
                        some kind.
                    “You see, the thing's growing worse,” he said,— “not merely more frequent in coming, but
                        different; it is developing—that's what knocks me about so. It doesn't stop
                        where it did. The brute is materialising itself—that's the word, isn't
                        it?—more and more.”—He drew his heels up on to the coping, and bowed himself
                        together, clasping his bands round his knees.—“When I was sitting with the
                        Perrys the other evening, it curled itself up on my lap. And I could not
                        play the fool before them, you know, by blaspheming at it and making a
                        scene. I had to sit still.”—He leant forward, resting his chin upon his
                        knees, and spoke very steadily.—“And I tell you I felt all the shape of
                        it—its shoulder, the crinkled turn of its ribs—it must be horribly thin—and
                        its left fore and hind leg pressing down on me as it lay on them, as plain
                        as I feel my fingers holding each other just now. It was all cold and damp,
                        and—and it smelt, Hammond, and that was unspeakably filthy. You know how a
                        mangy cur can smell.”
                    “This is bad,” I said.
                    Leversedge raised his head slowly and looked at me.
                    “I believe you. It is bad—just as bad as bad can be.” He rested his chin on
                        his knees again.—“And the beast has taken a fancy to my bedroom,
                        unfortunately. Last night, as soon as I put the candles out, I saw the eyes
                        down by the side of the bed and they made a rush. I heaved a book at them which I had been reading. It was
                            Vanity Fair. I'm awfully fond of Vanity
                            Fair. Poor little Becky, I always want to give her her five
                        thousand a year to ‘be good on.’ Oh dear me!—Well, they wriggled down again;
                        the beast was knocked backwards on to the floor, you understand. But in a
                        minute it made another rush, and came up across the counterpane, and settled
                        itself against the pillow, those eyes staring bang into mine.”
                    Leversedge put his feet to the ground and, turning away, leaned his elbows on
                        the low wall. His hat was off, and he held his head back. I saw, against the
                        wide heavenly blue expanse of the lake, his face in profile, his pointed
                        beard, and the rather long line of his bare throat—in which the apple moved
                        sharply as he swallowed once or twice. He was fine-looking, but too
                        colourless and worn for health—the Elizabethan adventurer still, but the
                        adventurer who has touched the limit of success, who is beginning to make
                        acquaintance with the side of adventure which deals in sickness, in prison,
                        in the failure of hope, in foreknowledge of death.
                    “I swore at it, but it did not move. I could not bring myself to touch it, so
                        we stayed like that some time.”—He paused and swallowed again.—“At last I
                        turned over on the other side, and it came and scratched at my back, between
                            the shoulders, as if it was digging out
                        a rabbit. And then—why, then I began to pray, Hammond. If there's a devil,
                        there must be a God somewhere too, I suppose, if it's only to balance
                        things; and I thought perhaps He might happen to hear. It did leave off
                        scratching, but it turned round and round, and snuggled into the small of my
                        back and lay there against me like a lump of ice. It chilled me clean
                        through. I couldn't stand it, so I lighted the candles again, and walked up
                        and down till that blessed sun arose and it was day.”
                    For a minute or two I smoked in silence, and Leversedge stared across the
                        lake. The grisly night of which he told me and this radiant evening were in
                        curious contrast. At last he said—“Hammond, what on earth am I to do?”
                    “About about?” I asked, for I knew he had not finished his confession
                        yet.
                    “About my engagement—about Charlotte Perry,” he answered rather hoarsely.
                    “Ah! That comes into it.”
                    He looked up at me.—“Of course that comes into it. Why, that's the heart of
                        it. Do you suppose I should care a twopenny-damn about it but for that?”
                    “I am afraid I should care a very immense amount, my dear fellow,” I said,
                        “quite entirely apart from that.”
                    Leversedge straightened himself up.
                    
                    “No, you wouldn't, though, not if you were in my place. You see, this
                        engagement of mine is an old story. It's worked right into the very stuff of
                        my life. And,it may sound queer,”—he smiled rather sadly,-“but perhaps you
                        are never really more dependent upon a woman than when you are a few
                        thousand miles away from her. You see, when you are knocking about in
                        countries where there is not much public opinion to reckon with you are
                        liable to be tempted to live a bit loosely; and then her face comes before
                        you at all sorts of odd times, and her letters come. And you spend hours
                        planning what you and she will do together when the parting is over and you
                        get back. The thought of her is the sweetness of your life, and the salt of
                        it too—it's what makes the work worth while. You see other women, nice women
                        some of them,—dear women, for a lot of women are nice and dear,—and they're
                        good to you sometimes; but they aren't in it, they don't count one bit. You
                        want her, just her and no one else; and you're ambitious for her, you slave
                        and pile up money for her, you want to give her just all there is to have.
                        And—and, in fact,” Leversedge said, looking full at me, “I love her,
                        Hammond. I love her. I suppose I'm a selfish coward, but it's worse than
                        death—oh! my God, it's unutterable misery to think of giving her up.”
                    His voice had grown thick. He did not wait for my answer, but walked away
                        beside the 
                            break-
                            breakwater
                         water—his figure long and white
                        under the 
                            coo
                            cool
                         green shade of the plane trees.
                    I like lovers. Their antics rarely irritate me. Even at their worst they are
                        idiots to whom I offer myself quite willingly as an asylum, and invite, with
                        open arms, to drivel on my breast; while, at their best, they ravish my soul
                        with satisfaction. In spirit I build temples to them, and worship prostrate,
                        my frivolous head in the dust. I had erected a quite imposing temple to
                        Leversedge by the time he returned; for it appeared to me that, in him,
                        Providence granted me acquaintance with a lover of a rather heroic type. If
                        the Beloved was as fine as the Lover, I had hope. In that case I snapped my
                        fingers at the diabolic dog. For if Charlotte Perry was what her lover
                        imagined her, if she was worthy of his love, I did not fear but that she
                        could stay the plague under which he suffered. But was she worthy? Was it
                        probable the paternal rat and maternal clock-moon could between them produce
                        offspring of an heroic stamp? To believe they could was, I own, a tax on my
                        faith. But, as in law the accused is held innocent till proved guilty, so I
                        would assume Miss Perry to be a heroine till she was clearly proved to be
                        otherwise, and therefore I said to Leversedge—
                    “Has it occurred to you, my good friend, that you are treating this matter
                        rather high-handedly, and that the young lady in question might be 
                            any-
                            anything
                         thing but grateful to you for—as
                        you put it—giving her up?”
                    “I only want to spare her.”
                    “Quite so. But as we may, I suppose, take for granted a degree of affection
                        on her side, it remains an open question whether you will spare her by
                        retiring from the situation.”
                    “Ah! if I thought she cared like that,” Leversedge said softly.
                    “Of course,” I cried, “she cares like that.”
                    Nothing is sweeter than assurance on the part of others, when one's own
                        confidence grows somewhat weak. Leversedge threw back his bead and smiled.
                        Without doubt he was very much in love.
                    “And yet, I don't know,” he said after a moment. “For the more she cares the
                        more likely I should be to bring my curse on her. It is too hideous to
                        contemplate. Think, Hammond, if later, if afterwards, as the reward of her
                        faithfulness, as the payment of her great goodness in giving herself to
                        me—she—she came to see and feel that loathsome beast herself?”
                    But here cries from the direction of the hotel broke in upon the solemnity of
                        our interview, and Mr. Perry bore down upon us at a double.
                    “Make a clean breast of it,” I said hurriedly. “Trust her—tell her. That is
                        my advice, since you have done me the kindness to ask it. Tell her
                        everything. Let her decide.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI
                    “CONSTANTINE,” he called. “Où est il?
                            savez-vous où il est—Monsieur Leversedge?”
                    Now, I am, I trust, the last person in the world to be guilty of an
                        impertinence towards my elders; but, as Mr. Perry pursued his active way
                        towards us, the word pecky rose unbidden to my lips. His
                        expression denoted desire for some object on which to wreak a measure of
                        vengeance. A cherry, perhaps, would do; perhaps a worm or fly; possibly—for
                        have not even doves, under stress of emotion, been known to use their tender
                        beaks upon their fellow-doves?—possibly he coveted a human victim. At sight
                        of me, however, I observed him make an effort to summon a more genial
                        aspect, and overlay his evident irascibility with a varnish of playfulness.
                        He shook his finger waggishly at me; and my heart fell. Could this, indeed,
                        be a father of heroic children?
                    “Ah ha! I see, I see!” he exclaimed. “The mystery touches on explanation.
                        ‘This is the cause, the cause, my soul.’ Hence Constantine plays truant. When you two young gentlemen get
                        together there is no hope of you.”
                    He turned to Leversedge, and as he did so the spirit of peckiness resumed
                        full sway.
                    “We have been expecting you,” he cried. “Charlotte has been visibly disturbed
                        by your absence.”
                    “Oh, has she? I'm sure I am very sorry,” Leversedge said. “I understood some
                        friends of yours were there, and—”
                    “Precisely,” returned Mr. Perry quite excitedly. “That is the point. Friends
                        of ours are here. Mr. Percy Gerrard and Mrs. Septimus Mertyns are kindly
                        calling upon us. Most talented person, I am sure, Mrs. Mertyns,—an
                        advantage, Constantine, as I was saying recently to Mr. Hammond, a positive
                        advantage for one whom, like yourself, I may call a débutant in the London world, to have the entrée of her charming house.”
                    During the progress of this somewhat confused exordium, Leversedge's
                        vaguely-distracted brow had gathered into a quite definite frown. He was
                        bothered, annoyed, and, for once, did not try to conceal the fact.
                    “I have not the honour of knowing Mrs. Mertyns,” he said.
                    “Precisely,” cried Mr. Perry again. “That, as I remark, is the point.
                        Charlotte perceived this was a most favourable opportunity for effecting
                            the introduction. She is very
                        thoughtful, very—dear girl,”—here he smiled in a really kingly manner,—“very
                        wise; she notes, and never undervalues, a social opportunity. For which I
                        commend her. Indifference in social matters is, rightly understood, but the
                        mask of ignorance— 
                            Ignorance, that churlish sin,
                            Which, seeking to cloak others, shows itself
                            Still basest born of all.”
                        
                    “Dear me!” murmured Leversedge, lifting his shoulders, as he drew a long
                        breath.
                    “Charlotte took for granted you would follow us up from the boat immediately.
                        When she found you did not do so, she was disappointed, I had almost said
                        pained; for she recognised your mistake. Mamma, remarking her
                        disappointment—affection lends wings to perception, Mr. Hammond—interrupting
                        me in the midst of a most interesting conversation with Mr. Gerrard upon the
                        deepening of the conservative sentiment among the educated artisans of our
                        great commercial centres, whispered to me to come and tell you. And here I
                            am;—me voilà, as I may say, Mr.
                        Hammond, here I am.”
                    “Yes, you are very sensibly here, Mr. Perry: and it is, as always, a
                        happiness to be in your company,” I replied, with effusion.
                    I had an idea Leversedge intended revolt. I
                        wanted to give him time to mature that excellent intention.
                    Mr. Perry glanced at me sharply; then he again addressed our companion.
                    “Well, Constantine, I have delivered myself of my mission. Why this
                        delay?”
                    “Because”—Leversedge spoke very slowly—“I will explain why to Charlotte
                        later, and she will understand,”—he paused,—“yes, she'll understand; because
                        I don't, to tell the truth, feel very much inclined to go and see these
                        people just now. I—I am not in the humour.”
                    “But—but—this is unheard of,” cried Mr. Perry. “Not inclined,—this is
                        incredible. Not inclined,—this is insanity.”
                    “Oh no, it isn't; it is disinclination,” Leversedge replied, pushing his
                        hands down into the pockets of his boating coat and smiling wearily.
                        “Nothing worse than disinclination. Not insanity, not just yet,—at least, I
                        believe not.”
                    “I fail to grasp your meaning.” Mr. Perry looked vicious.
                    “Oh, it's very simple. As I say, I will explain to Charlotte; she'll
                        understand.”—Leversedge repeated the phrase more as one who needs, than as
                        one who has, a conviction of the truth of that which he asserts.—“We will
                        leave it all in her hands. It may be better in the longrun for me not to
                        know these people at all.”
                    
                    At this rejoinder Perry père lost himself
                        utterly for the moment, and, in the excess of his irritation, literally
                        danced round his future son-in-law.
                    “Not to know them? But don't you recognise that it is absolutely incumbent
                        upon you to know my daughter's very cultivated and interesting circle of
                        friends? It is your duty, and I may add your privilege, to pay them all
                        possible attention. What are you thinking of? Pray, who have you to look to
                        but them? Who have you to push you socially? Why, yours and my daughter's
                        future happiness is wholly dependent upon their attitude towards you—upon
                        their receiving you, taking you up, and putting you through, in short.”
                    I ought to have gone away and left the combatants. I admit that I ought. But
                        the natural man is strong in me, and curiosity is strong in the natural man.
                        I was tempted, and I fell; that is, I stayed—stayed to see Leversedge clasp
                        his hands behind him, and bow slightly from the waist.
                    “So our happiness is dependent upon Charlotte's friends taking us up and
                        putting us through, is it?” he answered calmly. “Well, I own the matter had
                        not occurred to me in that light. I hoped our happiness drew a little more
                        water than that. But I may be wrong, of course, Mr. Perry, and you may be
                        right. I shall know more about it when I have explained things to Charlotte;
                        and if I find a strict observance of social duties will secure our
                            happiness, you may be very certain I
                        shall do my best to observe them.—Ah!” he added, “here she is.”
                    His face went very pale, but his eyes were clear and steady and his jaw set.
                        Morally, the small battle had braced him.
                    Miss Perry's cheeks appeared charmingly flushed, her abundant hair slightly
                        disordered. The drawing together of her lips suggested a sense of injury, an
                        inclination to tears. She was extremely pretty, as she halted at the edge of
                        the shadow thrown by the plane trees, a radiant perspective of wooded shore
                        bathed in golden sunshine and the fair expanse of the azure lake behind her,
                        the white swans floating motionless, the gaily-painted boats.
                    “Ah, Constantine,” she exclaimed in tones of plaintive reproach, “what cause
                        you have given me for vexation!”
                    Leversedge stepped out into the sunshine towards her.
                    “No,” she said, raising her hands, “repentance comes too late. They have
                        gone. It is useless now, and I wanted you so greatly to see them.”
                    “Look here, my dearest child, I am glad they are gone, for I want greatly to
                        see you.”
                    There was a certain air of mastery about Leversedge just then, which was not
                        to be gainsaid. Without the smallest apology, he put his arm round the young
                        lady's shoulders and drew her aside. Miss Perry looked startled. She was I imagine, unaccustomed to such practical
                        declarations of affection in public.
                    “Never mind your friends; they won't break their hearts at not seeing me.
                        They'll keep. Let's sit down on the wall over there. I've a whole lot to
                        tell you. I ought to have told you before, but I shirked it.”
                    “Constantine!” the girl murmured. Her expression was strange. The dewy eyes
                        were frightened, the rest of her face sharpened into resemblance of the
                        paternal rat.
                    Leversedge must have seen the fright, for I heard him speak soothingly. I
                        trusted he did not see the rat.
                    “Come, come, my dear sir,” I cried, “in this delightful idyll you and I
                        clearly have no part. Let us remove ourselves with all possible
                        despatch.”
                    I ventured to let my hand rest upon the sleeve of Mr. Perry's ill-brushed
                        coat.
                    “I am amazed at the events of the last quarter of an hour,” he said severely
                        as he walked away. “I may go further,—I may employ the term dumfoundered.
                        The anxieties of a parent are cruel, Mr. Hammond. The pelican strips from
                        her breast feathers wherewith to line the nest for her young; and then the
                        young, in the most unexpected manner—I am sure sometimes most unexpected—get
                        out of the nest and fly away. That is how Mamma and myself feel just now,
                        Mr. Hammond, I assure you we do.”
                    
                    Mr. Perry drew up suddenly, took out his handkerchief, and wiped his head
                        well round.
                    “I am at sea,” he cried. “I give you my word, Mr. Hammond, I am completely at
                        sea.”
                    “Never fear,” I returned cheerfully; “if I have the honour of knowing you
                        truly, you are one of those elect souls who are very safe to come into port
                        at last.”
                    Mr. Perry eyed me shrewdly, and then decided to take the speech in good part;
                        so told me it reminded him of a capital story of the late Earl of
                        Beaconsfield and a deputation of shipowners from Cardiff, which story he
                        proceeded to tell me, as we strolled towards the hotel, at the fullest of
                        full length.
                
            
            
                
                PHASE SECOND
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE next day, as far as I remember, passed without incident until
                        evening.
                    I hold there is but one irremediable evil in life, that of growing tired of
                        oneself. I therefore avoid it with great care, and, to that end, entirely
                        refuse to grow accustomed to my own idiosyncrasies. I let my characteristics
                        take me by surprise. I am journalier to
                        myself, scorning stereotyped habits as I would scorn to wear a livery. I
                        dread to be consistent as I would dread paralysis. Quite the last person of
                        my acquaintance with whom I would ever risk being familiar is myself; and so
                        I study earnestly to cultivate a various mind, and give my good qualities
                        the slip equally with my bad ones.
                    To take a minor example. I am naturally gregarious. The manners and customs
                        of my fellow-mortals afford me permanent entertainment. Consequently I woo solitude, and often seek a
                        hermit hour. I sought one, unsuccessfully, on the evening in question.
                    It was damp out of doors, and the more lively members of the community had
                        gathered in the hall, the more serious in the salle
                            de conversation, after dinner. A mixed multitude in both
                        cases, splitting itself up, as such multitudes invariably do, into cliques
                        and coteries, that jealously guard their own frontiers, while casting
                        glances of mingled desire and distrust upon those of their neighbours. At
                        one end of the hall, a would-be prima-donna, of transatlantic extraction, reigned over the
                        American section of the community, supported by an elegant and obedient
                        mother who had kept her figure, a good-tempered and obedient French composer
                        who had lost his, and a disobedient French poodle who had followed suit. At
                        the other end, a venerable Russian poet, blessed with fine head and silvery
                        beard, a man of really apostolic aspect—he, for cause unknown, by the way,
                        invariably wore brown kid, cut-fingered gloves—presided over a court of
                        three beautiful daughters; a fierce, spare young woman in a scarlet silk
                        blouse—her wardrobe appeared limited—whose black hair hung in a thick
                        pigtail, tied with scarlet ribbons, down her back to below her knees; and
                        two young men, also Russian, of debilitated physique and excited bearing.
                        The interspaces were filled in by English
                        —English, prickly or patronising, nervously dumb or nervously boisterous;
                        few, if any of them, quite at their ease. For it must be conceded that the
                        number of our dear country-men and women who possess the gentle art of
                        living gracefully in public is lamentably small. Persons who, in the
                        security of their moist island homes, are well-bred and really quite
                        delightful, become as awkward as chased hens in an hotel. Most English are
                        born with their feet glued to little round green stands, like the ladies and
                        gentlemen of Noah's Ark. To see them unglued—as in foreign travel—is to see
                        them at a disadvantage. For the stand is as necessary to their self-respect
                        as their decent petticoats and irreproachable trousers.
                    In the hall everyone talked. The debilitated Russian young men did more. They
                        waved their arms and shouted; while the spare young woman alternately hissed
                        and purred at them, and waved, not her arms only, but her whole lithe body.
                        This displeased the poodle—it was very disquieting—and caused him to bark,
                        which caused his mistress to slap him. During the process she explained
                        exactly why she slapped him to her mother and all her friends; who on their
                        part continued chattering volubly to her and her mother, and the poodle, and
                        each other, and the French composer. The latter laughed good-temperedly,
                        with raised eyebrows, puffed at his cigar, furtively consoled the poodle, and tapped out airs from his coming opera
                        upon the floor with the heel of his boot.
                    In the salon the style was different. A
                        retired Deputy Surgeon-General of the Madras Army, seated upon a gilded
                        lounge upholstered in crimson and yellow (the furniture of the salon was slightly loud), held forth to an
                        elderly and respectable audience upon the clear connection between Mr.
                        Gladstone and the “little horn” in the Book of the Prophet Daniel, the
                        iniquities of the Opium Traffic, and the unfulfilled predictions in
                        Revelations.
                    Good Mrs. Perry was a member of his congregation. She sat under the full
                        glare of the gas chandelier. She was rubicund. She was beaming. Yet she
                        appeared to me worried. Presumably Mr. Gladstone and the “little horn” were
                        too much for her. In that she surely did not stand alone. Mr. Gladstone and
                        the “little horn,” whether taken singly or in connection, have been too much
                        for many persons before now. Realising this, I ventured to disregard the
                        signs the kind creature made to me—her pointings to and pattings of a vacant
                        golden seat in the immediate vicinity of the exegetical Deputy
                        Surgeon-General. I hurriedly crossed the room, and let myself out by one of
                        the glass doors on to the long wide verandah.
                    The change from the heat and noise and glare within was rather startling.
                    A wet wind lashed through the balsam poplars
                        bordering the lake, swept over the garden, and tormented the banks of
                        shrubbery on either side the large lawn. The leaves of the pyramidal
                        magnolias upon the terrace slapped together, and the great odorous blossoms
                        swayed ghostly in the half light. Flights of ragged cloud, fringed with
                        watery yellow where they crossed the moon, fled across the sky. Gleams of
                        white foam and a hoarseness of breaking waves came from the shore. In a
                        spirit of economy the lamps upon the terrace and the verandah had been left
                        unlighted. Only a tawny brightness from the doors and windows of the
                            salon lay in broad stripes along the
                        marble pavement, and touched the edges of the descending steps.
                    We writers of little verses are addicted to exaggerating the moral and
                        emotional significance of Nature's moods, no doubt. The night struck me as
                        full of inarticulate complaint, turbulent and distressed—a night to make one
                        think of lost youth, and dead loves; and of that most inconveniently
                        haunting of beings, the still living woman whom—almost certainly—one ought
                        to have married.—I often think of her, for I have a tender heart, and she
                        was really very charming.—I thought of her now as I stood on the wind-swept
                        verandah. A long trail of scarlet, trumpet-flowered honeysuckle had torn
                        away from its fastenings, and beat against the ironwork just above my
                            head. And here observe the advantages
                        of cultivating a various mind! In a few seconds I was enjoying all the
                        pensive satisfactions of self-reproach. For I ought to have married her.
                        Unquestionably I ought. It is true when I proposed she refused me. But that
                        is a detail. I had delayed; I had shilly-shallied. I had been seen in
                        equivocal company, and a considerate friend had not been wanting to report
                        that damaging incident. And then I had been too ready to take “No” for an
                        answer. Decline to take “No,” oh my brothers, wholly decline to take it, and
                        in the end the woman will invariably say “Yes.”—Here modesty intervened,
                        inquiring, “What, invariably?” And I replied, “Yes, always, invariably,”
                        refusing to permit officious modesty thus to put out the purifying fires of
                        self-reproach.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER II
                    BUT just then a deprecating voice, worthy to be that of modesty
                        incarnate, gently addressed me.—“Mr. Hammond, I hesitate to interrupt you,
                        for I have watched you and I see you are thinking. I fancy you are
                        regretting. And so I hesitate.”
                    Charlotte Perry had approached from somewhere in the surrounding dimness. She
                        stood on my right, between me and the steps, and her appearance was
                        arresting. She had swathed herself in an Indian shawl, which framed her
                        face, was drawn closely about her shoulders and folded arms, draping her
                        whole figure and almost concealing even the skirt of her dress. This shawl
                        was an exquisite thing—one of Leversedge's many costly gifts. In colour
                        violet, it was stiffened at the border with delicate gold and silver threads
                        and arabesques worked in many-coloured silks. The warm light from the
                        windows behind us touched these rich colours in places, touched the girl's
                        profile and the soft brown hair about her forehead. The result was eminently
                            picturesque. Charlotte Perry looked
                        quite delightfully pretty; and had Leversedge not possessed prior claims, I
                        really could have found it in my heart—but then fortunately Leversedge did
                        possess them. I remembered this; yet I hold a man a fool who, be his
                        sentiments ever so honourable, omits to let a woman know when he finds her
                        pleasant to look upon.
                    “Hesitate no longer, my dear young lady,” I therefore answered.
                        “Interruptions, when they appear in so charming a form, believe me, are
                        never unwelcome.”
                    Miss Perry gazed at me for a moment, and her dewy eyes were very bright.—“I
                        wonder,” she said softly, “are you ever in earnest? Are you ever
                        serious?”
                    “I am profoundly serious in my welcome of this particular interruption.”
                    The girl drew her breath with a little sob. “Can—can one trust you, I
                        wonder?” she said.
                    “Try me,” I cried,—“try me. Such as I am you shall not, I warrant you, find
                        me wanting.”
                    Still Miss Perry drew her breath somewhat sobbingly. She leaned her shrouded
                        head against the iron pillar of the verandah. The leaves and scarlet flowers
                        of the honeysuckle clustered around it. I regretted the half dark, for I
                        merely received an impression, and the picture must have been worthy to be
                        seen clearly. Just then I heard a distinct
                        grunt. Various animals grunt; my knowledge of natural history, though by no
                        means profound, carries me as far as that. But only one human being of my
                        acquaintance produces—whether voluntarily or involuntarily I know not—that
                        unengaging sound. A rather squat black person passed slowly down the farther
                        side of the marble steps.
                    “Percy Gerrard!” I exclaimed. “Where has the great man been hiding the light
                        of his countenance? I did not know he was here.”
                    “I am in trouble,” Miss Perry murmured, disregarding my remark.—“I am in
                        great trouble.” She clasped her hands, and the shawl fell in loose folds
                        about her.—“You know my parents, Mr. Hammond. You know their devotion to me?
                        Of course you know it, and have probably smiled at it.”
                    “Heaven forbid!” I murmured.
                    “Ah, but you have. For is it not obviously exaggerated—an affection blinding
                        to the critical faculty? They have no measure. No one realises more keenly
                        than I do that their misplaced admiration makes both me and themselves
                        absurd.”—Miss Perry's tone expressed the tenderest apology, the most
                        appeasing humility.—“They cannot help it, I suppose,” she said gently. “But
                        their attitude does not fail to distress and embarrass me greatly, all the
                        same. Do not imagine that I undervalue
                        their goodness to me. It is beautiful, but, alas! it is impeding. I cannot
                        be quite frank with them. I cannot dare to risk causing them pain.”
                    She swung aside with a really fine movement. As she did so the light from the
                            salon window fell full on her face; I
                        saw that her eyes overflowed with tears.
                    “And I am in pain,” she cried softly. “I suffer, ah! I suffer. I am cruelly
                        perplexed. For I fail to see where duty—the high duty which compels
                        acquiescence, and dignifies self-surrender—truly lies.”
                    I am very alive to sentiment. This was touching and I was touched. Yet in the
                        girl's speech and action was there not just a hint, a remote hint, of Perry
                            père in his noblest manner? I
                        therefore hardened my heart slightly, determining to test the fair sufferer
                        and bring her to book.
                    “Leversedge has spoken to you,” I said.
                    “Yes, that is part of the pain; but not in the way you no doubt imagine, Mr.
                        Hammond. If my parents knew all that he has told me, they would certainly
                        require us to part. They would think only of me. Therefore they must not
                        know.”
                    And I, hearing this, repented of my late suspicion in mental sackcloth and
                        ashes. “That is well,” I said,—“very well.”
                    “Is it?”—Miss Perry smiled upon me. I divined more than saw the working of
                        her singularly captivating mouth.—“How
                        little men know of women, after all! How easily they mistake that which will
                        attract and that which will repulse us! I should have expected Constantine
                        to mistake; but you, Mr. Hammond, are different. From you I should have
                        hoped for a more subtle judgment. Understand, this strange story of
                        Constantine's has no terror for me.”
                    “The gods be praised for that,” I murmured. “Leversedge is not born under so
                        very unlucky a star, after all.”
                    The girl leaned her head against the iron pillar, clustered with honeysuckle,
                        again. The wind took her hair, blowing it back over the embroidered edge of
                        the shawl. Her eyes were astonishingly bright.
                    “No, it has no terror for me,” she repeated. “If this curse is laid upon him,
                        it is clearly my office to share it, to shield him, to sustain him in these
                        dark seasons and places of his existence. And so, far from repulsing, it
                        attracts me. It supplies the touch of mystery which was lacking. It
                        dignifies what was otherwise commonplace. It wraps us—him and me—about with
                        a peculiar atmosphere.”
                    As she spoke, she pressed her head in among the leaves and flowers and drew
                        the folds of her shawl tighter about her with an odd action as of physical
                        enjoyment. Charlotte Perry had never
                        appeared to me so perfectly natural as at this moment. Her deprecatory
                        manner had vanished. She glowed, so to speak. She was positively seductive,
                        but she was also a little displeasing.
                    “If Constantine knew how to use it,” she continued, “it might be tremendous
                        and splendid. He might make an immense success, an immense reputation. He
                        would be received anywhere on the strength of it. Ah! what a superb
                        opportunity some men would find in this! To have your legend thus ready to
                        hand, and, if properly treated, such a legend! You might dominate
                        society.”
                    The girl let her hands fall at her sides dejectedly.
                    “But he has no idea how to use it—no more idea than a child. The opportunity
                        will be wasted. He does not rise to it in the very least. I have tried to
                        inspire him, tried to show him how unique and therefore precious a fate has
                        befallen him; but I cannot develop any enthusiasm in him. I cannot, cannot
                        make him see.”
                    “No,” I agreed; “that, I am afraid, is a point of view which will never
                        commend itself to Leversedge. I fear you will never make him see.”
                    Miss Perry looked at me sharply—as her father might have looked. Then she
                        bent her head, put her hands over her eyes, moved a couple of paces to the
                        right hurriedly, while the wind—lending itself sympathetically to the
                        situation—caught her shawl and blew it up
                        and outward into a great arc of dusky colour, against which her light dress,
                        her slightly bowed figure, her arms bare to the elbow, were revealed.
                    “Ah!” she cried, “I am very unfortunate. I have given you a wrong
                        impression—you, Antony Hammond, the last person I would have misjudge my
                        motives.”
                    The hypercritical might have called all this artificial and theatrical
                        perhaps. I can never find it in my heart to be hypercritical where a thing
                        is really well done; and, without question, this was beautifully done. The
                        personal note, too, in the young lady's outcry I found comforting to my
                        little sprig of private vanity. So, naturally I protested vehemently against
                        all possibility of misjudging her motives. But Miss Perry refused to listen.
                        She stood before me clutching one corner of her shawl, letting the rest of
                        it lie heaped about her feet on the wet marble pavement, while she addressed
                        me with lips trembling from emotion.
                    “I know it,” she said, “and of course you know it—who better, seeing who you
                        are and what you are? But I cannot help it. I am not well-bred—my poor, dear
                        parents are altogether mistaken about me; how should they, alas! of all
                        people, perceive just that? I am not well-bred, and the knowledge I am not
                        haunts me and poisons my happiness; for I
                        am conscious that to you, and such as you, Mr. Hammond, I must seem lacking
                        in delicacy at times, lacking in innate refinement. I am conscious that in
                        what I said just now I have seemed thus lacking. I misled you by my inherent
                        inability to express myself, to put things as a high-bred woman would put
                        them.”
                    Distress impeded the girl's utterance.
                    “I seemed guilty of proposing to trade upon Constantine's strange
                        hallucination. I seemed oh! it is too dreadful—like the unnatural mother who
                        makes capital out of the deformity of her child. And I am incapable of
                        entertaining such an idea. Surely you must feel I am incapable of it?
                        Indeed, you cruelly misread me. It was not of myself I was thinking, not of
                        any advantage I could gain, but of him, of Constantine—exclusively, solely
                        of him.”
                    This was abundantly moving. I would have spoken, but Miss Perry paused only
                        an instant for breath, and then continued in the most charmingly pleading
                        tones.
                    “You know—as a poet, who should know better?—that we none of us can live
                        without our romance, without an ideal, without some secret, hidden place in
                        which the soul finds and maintains the completeness of its individuality. We
                        must have not only this passive support; we must have an active one too—we
                        must have some realm to conquer. A strange
                        fate has overtaken Constantine. He must either sink under it or find his
                        romance in it. I thought it conceivable he might do that last. I dreamed he
                        might be saved, that I might save him that way—but—but you say it cannot
                        be.”
                    I tried to point out to Miss Perry that a far less recondite way of salvation
                        was open to Leversedge through her instrumentality. She had only to stand by
                        him, to be good to him, to—if I might put it crudely—love him. Why are
                        homely, honest things such as these always the most difficult to say? I
                        feared I was playing a somewhat bearish part, and most unromantically
                        drowning fine fancifulness in the cold waters of common-sense. I protest the
                        position was hard on me, for I should greatly have preferred meeting my fair
                        companion's utterances in a more sympathetic spirit. I found her abundantly
                        captivating. But friendship demanded I should not yield too freely to such
                        finding. I therefore strove to quench our little possible flames—both hers
                        and mine—in this douche of cold water.
                    But I am only a man after all. Miss Perry was far more than man, namely,
                        woman—which means that she was a past-master in the art of strategy. I had
                        advanced upon her lumberingly along the plain. She suddenly opened fire upon
                        me from heights I had never even reconnoitred.
                    
                    “Forgive me if I have spoken too plainly,” I said, “and preached you a
                        desolatingly dull sermon. You will be within your rights if you are
                        offended; still, my dear young lady, if you can possibly avoid it, don't be
                        offended. Clemency is a great virtue, specially when extended to that vilest
                        of bores—the giver of sound practical advice. Remember, our object is the
                        same; the straightening out, the reconstructing, of Constantine Leversedge.
                            
                            ”
                        
                    Miss Perry's face was in the light again. Her charming lips were
                        quivering.—“I am not offended,” she said gently; “I am a little hurt—that is
                        inevitable.”—She put up her hands and held both sides of her head with a
                        sort of distraction.—“If I was only sure, only sure,” she repeated, “that I
                        could only trust you—that you would not misunderstand again, would not think
                        me indelicate—unmaidenly.”
                    She gazed first questioningly at me, then out into the wild night.
                    “I will trust you,” she said finally. “Come down into the garden. The
                        neighbourhood of all these people in the salon paralyses me. Here I cannot speak, and I must speak, I
                        must.”
                    Now clearly it was indiscreet to accede to Miss Perry's proposition.
                        Moreover, the gravel was wet and the soles of my evening shoes thin. Still,
                        I went down with her into the garden.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER III
                    WHY is there always a third person to whom one owes a duty? And why
                        do the claims of that third person become paramount at precisely the most
                        inconvenient moments? “'Twas even thus from childhood's hour” in my
                        experience. Ah! what is it to have retained a little odd and end of a
                        conscience! I protest I wish I had been born a blackguard; a gentleman-like,
                        but otherwise unmitigated, villain, then life might indeed have been worth
                        living!
                    Charlotte Perry moved down the dusky alley beside me in silence. We reached
                        the path running along the shore before she spoke.
                    The moon had sailed out from behind the floats of cloud, and her light made a
                        wide pale stain right across the lake, in which the broken crests of the
                        waves leapt up like tongues of silver flame. The wind swept tumultuously
                        through the thick foliage of the trees above us. Away on the Savoy side,
                        under the shadowy mass of the mountains, clusters of twinkling lights marked
                        the site of the villages of St. Gingolph and Meillerie. The scene was a wholly appropriate setting to a romantic
                            tête-à-tête. It might have really been
                        enchanting but for the intruding claims of the inevitable third person.
                    Miss Perry paced along slowly, swathed closely in her shawl, her head bent.
                        She addressed me in broken sentences. Her voice was so low that, what with
                        the swishing wind and breaking waves, at times I could barely catch her
                        words.
                    “The root of my suffering is this,” she murmured, “I am sensible of a change
                        in myself, which makes me doubt whether the voice of supreme duty counsels
                        self-emancipation or self-abnegation. Now that we have met again, I cannot
                        disguise from myself that I have developed, and that Constantine—you care
                        for him, you are his friend, therefore I can say it,—that Constantine has
                        not developed. There was a time when what he had to offer me seemed
                        enough—wealth and all the advantages it brings with it, a very respectable
                        social position and—”
                    “And very sincere affection,” I put in.
                    The girl stopped abruptly and faced me, wringing, literally wringing, her
                        hands.
                    “Ah! what will you think of me?” she cried.
                    “That you are entirely charming,” I answered.
                    “Be serious, pray, pray be serious,” Miss Perry implored.
                    She stood gazing up at the moon, trying apparently to control some
                        overmastering emotion, pressing her hands
                        upon her bosom; while her shawl, once more yielding to the wind blew hither
                        and thither, forming all manner of fantastic evolutions. Sometimes it sailed
                        out in a streaming pennon, sometimes it clung closely, shrouding her figure
                        as that of a nun.
                    “Constantine has much, very much to give. But, but in the last year—is it
                        faithless, is it wrong of me?—I have come to dream of a love very different
                        from his. And I cannot decide whether that is a temptation or a revelation.
                        A love occult, profound, mysterious—a love which should be a religion, an
                        illumination, which should realise all the richest, deepest aspirations of
                        one's soul. I think, from what I read, they knew this love in Italy during
                        the Renaissance—some, a few, a very few, have known it since—”
                    Her voice sank away into an awestricken whisper.
                    “Only a few, a very few,” she repeated, “have known it since. Constantine
                        could never know it; he could not grasp the idea. And therefore I tremble
                        lest I should do violence to the light that is in me by contracting a
                        marriage in which this element must of necessity be absent—this hidden
                        mutual adoration of elect hearts.”
                    There was a momentary silence. The sound of the lake was hoarse along the
                        shore, the trees bent, reeled under the force of the warm wind. The girl's shawl suddenly sprung up in flapping
                        bat-like wings from her shoulders, giving her lightly clad figure the
                        strangest appearance. It affected me. I became resolutely practical.
                    “You wish to break off your engagement,” I said.
                    “No, no—not unless, unless—”
                    And Charlotte Perry's lips gathered into that fascinating sketch of a kiss,
                        while she looked full at me in the most astonishing manner.
                    I grew hot. I grew cold. I rallied my friendship for Leversedge. I wished I
                        was not a man of honour. I wished a cloud would pass over the moon. I
                        thanked God I was a man of honour. I blew up the embers of my affection for
                        the woman I ought to have married. I wished I knew what on earth to say. I
                        craved for the presence of Perry père; I
                        should have hailed him as my deliverer from one of the worst moments of my
                        life. I wondered if I was making a contemptible mistake. I wished sweet
                        Lydia Castern had never refused me. I wondered if I was a fatuous ass. I
                        wished Leversedge would rush out of the nearest bush and seize me by the
                        throat. I wished anything and everything, in short, but that this
                        marvellously pretty girl, with the dewy eyes and bewitching mouth, should
                        continue to stand looking thus at me.
                    “My dear, young lady—” I began, with a courage born of desperation.
                    
                    But Miss Perry moved back a step or two, extending one hand in a movement of
                        entreaty and protest, covering her eyes with the other.
                    “Oh! spare me the crowning humiliation of an explanation,” she cried. “It is
                        uncalled for. It is almost unchivalrous. Can you doubt that I see my
                        error—that, with a scathing clearness, I comprehend.”
                    “I will go—I will leave here to-night. I will leave by the first train in the
                        morning,” I exclaimed distractedly.
                    The girl made no immediate response. Her attitude stiffened, like that of a
                        person who listens and thinks acutely. Was it conceivable that behind the
                        screen of her uplifted hand Charlotte Perry was thinking acutely? I detested
                        myself for entertaining so cold-blooded a supposition; yet as the seconds
                        passed I could not avoid entertaining it.
                    “I will go,” I repeated.
                    Miss Perry lowered her hand, and gathered her shawl languidly about her.
                        Never had she looked more flower-like, more adorably virginal.
                    “No!” she said, and there was not any trace of resentment in her gentle
                        tones; “indeed, you must not go. For after all you owe me something—a
                        little, just a very little, Mr. Hammond—” her charming eyes dwelt
                        momentarily upon my most unworthy face.
                    
                    “It is almost intolerable to think how much I owe you,” I replied. “Dispose
                        of me as you please.”
                    The girl's mouth quivered, her eyelids drooped. “Then I lay it upon you to
                        remain here,” she said. “You will still be my friend. Have I not bought your
                        friendship at a rather bitter price—the price of my woman's pride? You will
                        remain. You will teach me where my highest duty lies. I think perhaps you
                        have begun to teach me that already. You will help me to save Constantine,”
                        she sighed.—“You will help me to conceal this double pain from my poor,
                        dear, doting parents. For they must absolutely know nothing of Constantine's
                        strange hallucination,—they must know nothing of—”
                    The girl's voice died down into a sobbing whisper. She held out her hand to
                        me. I kissed it in silence, and Miss Perry turned away.—“Do not come with
                        me, please,” she murmured. “It is far kinder to let me find my way back
                        through this troubled wind-vexed night alone.”
                    I permitted a decent time to elapse before I returned to the hotel. I am
                        human. Consequently, I was moved; I was flattered; I was attendri—specially at first. Then the blighting
                        habit of analysis, the one habit with which, alas! I utterly fail to play
                        fast and loose, laid its chill influence upon my feelings. I began to ask 
                            my-
                            myself
                         self whether the Carissima
                        was—just possibly—among the greatest actresses of the world? I recalled that
                        odious grunt. I began to ask myself, where the devil Mr. Percy Gerrard could
                        possibly come in?
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IV
                    I HAVE mentioned Percy Gerrard. I disliked him then, I may add that
                        I dislike him still. A certain pleasure is derivable from describing those
                        whom one dislikes. I will not deny myself that pleasure.
                    At this particular period of his development; Gerrard had lately passed from
                        the expansive and aggressive to the reserved style. He moved as one anointed
                        by profound experiences, as one hallowed by an esoteric wisdom of the
                        heart.—Had Miss Perry, by chance, acquired some of her curious little
                        theories on the subject of the affections from this source? I could not
                        say.—In bearing, Gerrard was withdrawn, augustly apart. He had religious
                        scruples too, or, to be quite accurate, religious persons had, according to
                        his own report, scruples concerning him. He hinted at diplomacies on the
                        part of Eminences sent forth from the Eternal City. Both in speech and in
                        print he gave one to understand that, not only many a member of the Sacred
                        College, but even the Holy Father himself, was engaged in efforts to gather this wandering sheep—in whom mystic
                        and worldling were so subtlely mixed—into the great central Catholic fold.
                        The honest man commits himself hastily. The truly wise man commits himself
                        very, very slowly. For is not the possible convert precious, alike to those
                        whose communion he is on the edge of joining, and those whose communion he
                        is on the edge of leaving? Gerrard knew this. He remained on the edge, wooed
                        by both parties. I believe, for I don't see him often in these days, he
                        remains there still.
                    In person he was not beautiful. I have heard that plain but vivacious lady,
                        Madame Jacobini, describe him as “a cross between a second-rate Parisian
                            petit crevé and a Methodist parson
                        gone wrong.” There is an element of excess in this statement, yet truly he
                        was not beautiful. For he was short, sallow, and inclined to stoutness; in
                        moments of asperity I could have found it in my heart to call him
                        greasy-looking. His hair was black, rather long, and of an uncomfortable
                        thinness and smoothness. What of moustache he owned was black also. He
                        dressed soberly, as in mourning for lost illusions. He had political
                        aspirations of the grand seigneur type,—he
                        dwelt on pictures of the stately, conscientious noble, of the lowly and
                        contented serf. As far as I know, he never owned a rod, pole, or perch—let
                        alone acre—of his native or any other soil. But that is a base detail. As rank would not marry him—I
                        speak from hearsay—he had decided to marry money. Meanwhile a lady possessed
                        of neither, according to contemporary scandal, solaced the leisures of this
                        truly remarkable mind.
                    In the days immediately succeeding my surprising interview with Miss Perry, I
                        observed that Gerrard treated us to an increasing amount of his society. He
                        came in to luncheon; he came in to dinner. He, if I may employ so common an
                        expression in speaking of so uncommon a person, was perpetually hanging
                        about.
                    I was hanging about too. For I soon discovered Miss Perry's demand that I
                        should help her in the present crisis of her affairs was no empty one. I had
                        begged her to dispose of me. She took me at my word. She did dispose of me.
                        I am far from complaining, for our fair Charlotte did everything (almost
                        everything) well, and she disposed of me admirably. She held me with a
                        silken chain; held me so gently, so deferentially, yet with so delicate a
                        flavour of chastened sadness, of just conceivable reproach, that I came near
                        hugging that same chain. It became natural I should be constantly at hand.
                        Gerrard, as I have said, was also constantly at hand. So, of course, was
                        Leversedge. It was not her object, I entirely acquit the young lady of any
                        so paltry a scheme, but in point of fact she did thus establish a rival court to those of the American prima donna and the Russian poet—a court which
                        not only rivalled, but came near eclipsing theirs. For while they merely
                        herded indiscriminately with their kind, Miss Perry throned it alone in her
                        maidenly sweetness, always attended by one, sometimes by two, more
                        frequently by three still youngish and entirely eligible English gentlemen.
                        Such things give me pleasure!—Let it be added, that her worthy parents were
                        constantly, though unobtrusively, within hail; their office, like that of
                        the chorus in a Greek play, to direct the eyes of the spectators upon the
                        chief actors in the piece by praising these last, lauding their talents,
                        virtues, and beauty, reciting their titles, and the innumerable noble deeds
                        they had performed, or might, in the hopeful opinion of the chorus, almost
                        certainly be expected to perform very shortly.
                    But we were not always in public. The suite of apartments retained by
                        Leversedge for the Perry family included a smart little sitting-room. And it
                        was here, as far as my memory serves me, that the next serious scene of the
                        Perry-Leversedge drama enacted itself.
                    The devotion of Miss Perry's parents to their offspring reached the point of
                        self-effacement. And further than that no devotion, surely, can go? As my
                        intimacy with this interesting family increased, I could not fail to remark
                        the young lady, on more than one occasion,
                        tenderly but firmly suggest that her mother might stand in need of repose.
                        Sometimes the dear good woman took the hint gratefully. Sometimes she
                        appeared slightly perplexed, and did not display entire docility; or, and
                        that was embarrassing, bungled in speech and required explanation. She was
                        guilty of this last, I grieve to report, on the evening in question.
                    We were gathered in the sitting-room, and Charlotte had been playing to us.
                        Mrs. Perry, supported by a wealth of puce silk cushions, was seated on a
                        sofa, at right angles to the large French-window opening on to the balcony.
                        A disposition to slumber after the last and heaviest meal of the day, in
                        which hereditary middle-class habit triumphed for a brief space over a
                        somewhat late developed social sense, held Mrs. Perry in its ponderous
                        grasp. Her knitting fell on to her lap. She recovered it. Soon it fell
                        again, and this time with a distinct tinkle of the steel needles. Our active
                        Perry, seated beside her (the sound of whose own breathing had, more than
                        once, quite audibly filled up the pauses in his daughter's really
                        magnificent rendering of the ill-omened Kreutzer Sonata), recalled her to a
                        fitting sense of her dignified surroundings by gently fanning her with the
                        half-completed woollen sock, while murmuring in tones of playful
                        severity—
                    
                    “Mrs. Perry, my love, do not give way! Awake, my life—rouse yourself, pray
                        rouse yourself, Mamma!”
                    In consequence, I suppose, of overhearing these admonitions, Miss Perry, her
                        progress accompanied by the soft rustlings of what I believe is technically
                        known as a “silk foundation,” crossed the room and laid her hand caressingly
                        upon her mother's shoulder.
                    “Dearest”—she began in her charmingly hesitating voice.
                    Mrs. Perry sat bolt upright.
                    “Gracious, Lottie, how you did make me jump!” she cried.
                    Leversedge had been standing at the open window; he stepped rather quickly
                        out on to the balcony. Gerrard had been turning over some music lying on the
                        top of the piano. He emitted the peculiar sound I have characterised as a
                        grunt. I had been standing by Leversedge; I remained where I was, and
                        Charlotte Perry, still bending very prettily above her mother, raised her
                        eyes to mine in pleading, in pathetic apology for the shortcomings of one so
                        near and dear to her. Then, visibly making an effort over herself, she went
                        on gently:—“Dearest, I see that you are weary. The day has been so hot. We
                        must not let you over-tire yourself. You need rest. You must not let me keep
                        you up.”
                    
                    “Well, it has been very hot, my dear,” Mrs. Perry assented. “And the heat
                        often does turn me a little giddy, as I think I told you, Mr. Hammond. And
                        the music's very nice and pretty, but you see I never can keep awake long
                        under it.”
                    “A lullaby,” broke in Mr. Perry gaily,—“a lullaby! Delightful compliment, I'm
                        sure, really delightful compliment to the soothing qualities of my
                        daughter's playing— 
                            And tired eyes in sweet repose,
                        
                        et cetera.—Line from a hymn that, I fancy.
                        But, as I maintain whenever the subject comes up for discussion, our
                        hymnology is not to be despised, numbering, as it does, Cowper, Addison, and
                        the late venerable, though mistaken, Cardinal Newman among its producers.
                        Sweet verses, I give you my word for it, most exceedingly sweet verses, I
                        have often been constrained to recall to my wife's memory—haven't I,
                        Mamma?—on our return from our church services.”
                    Again Charlotte Perry raised her dewy eyes to mine. Poor young lady, I really
                        felt for her. Her parents were somewhat unspeakable.
                    “Listen, dearest mother, you acknowledge that you are tired,” she repeated.
                        “I know our guests will excuse you. So do not attempt to sit up any
                        longer”—here she glanced at Mr. Perry, and once again it struck me that at
                        moments there was a singular similarity
                        between the expression of the father and daughter.—“Persuade her to go,—they
                        have kindly asked for a little more music,—but persuade her to go. It will
                        be much better.”
                    An air of bewilderment pervaded Mrs. Perry's kindly countenance. She looked
                        questioningly from one to the other.
                    “But, my dear,” she said,—“of course you know best, and I wouldn't interfere
                        with your arrangements on any account, you know; but isn't it rather odd—it
                        is so awkward to say like this—but you know, my dear, how nervous I am at
                        night, and if Papa goes to bed too you'll be left alone with these three
                        gen—”
                    A quantity of loose music fell with a slither and thump from the piano on to
                        the floor, and Gerrard stooped, murmuring excuses for his stupidity, to pick
                        it up. Leversedge, who was standing near the window again, called to me—
                    “Come out here, Hammond. The lake is looking awfully pretty to-night.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER V
                    I OBEYED his summons, and leaned beside Leversedge upon the stone
                        balustrade of the balcony.
                    To-night the garden was very sufficiently illuminated. Earlier in the evening
                        the local orchestra had discoursed music of a questionable sweetness upon
                        the verandah; and the whole of our company, reinforced by a contingent from
                        the town, still lingered in the balmy night air, taking little drinks around
                        the tables upon the terrace, or strolling about the paths and shadowy
                        alleys. A gang of children, clothed in white garments, chased each other,
                        with cries, across the broad lawns and in and out of the shrubberies. Far
                        out on the lake, someone was singing to a thrumming banjo accompaniment.
                    This was the first time I had seen Leversedge, save in the presence of
                        witnesses, for several days. I had fancied, probably quite erroneously, that
                        I detected a slight unwillingness on the part of the fair Charlotte to leave
                        us together. I was the more glad, therefore, to note a very distinct 
                            im-
                            improvement
                         provement in my companion's looks
                        and bearing. He seemed less harassed, steadier, more solid; he bore himself
                        as a man contented and at ease. I even thought that just now I perceived a
                        smile at the back of his eyes, so to speak, indicating that the late
                        incident—though he so gallantly came to the rescue—had appealed to his sense
                        of humour.
                    “It's a glorious night, isn't it?” he said.
                    Leversedge's shoulders shook slightly.
                    “I really am awfully fond of Mrs. Perry, though,” he added. “And that fellow
                        Gerrard actually came in at the right moment for once in his life.”
                    “Are you revising your first opinion?” I asked; for I was rather curious as
                        to the relation of the two men. “Are you growing to relish the society of
                        our celebrated Percy?”
                    “Oh, I think him more or less of a skunk, which is exactly what I always have
                        thought him,” Leversedge answered in tones of cheerful contempt. “And we see
                        a lot more of him than I personally in the least care to see; but when a
                        man's clear that he has the game in his own hands, he is an ass if he
                        worries about trifles. I can put up with Mr. Percy Gerrard well enough for
                        the next week or two. And if he fools about too much after we are married,
                        I'll just let him know his place by kicking him.” Leversedge quietly
                        chuckled.—“I walked downstairs behind him
                        the other day, and I've an idea nature specially constructed him with a view
                        to a kicking.”
                    Clearly Leversedge was in excellent spirits.
                    “The course of true love runs smooth, then?” I remarked. “The marriage takes
                        place?”
                    Leversedge stood up and stretched himself, opening his chest and bringing his
                        clenched fists up to the level of his shoulders.
                    “Yes, the marriage takes place—takes place—takes place,” he said,
                        smiling.
                    Then he leaned his elbows on the top of the balustrade again, and for a
                        minute or two we were silent. The man was evidently happy, and when a man is
                        happy I hold he may very safely be left to his own thoughts. For, next to
                        slapping an infant to make it cease crying, or beating a cripple with his
                        own crutches to make him hurry, I know no more brutal stupidity than
                        awakening the happy from their dream of bliss by talking to them. Happiness
                        is not so common that one cares to risk interfering with it. Let them speak
                        first. After a time Leversedge did speak.
                    “You were perfectly right, Hammond,” he said, “and I was a miserably
                        faithless idiot of a creature. Of course the right way was to trust her. I'm
                        immensely grateful to you. You've been a wonderfully good friend to us both.
                        She told me you had had a little talk with her the other day, and, I think, if possible, she's been sweeter to
                        me than ever since then.”
                    Leversedge turned his face to me. It was radiant.
                    “Dear God,” he said very softly, “it's the loveliest thing on earth to be
                        certain at last that the woman you love really loves you.”
                    “And of that you are certain?” I asked.
                    “Yes, haven't I had proof? She has been tried in the fire and shown what she
                        is made of—pure gold. I've left off cursing the dog, Hammond—for three whole
                        days I've forgotten to curse him. Ah! there's Charlotte playing again. She
                        does play divinely, doesn't she? Let's come to the window and listen.”
                    And it really was worth while to listen; for if not exactly divine, Miss
                        Perry's playing was remarkably good. Her technique was admirable—so
                        admirable, that you could afford to forget all about it, and give yourself
                        to the emotional element crying through and superseding the mechanical
                        one.
                    Gerrard had subsided into an arm-chair close to the grand piano. He was not a
                        large man, yet he had the iniquitous habit of slightly overflowing every
                        chair in which he sat. To-night he overflowed more than usual, changing his
                        position frequently, shading his eyes with a music score, glancing about him
                        restlessly, grunting, then shading them
                        again. As Miss Perry concluded the nocturne she had been playing, he rose
                        with a sloth-like slowness to his small square feet; and, as the girl,
                        turning her head, looked at him, said—
                    “No, my craving for music is not yet satisfied, far from it. But before I ask
                        you to steep my jaded senses once more in this purifying ocean of sound, I
                        must implore that the room may be darkened somewhat. You have done your best
                        to mitigate the glaring abominations of colour and form in this terrible
                        hotel salon, I am sure, Miss Perry; but
                        yet much, much of necessity remains which causes anguish to a cultivated
                        eye. And the garish light of these candles and lamps brings all unlovely
                        details into fullest relief.”
                    “Really I didn't think the room half bad,” Leversedge said in an aside.
                    “May we not have some of them extinguished, Miss Perry?—thus letting the
                        stars, there, through the open window, the fragrance of the garden borne
                        upon the night wind, and the perilous rapture of Chopin—think of the
                        Majorcan episode, that exquisite exile à
                            deux, the eternal sough of the breeze in the pine trees, and
                        George Sand (the woman of the sphinx-like and unfathomable eyes) sitting by
                        drinking in the insatiable passion of the master's music,—let these, I say,
                        even here, amid the bare commonplaces of a modern hotel, for one beneficent
                        hour have it all their own way.”
                    
                    “Ah! I love the half light too,” the girl answered. “It is sympathetic.
                        Partially to conceal is to suggest, isn't it? And to suggest is often really
                        to reveal the deeper, the everlasting meaning, don't you think so?”
                    She got up.
                    “Yes—yes—let us extinguish them,” she said, with a sort of fervour. Then
                        checking herself suddenly, she added,—“Ah! I forgot.”
                    Charlotte Perry paused; she appeared to hesitate. Then she came swiftly
                        across the room, straight to Leversedge—her head thrown back, her hands
                        slightly extended as though in entreaty, and that conceivable kiss
                        deliciously sketched upon her lips.
                    “But if you in the least mind, Constantine?” she said, just audibly, and
                        waited.
                    He had been a little disturbed by Gerrard's strictures upon the sitting-room,
                        but Leversedge's moment of ecstasy was not wholly past yet. His face was
                        still radiant.
                    “My dearest child, do whatever you like,” he said, taking her extended hands
                        for an instant. “Thanks to you, I am growing royally indifferent to the
                        dark.”
                    Charlotte Perry lingered, gazing in a really enchanting manner questioningly
                        at her lover. Suddenly her chin quivered, and her bright eyes were suffused
                        by tears. This was wonderfully pretty—too pretty for Leversedge.
                    
                    “Go and play, go and play,” he said huskily. “Go, or I shall make a fool of
                        myself. Go—I'll put out your candles and things—put out the sun itself in
                        heaven, I believe if you asked me to.”
                    The girl turned, gave me one glance in passing—stabbing me as with a dewy
                        dagger—and moved swiftly back to the piano; while Leversedge followed her,
                        quenching light and sowing darkness in his path with an almost savage
                        ardour; and Gerrard spread himself over the surface of his arm-chair again,
                        with a grunt.
                    “Thanks, thanks, that is better. You are really very amiable, Mr.
                        Leversedge,” he murmured, in tones of lofty patronage. “Nothing now, I
                        trust, will mar the sentiment—a sentiment at once so chaste and so
                        voluptuous—of these god-given nocturnes.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE dark is all very well. The dark may even prove a friend; at
                        times I have found it so myself. But this was not one of those times, and
                        somehow I mistrusted the events of the last few minutes; neither Gerarrd's
                        action or our fair Charlotte's had appeared to me quite spontaneous. I
                        reproved myself for my eternal cavilling where these two persons were
                        concerned; yet I remained impressed with the feeling that his request had
                        been curiously insistent, her granting of it curiously elaborate.
                    And then, the darkened room unquestionably wore a somewhat sinister aspect,
                        by no means calculated to dispel uncomfortable suspicions, however foolish
                        and unfounded such suspicions might be. The electric lights on the terrace
                        threw a vague, stark sort of brightness, crossed by equally vague bluish
                        shadows, upon the ceiling, upon portions of the wall above the piano, and
                        upon the edges of the furniture near the window. The shadow of the ironwork
                        of the balcony lay along the floor, twisted and contorted by the opposing angles of the lamps below. Otherwise the
                        room and its contents were colourless and indistinct.
                    As Miss Perry's fingers touched the keys again, I placed myself on the sofa
                        left vacant by her mother's departure to the connubial chamber. The
                        silk-covered pillows, that had supported that good lady's back and promoted
                        her unaristocratic tendency towards slumber, had now slipped down on to the
                        seat. The crumpled surface of the upper one and the frill of it caught the
                        light. Leversedge stepped back on to the balcony. He stood there, his left
                        shoulder resting against the woodwork of the window-frame. His face was
                        turned towards the darkened room; but I had a sense it bore an expression of
                        exaltation, the exaltation of something successfully dared and won. The man
                        was generous to a fault. Generosity communicates a pleasant glow to the
                        whole person. I have been generous myself just often enough to know that
                        one's first sensation is delicious, as is the first moment after jumping out
                        of a cold bath. I have, also, observed you need subsequently to rub yourself
                        very hard if you would retain either the moral or spiritual sensation of
                        warmth. The tonic has been a trifle too strong, a reaction follows. These
                        thoughts passed through my mind as I looked up at Leversedge, and in doing
                        so became aware that his lean, well-made figure—showing black against the
                        purple depth of the night sky—was
                        surrounded, like the cushions and carved woodwork of the sofa immediately
                        below him, by a pale luminous outline.
                    Charlotte Perry played that nocturne—I stupidly forget the number of it—with
                        a tenderness beyond all praise. I murmured something of my very genuine
                        admiration, the most rudimentary taste forbidding, to my thinking, at all
                        pronounced applause. Gerrard, however, uplifted his voice without
                        hesitation. He belongs to a set—the Mrs. Septimus Mertyns set—in which
                        endless discussion is fashionable, and a hundred and one wise reasons are
                        offered in justification of even the most trivial personal opinion. He spoke
                        languidly, yet loud. He intended us to hear.
                    “Thanks,” he said, “you have surpassed yourself. I fancy that unconsciously
                        you have done more. We were speaking of self-revelation just now. Surely, in
                        your rendering of that delicious thing, you permitted yourself to draw away
                        a veil from your own soul, and, for those who have ears to hear and eyes to
                        see, in a measure revealed your deepest self!”
                    Leversedge moved slightly.
                    “The spiritual element in that nocturne is definite, it speaks directly to my
                        religious instinct,” he continued. “But the spiritual element is not the
                        only one, for the sentiment as a whole is marvellously complex. That is what
                            renders it so profoundly interesting.
                        The religious emotion in its simple expression is always joyous, isn't
                        it?”
                    “I think so,” the girl answered softly.
                    “I am sure that it is,” Gerrard asserted. “Recalling the hours when I have
                        been most deeply conscious of the magnetism of the Divine Idea, I recognise
                        that they were hours of unalloyed joyousness.”
                    I hugged myself silently at the thought of Gerrard of all men on earth, Percy
                        Gerrard, author of Leda's Lover, and editor of the
                            Present Day, with his lethargic temperament and gift of
                        heavy feeding, in a condition of unalloyed joyousness, thanks to the
                        magnetism of the Divine Idea!
                    “But here, notwithstanding the presence of true spirituality, I find little
                        gladness. I am aware, indeed, throughout of a tremor of intense and vital
                        melancholy. You were aware of that also, Miss Perry; and you intended to
                        convey it to your hearer?”
                    “Ah yes!” she answered, again softly.
                    Leversedge shifted his position.
                    “I knew it!” exclaimed Gerrard. “Your dramatic instinct, of course, is
                        strong, since you possess in so remarkable a degree the artistic
                        temperament. But, knowing you as well as I am learning to know you, I can
                        rapidly detect where you draw upon the
                        comparative shallows of the dramatic instinct, and where upon the deeps of
                        living personal experience.”
                    “The deuce you can!” said Leversedge, under his breath.
                    “May I try, will you grant me permission to try, to construe your
                        thought?”
                    Gerrard still addressed himself with rather ostentatious exclusiveness to
                        Miss Perry; but he still spoke quite loud, his voice cracking up now and
                        again into the shrillest and most unengaging treble. It had the effect of a
                        challenge as delivered by a cockerel, none too certain of his own prowess or
                        of his footing, from the top of a wall. His manner and the subject of his
                        discourse, in short, were quite ironically at variance.
                    “To me it seems you found in that nocturne, and gave in your rendering of it,
                        the melancholy, not of a rejected soul—far from that—but rather of one who,
                        after long struggle, has sacrificed the consummation of terrestrial
                        happiness in obedience to the compelling dominion of some moral idea; and
                        who, looking back, momentarily gauges the immensity, I had almost said, the
                        enormity of such a sacrifice.”—He paused, trying, as I imagined, to gain
                        more mastery over his wandering voice.—“Yes, your reading was richly subtle,
                        richly pathetic. I too can figure that broken melody, those searching harmonies, which seem to vibrate
                        through the secret places of one's most innermost being, as the utterance of
                        some exquisite woman, artist by nature, saint through the constraining power
                        of adverse circumstance, as she realises for some brief but hideous instants
                        the eternal anguish, the glory of her own self-dedication.”
                    “It's all very fine, I daresay,” Leversedge said; “but, upon my honour, if
                        this sort of thing goes on the kicking will have to take place sooner than I
                        expected.”
                    Gerrard turned towards us, his face projecting itself as a livid platelike
                        object from the encompassing obscurity.
                    “I beg your pardon, I did not quite catch what you were saying, Mr.
                        Leversedge; you were good enough to remark?”
                    “Oh! my remark will keep until a more convenient season,” the other answered.
                        “When that season arrives I shall have the greatest pleasure, I assure you,
                        in repeating it with appropriate action.”
                    But here Charlotte Perry's hands most opportunely descended with a crash upon
                        the piano.
                    The young lady's melting mood seemed to have passed, giving place to a very
                        different humour. What she played during the ensuing ten to fifteen minutes
                        I do not know. I never heard it before; I am more than willing never to hear it again. I suppose it must have
                        been a tarantella, but a tarantella conceived in a madhouse. It gave me a
                        nightmarish impression of innumerable tormented, shrieking, human figures
                        whirling in a desperate and formless dance—driven hither and thither in
                        purposeless fashion, like desert sand by an evil wind. It was exciting, for
                        it took one into the region of utter lawlessness; and that region is always
                        exciting, however undesirable. This was decidedly exciting, but it was not
                        quite nice.
                    Miss Perry lent herself whole-heartedly to the spirit of the music. I trust I
                        am far from being a prude, but there are limits, and she passed them. Her
                        playing was not quite nice. Perhaps, therefore,—I have confessed to a
                        dislike of the man,—it stirred Gerrard's somewhat sluggish blood. I watched
                        him rise, and move slowly close to the side of the grand piano, facing the
                        girl as she played—his squat person a blot of deeper darkness against the
                        dark.
                    Leversedge made a movement also. I fancied he did not relish the performance,
                        and was going out on to the balcony to escape somewhat from it; but he
                        merely stepped into the middle of the window, while his shadow, crossing
                        that of the iron balustrade, lay right along the carpet of the room almost
                        to where the skirt of Miss Perry's light dress trailed back from the music
                        stool.
                    
                    The music grew in vehemence and force, in violence of discordant sounds;
                        while the human figures it conjured up before me seemed to become more
                        wanton in the passion of their dance.
                    The thing was unpleasant. I wished it would stop. It affected me
                        uncomfortably, it agitated me. I could not remain quite still. I began
                        fidgetting with the scalloped frills of good Mrs. Perry's puce silk pillows,
                        while I meditated upon the extraordinary divergence of nature exhibited by
                        the mother and daug hter. Kindly and estimable clock-moon! by what strange
                        workings of heredity had she contrived to produce this young creature,
                        possessed as she just now appeared to be, by the spirit of a fin de siècle Bacchante?
                    Just then Leversedge spoke. He was close to me. His voice was
                        hoarse.—“Hammond,” he said, “would you mind keeping your hand away from that
                        cushion?”
                    I looked up at him in some surprise. He had turned sideways and the light
                        took his profile. His face had changed notably in the last few minutes. It
                        had grown thin, and, as once before, his lips stood away from his teeth.
                    “By all means, my dear fellow,” I answered, “if you wish it. But why? Is
                        anything the matter?”
                    “The dog's the matter,” Leversedge said quietly. “It's sitting on that
                        cushion. It's just jumped up.”
                    
                    I glanced at the cushion and then back at Leversedge. For an instant I
                        doubted whether he was chaffing; though, considering our former discourses
                        upon this subject, it occurred to me as improbable he should indulge in so
                        grim a joke at his own expense. But that one glance assured me very
                        completely he was very far from chaffing. I debated inwardly what could be
                        done—whether it was possible to demonstrate convincingly to Leversedge, once
                        and for all, that he laboured under an hallucination. But the wicked spirit
                        which infected Miss Perry's playing, and expressed itself in that chaotic
                        clamour, still agitated me and rendered it difficult to me to think clearly.
                        I am afraid I made a disastrous mistake. If I did so, let it be put down, in
                        part at all events, to the Witches' Sabbath of sound assailing my ears and
                        plaguing my brain, and not exclusively to my inborn stupidity.
                    “Believe me, you are dreaming,” I said. “I give you my word there is nothing
                        whatever upon that cushion.”
                    “I am not lying, anyhow,” Leversedge answered rather hastily. “You are behind
                        it, so of course you can't see. Come round—stand here—now look.”
                    So, to humour him I got up and stood beside him, while Charlotte Perry
                        played, still played.
                    “There now,” he went on,—“now you can see its eyes. You must see them; they're plain enough, I'm sure. And look how the
                        silk of the cushion gives under the beast's haunches and under its
                        forefeet.”
                    And I stared obediently,—at what? Merely the little crumples left by the
                        impress of good Mrs. Perry's solid shoulders—little wandering lines of
                        light, that appeared to me as abundantly pathetic, abundantly absurd, taken
                        in connection with the supernatural horror whose presence they were declared
                        to indicate.
                    “Heaven forbid I should seem to call your veracity in question,” I exclaimed;
                        “but, indeed, I see nothing. My dear friend, you are the victim of an
                        optical or cerebral delusion—I suppose the two mean much the same thing—as I
                        have told you all along. No dog, no nothing, is there, and I can prove it to
                        you.”
                    Certainly Leversedge never showed to better advantage than under extreme
                        pressure. If his courtesy failed for an instant, he recovered speedily and
                        very gracefully. Now his lips gave, and he smiled at me in that singularly
                        longsuffering way of his.
                    “I am afraid not, though I wish to goodness you could,” he said. “No, no; for
                        mercy's sake don't touch it!” His voice dropped.—“It smells—the
                        brute—to-night it smells—your hands will never feel clean again.”
                    
                    I own it required a little nerve, for I was shaken by that violent and
                        ceaseless music, and Leversedge's tone and manner were calculated to produce
                        faith in the most sceptical mind; still, I did sweep my hand down slowly
                        over the surface of the cushion. And, of course, it encountered no
                        resistance. How could it, since, as I had affirmed, nothing, absolutely
                        nothing, was there?
                    “You see,” I said.
                    He shook his head.
                    “It got away; it jumped down,” he replied. “Anyhow, I am thankful you did not
                        touch it.”
                    Argument is wasted upon a man in this frame of mind. Yet I was pushed by the
                        desire to convince him. I paused, asking myself what on earth I could do or
                        say next. Meanwhile Miss Perry's playing became slower, more broken, full of
                        wailing; as though the dance had changed to a Danse
                            Macabre, and Death was breaking their ranks, bearing away or
                        beating down those lawless dancers. Gerrard moved a little nearer, he bent
                        over and talked to the girl, the occasionally shrill tones of his voice,
                        which still appeared to be under insufficient control, mingling oddly with
                        her playing.
                    Suddenly a cry—it was exceedingly dreadful, it turned me cold and sick—broke
                        in through the rhythm of the music, and Leversedge rushed past me across the
                        room. The train of Charlotte Perry's dress
                        lay out pale over the floor; and he kicked it, stamped on it, trampled it
                        under foot. The music stopped with a harsh discord, and, without rising, the
                        girl turned half round on the music stool, stretching out her hands as
                        though to save herself and push him from her.
                    “Constantine, Constantine, what has happened? Pray calm yourself. What are
                        you doing?” she demanded.
                    For all answer he took her up bodily in his arms,—I had no conception the man
                        was so strong,—shook her, as you might shake out a handkerchief on which a
                        spider or some other noxious insect was crawling; carried her right out on
                        to the balcony into the full glare of the electric light; and stood there
                        holding her close against him as he might have held a child.
                    “My sweet,” I heard him say, his voice broken by emotion; “my sweet, forgive
                        me. I am so rough, I must seem to you such a brute. But that vile thing took
                        refuge beside you. It was upon your gown,—it was upon your knees. I saw its
                        eyes here—oh! my God, my God, the unspeakable desecration of it—its hateful
                        head was against your dear bosom.”
                    Leversedge's voice sank away into a whisper. He kissed the girl's eyes, her
                        throat, as she lay in his arms. And then suddenly, as it seemed,
                        recollecting himself, he set her down very gently on her feet, and turned round with a terrible
                        face upon Percy Gerrard, who stood nearest the window.
                    “Go,” he said, “you are not wanted here. We have had too much of you all
                        along.”
                    The distinguished journalist retired in some haste; he was not by nature a
                        fire-eater—save on paper. I followed him. The girl was safe, and, for the
                        rest, I wanted neither to hear nor see more. Indeed, I had heard and seen
                        too much already. It is hardly decent to witness the outcry of a
                        fellow-creature in such awful straits. The joys of the Puritan, in heaven,
                        are multiplied sevenfold by listening to the cries of the damned which reach
                        him from across the Great Gulf; but I am not made of such iron stuff that my
                        personal comfort is enchanced by articulate misery on the part of others. I
                        am afraid I advanced rather unceremoniously upon Percy Gerrard.
                    “Here are matches,” I said; “for pity's sake help me light the candles, and
                        then disappear as soon as possible.”
                    Gerrard's nerves appeared to have suffered. His squat hands fumbled awkwardly
                        with the box of matches as he tried to strike them, and his smooth hair
                        looked positively dank.
                    “The man is insane,” he quavered. “I told her so. I knew it.”
                    “Mr. Hammond!”—Charlotte Perry clutched my arm.
                    
                    During the extraordinary scene we had just assisted at she had behaved with
                        really magnificent composure, neither calling out nor struggling. I could
                        not but admire her courage. She was composed still; but she gripped me like
                        a vice, the points of her fingers digging themselves into my arm, while her
                        pretty face was blanched and sharpened. The maternal element was wholly
                        banished. The rat had it all his own way; and what a rat—strong, astute,
                        almost alarming!
                    “Remember you are bound to obey me,” she said; “you have promised, and I hold
                        you to your promise.”
                    Gerrard came close to her.
                    “I was not mistaken, you see,” he murmured.
                    Charlotte Perry looked at him for a moment with the strangest expression.
                    “Good-night,” she said. Then she addressed me again. “My parents must know
                        nothing of what has just taken place. You must be silent; you
                        understand—absolutely silent. And you must leave us, please. You cannot help
                        now except by being silent. Later, perhaps,—good-night.”
                
            
            
                
                PHASE THIRD
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    IT was not, I must admit, without a certain movement of relief I
                        learned, on inquiry, from the head waiter—who graciously condescended
                        himself to serve my breakfast on the verandah outside the salle à manger—next morning, that Leversedge
                        had left for Geneva by the first train.
                    As I have remarked already, I adore drama. It is among the best of the
                        several good things of life; but it is, I must add, among the good things of
                        which it is quite possible to have enough. And I had really had about enough
                        of it on the previous evening. I hailed a pause. I did more. I took an early
                        boat to Evian, and refreshed my soul by a Platonic luncheon—in a
                        delightfully cool atmosphere both physical and sentimental—in company with
                        the friend who does not enter into this history, and whom, therefore, I have already expressed a desire to
                        leave out of it. Coming back, since the afternoon was very charming, instead
                        of crossing directly to Ouchy, I took the boat to the head of the lake. The
                        chestnut woods above St. Gingolph held the sunshine in an enchanting manner,
                        I remember. I wished to think about these woods, about the humours of my
                        fellow-passengers, about the gossip of the fair friend from whom I had just
                        parted; but, unfortunately, I found it impossible wholly to banish memories
                        of, and speculations concerning, the Perry-Leversedge situation from my
                        mind. The occasions upon which one witnesses strong emotion in real life are
                        rare, and that which one does witness on such rare occasions is haunting. It
                        was borne in upon me how very much more effective and penetrating strong
                        emotion is off, than on, the stage; how nature, notwithstanding her obvious
                        crudities, strikes home, as art, I deeply regret to allow it, never can.
                    Last night Leversedge had been fine. Charlotte Perry had been fine—with a
                        difference. Even Gerrard had played a telling part, in his own objectionable
                        way. And there I paused. For my own action appeared to me wholly insipid. I
                        had occupied the inglorious position of the “buffer state.” Only once had I
                        taken the initiative, and then with what disastrous results! I could not, moreover, acquit myself of a certain
                        pusillanimity in leaving Miss Perry, though she did, I own, appear perfectly
                        equal to managing her own affairs. No, I was not proud of myself. And then
                        little incidents began to recur to me which were somewhat incomprehensible.
                        In that matter of putting out the lights, now, was it a plant?—had there
                        been any collusion between Percy Gerrard and Miss Perry?
                    I was busy with this difficult and not very pleasing problem when, on
                        trans-shipping at Villeneuve, Mr. Perry himself hailed my advent upon the
                        upper deck of the lake-boat.
                    “Well met!” he cried. “As ever the truly welcome friend.”
                    There was, if I may put it so, an air of high-class-bank-holiday about Mr.
                        Perry. It is an air calculated to render a hearty reception by the possessor
                        of it peculiarly gratifying to one, specially when the said reception
                        happens to take place in public. The occupants of the benches under the
                        awning—the lean and active Americans; the large and affectionate Germans;
                        the English clergy in mufti, surrounded by their harems; even those very
                        superior persons, the schoolmasters in knickerbockers, bearing the
                        impressive effect of universal proprietorship which covers them immediately
                        upon crossing the channel, and remains so engagingly by them until they regain their native shore,—even these
                        turned to gaze at Mr. Perry and my all too greatly honoured self. Mr. Perry
                        had a courier bag slung across his shoulders; under one arm he carried a
                        bulky white umbrella. He had field-glasses in his hand. To-day, alas! he
                        wore a new hat. It was high, made of soft grey felt, and had a deep cleft,
                        an absolute ravine, down the middle of the crown. Of all European countries
                        known to me, Switzerland undoubtedly produces the most unholy headgear, both
                        male and female. Mr. Perry's hat was of local manufacture. It was
                        surrounded, moreover, by a black and white pugaree that had seen service,
                        the stringy ends of it streaming afar upon the breeze as the little man
                        perambulated the deck.
                    Mr. Perry was full of conversation.
                    “I am here with my daughter,” he told me. “She is unstrung, Mr.
                        Hammond,—slightly unstrung. Perfect health, really perfect, I assure you;
                        but a delicate, a highly nervous organisation. And marriage is a serious
                        step; it is, I think I may even say, an arduous undertaking—for some of us,
                        I am sure, very arduous. To leave home and kindred, to quit the dear old
                        family roof”—(at Château Perry, one
                        wondered, did they habitually camp out, catlike, among the
                        chimney-pots?),—“must of necessity cause a pang,—aye, more than one—quite a
                            number of pangs in fact, to any highly
                        sensitive heart.”
                    I expressed my regret for Miss Perry's indisposition, and added a hope it was
                        but of a passing, character.
                    “I trust so,” he replied. “But I cannot disguise from myself that my daughter
                        appears depressed. These delicate young creatures are so full of feeling— 
                            Fair English girl, whose mantling cheek
                            Forbids the words her lips would speak.
                         Yes, yes—so I invited her to come out with me. And Mamma approved the
                        plan, I am happy to state,—entirely approved it. The aspect of outward
                        nature upon this truly glorious summer afternoon would, I felt convinced,
                        prove an antidote to gloomy thoughts. And hence you find us here, Mr.
                        Hammond,—hence you find us; and very happy indeed we are to be found, I can
                        assure you.”
                    While making these pleasing remarks, Mr. Perry pursued his course along the
                        deck towards the stern of the boat. The wooded precipices behind Chillon
                        fled away upon our left. Before us stretched out the immense, blue
                        perspective of the Rhone Valley. Vast shadows lay across it, soft and misty;
                        while here and there the flanks of the great hills, a row of balsam poplars
                        on the flat, or the windows of a châlet
                        caught the mellow brightness of the western sun. Everybody knows the view
                        very well; still it remains delicious—delicious even though Perry père, in the tones of one returning thanks for
                        the bridesmaids at a suburban wedding-breakfast, prattles at one's side.
                    “I am myself aware,” he continued, “how when harassed by the calls of
                        business and by those anxieties which the fluctuations of the money market
                        necessarily produce in the breast even of the most sanguine and the most
                        solvent,—I am aware how a few hours, spent in one of the sequestered country
                        spots, of which our dear sea-girt land supplies so many charming examples,
                        will restore a measure of energy to the jaded nervous system, and promote a
                        healthy, hopeful outlook upon our present form of existence. For though,”
                        cried Mr. Perry, drawing himself up in a bold and reckless manner, and
                        slipping his disengaged hand in between the buttons of his insufficiently
                        brushed waistcoat,—“though through circumstances I occupy the position of a
                        peaceful citizen, I am by nature a roamer. These snowy summits seem to call
                        me—”
                    Here he waved his field-glasses dramatically towards the circle of mountains
                        closing in the head of the valley.
                    “I envy the agile chamois leaping from rock
                        to rock with dilated nostril. I long to inhale the invigorating atmosphere
                        of those amazing altitudes. And the ocean, again,” added Mr. Perry; “the
                        sound of it is, as I may say, positively in my blood. Often in my boyhood— 
                            Dear bygone time when youth's enchanted hand
                            Smoothed the light curl, caressed the candid brow—”
                        
                    Here he smiled with a kind of a noble coyness.—“Often in my boyhood, when
                        pacing the arid London pavement, have I paused and picked up a whelk dropped
                        from the barrow of the itinerant coster; and, holding the home of the humble
                        mollusc to my ear, have found solace and sweet suggestion of liberty in the
                        murmur of the shell. Poetry, my dear Mr. Hammond, believe me, in the end we
                        must all come back to that,—and a very wholesome thing it is to come back
                        to, I'm sure, very wholesome.”
                    We turned, and I perceived the daughter of my eloquent companion in the open
                        space at the far end of the deck, beyond the shadow of the awning. She was
                        seated upon a low camp-stool, at a distance from all the other passengers, a
                        study in brown-holland, under a large black and yellow parasol. Nobody was
                        in attendance. Miss Perry for once was alone.
                    “Mamma, now, is different,” resumed Mr. Perry. “Travel for her has few
                        attractions. A home-loving nature, the
                        fireside, the bright flower border, the prolific vegetable garden,—these
                        content the heart of Mamma, as does the round of her domestic duties.—‘A wet
                        sheet and a flowing sail’—fine old song that, Mr. Hammond, and full of the
                        true British nautical spirit—exercise no fascination over her. And so we
                        left her at the hotel this afternoon; we did not bring her with us. Indeed,”
                        he added, lowering his voice, “I may tell you, in confidence, Mr.
                        Hammond,—you, are a man of the world, which is equivalent to saying that you
                        know something of the feminine nature,—I was not altogether sorry to part my
                        two ladies for a little while to-day, not altogether sorry to part them. A
                        passing cloud, no more,—I am sure quite passing,—crossed the face, as I may
                        say, of our family happiness. Just a momentary lack of unanimity of
                        sentiment between the child and her maternal parent. Mamma had heard
                        rumours—the confused indiscretion of an officious chambermaid—the sex will
                        gossip, as you know—of something that happened last night.”
                    Mr. Perry looked sharply at me.
                    “Last night?—Indeed?” I said.
                    “A—in short—a scene—” repeated Mr. Perry.
                    “A scene?” I inquired.
                    “You were there, I believe, Mr. Hammond.”
                    “Certainly, I was there all the time. Your
                        daughter played to us as—well, as I really think only your daughter can
                        play.”
                    The boat slowed up at the debarcadère of
                        Territet-Chillon, just below the extensive constructions of the Grand Hôtel des Alpes. Mr. Perry held on to the
                        starboard railings and scrutinised the on-coming passengers. Among them
                        chanced to be the retired Deputy Surgeon-General of the Madras Army, his
                        face showing leaden under his white solar topee. Mr. Perry leaned out over
                        the starboard railing and signalled to him with his umbrella. Then he
                        addressed me again.
                    “You relieve me of anxiety,” he said,—“greatly relieve me. Mrs. Perry is
                        slightly wanting in diplomacy at times; and she has, perhaps, views of the
                        duties of a chaperon belonging to less advanced and cultivated social
                        conditions than those in which it is the habit of our daughter to move. She
                        questioned Charlotte.”
                    Again Mr. Perry looked very sharply at me.
                    “A mistake,” he added, “and one which I myself should have been incapable of
                        committing—though not perhaps an unnatural one in an anxious mother. And—ah!
                        here is our good friend the doctor. Botanising I see, as usual. No naughty
                        poppies, I trust, annoying your eye in those delightful Alpine solitudes—ah!
                        ha—eh, no naughty poppies?”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER II
                    I APPROACHED Miss Perry. Her reception of me was not enthusiastic;
                        in fact for some seconds she appeared unaware of my presence. She had taken
                        off her large, lace hat and thrown it on the deck beside her. Her face and
                        upper portion of her figure were shaded by her parasol; the yellow and black
                        frills of which, like the short curly hair about her forehead and the nape
                        of her neck, were uplifted and softly dropped again by the warm wind. Her
                        head was turned away; I could only see the outline of her cheek. She had, I
                        remember, unfastened the collar of her yellow silk blouse, thereby exposing
                        rather more of her throat than is customary in morning dress. A bunch of
                        buttercups was stuck in her waistband. They drooped with the heat, some were
                        crushed and broken, as though in sympathy with their wearer. For Miss Perry
                        drooped too, was crushed too. Her whole attitude betokened this in the most
                        touching manner. To recognise in this withdrawn and pensive figure the
                        player of the evil witch-music of last night, or the very capable woman who had bidden me, so peremptorily, leave
                        her to manage her own affairs, was a heavy tax on my imagination. If change
                        is essential to charm in woman, then Miss Perry was triumphantly charming,
                        for her capacity of change was Protean.
                    As the steamer-bell ceased ringing and the decks began to vibrate with the
                        working of the engines, Miss Perry turned her head. She gazed at me mutely.
                        Her eyes were full of tears, her dark eyelashes were gathered into little
                        points by those she had already shed.
                    “You do not care to talk,” I said. “Your father tells me you are over-tired.
                        You would rather have me go away.”
                    “No,” she replied. “There are things of which I must speak to you. I should
                        not myself perhaps have chosen to-day, for I have hardly arranged my thought
                        as yet. I can hardly see my trouble, or my action, still less my future”—the
                        girl paused, and two tears rolled slowly down over her pretty red-brown
                        cheeks—“in perspective. It is all too close to me as yet. Still, perhaps
                        this opportunity is given me purposely; I dare not reject it. It is
                        improbable we shall often see each other alone again.”
                    I had not been feeling altogether friendly towards Charlotte Perry. I had
                        doubted her, and that on rather ugly grounds. And I had not the least
                        proposed that our interview should be of a
                        sentimental character. But listening to her modest hesitating speech, seeing
                        her evident distress, of course I softened towards her and was moved to
                        sympathy. I am not a stock or a stone, so, how the devil could I help
                        it?
                    “Whatever course events may take,” I protested, “it will not be my fault if
                        we do not meet often hereafter.”
                    “You are hopeful because to you it is a light matter,” said Miss Perry.
                    “On the contrary, I am hopeful because I am in a normal condition, and am
                        therefore qualified to judge of the probabilities of things. You are
                        somewhat over-tired.”
                    “Yes, I am cruelly tired,” the girl assented.
                    “Then be advised, my dear young lady, and do not overtax yourself with the
                        discussion of burning questions just now. Tell me whether you slept—no?
                        Well, I almost feared as much,—and then let me do my poor best to entertain
                        you. Let me talk to you about the weather; about our compagnons de voyage, whose voices reverberate so pleasingly
                        under that truly beautiful tin awning; about our friend Clement Bartlett's
                        new play, of which Carr writes me word that it is to be a brilliant
                        success.—Picture that! The foolish things of this world do indeed confound
                        the wise at times! Your memory happily cannot carry you back to that
                        prehistoric period, but I well remember
                        Clement's first appearance. Like the man in ‘The Egoist,’ he ‘had a leg,’
                        but this appeared to me to constitute the whole of his dramatic outfit. And
                        now we are called upon to hail him as the coming play-wright!”
                    “Is it quite kind always to—to scoff?” Charlotte Perry asked very softly.
                    “Poor dear Bartlett has survived so many smiles that one more will not
                        greatly affect him—specially as he will remain serenely unaware of it.
                        Moreover, I am past the appeals of friendship at this moment; I would
                        ruthlessly offer up the reputation of my nearest and dearest to afford you a
                        little amusement.”
                    Whereat to my extreme embarrassment the girl bowed her head, dragged her
                        handkerchief out of the bosom of her blouse, and fell to weeping in a
                        perfectly audible manner.
                    “Pray, pray don't, my dear Miss Perry, this is too distressing; pray control
                        yourself,” I feebly entreated.
                    “It is always the same,” she moaned—really my position was rather
                        frightful!—“I had hoped that for once you would understand, and treat me
                        seriously—after last night. But it is useless. Nothing makes any difference.
                        You always play with me—because, at heart, you always despise me.”
                    “Despise you?—good heavens! of what imbecility have I been guilty now, that
                        you should imagine I despise you?”
                    
                    “When I saw you coming,” she sobbed, “I knew it would be very painful—I could
                        not speak at first—but I thought that the opportunity had been given me, and
                        that I should gain strength, and tell you; and that you would approve for
                        once—just for once-and that would be my compensation—but—”
                    As fate would have it, there was a vacant camp-stool near by. I fetched it. I
                        sat down beside Charlotte Perry. I took her parasol and held it over her.
                        All of which was radically unwise; but under the circumstances what man of
                        feeling could be a slave to discretion, that possibly better, but certainly
                        very cold-blooded, part of valour? The sun was scorching, so that the
                        Americans and Germans, the clergy with their feminine appendages, and even
                        the possessive schoolmasters, preferred the shelter of the awning to the
                        glare of the open deck. For this I returned heartfelt thanks. Close scrutiny
                        would have been intolerably disconcerting just then.
                    “Now tell me anything and everything you like,” I said recklessly. “I have
                        been an idiot in trying to divert your attention to indifferent
                        matters.”
                    Charlotte Perry turned to me with streaming eyes. She was among the very few
                        women I have ever known who are not spoiled by crying. I instinctively
                        tilted the parasol so as to shelter us
                        both, not so much from the rays of the sun, as from the remark of possible
                        observers.
                    “I asked bread of you, and you seemed to give me a stone. It was too hard. I
                        lost myself—”
                    “No wonder, you are over-wrought,” I answered. “You went through a most
                        agitating experience last night, and behaved—you will not think me guilty of
                        impertinence in referring to this?—with a courage beyond all praise.”
                    The girl's mouth gathered into that strangely seductive sketch of a kiss.
                    “Ah! how precious it is to hear you say that!” she—I don't like the word, it
                        has a suspicion of vulgarity about it, nevertheless I must employ it—she
                        whispered.
                    I began to speak, I was on the edge of committing myself to statements of a
                        vastly foolish description, but Miss Perry stopped me by raising her
                        hand.
                    “Be silent, I implore you,—be silent. That was a slip. It would be unworthy
                        of you to notice it, knowing that I am, as you said just now, over-wrought.
                        Put it down to my sleepless night, and overlook it.”
                    She paused, and I feared the tears would again break forth. But in a moment
                        she continued, with really angelic gentleness—
                    “All that is closed, finished. After the events of last night, finished for
                        ever. Only sometimes, for an instant, one
                        forgets. If you have once dreamed very vividly of a great good, the dream
                        comes back upon you, even in your most cruelly wakeful hours; don't you
                        think so?”
                    “How can I answer you?” I inquired, feeling rather like a knave and most
                        completely like a fool.
                    “Don't attempt to answer,” she said. “Truly, it is kinder not to do so.
                        Listen, that is all I ask, and if you can, encourage and approve. The
                        hope”—her voice sank away again in a caressing cadence—“the hope of your
                        approval has, I am afraid,—for it is very weak of me,—been the mainspring of
                        my action.”
                    “You humiliate me,” I protested.
                    The girl smiled at me through her tears in the most beguiling manner.
                    “Had the circumstances of our meeting been different,” I said
                        desperately,—“had you been free to listen to proposals, which I was equally
                        and honourably free to make, the result of our acquaintance—”
                    “Don't,” she cried, shutting her eyes, and pressing her hands to either side
                        of her charming head. “This is a superfluous torture. Again I entreat you to
                        be silent. I am bound irrevocably. I bound myself last night, after you
                        went. Constantine was in a terrible condition. Upon his frenzy—which you
                        witnessed—there followed an alarming
                        prostration. In one and the same breath he told me—is it indelicate to tell
                        you this?—that he should die without me, and implored me to break with him.
                        He said it was wicked to marry me, and yet declared that without me he would
                        die. Indeed, I feared he would destroy himself.”
                    She waited, shuddering, closing her eyes, again pressing her hands against
                        her head.
                    “I realised clearly, for the first time, what a frightful future must
                        inevitably lie before me,” she continued, speaking slowly and in hesitating
                        accents, while she gazed into the vague, over the glittering expanse of the
                        great lake.—“I felt, and for the first time dreaded, the gloom which must
                        for ever envelop us—I and he. We shall travel through life with this malign
                        and supernatural companion; and what repose, what security, what possibility
                        of spontaneous and fearless gladness can there be in such a life? For I
                        shall be for ever face to face with the probability of a dark and swift
                        catastrophe.”
                    “Catastrophe?” I said.
                    “Assuredly,” Miss Perry answered. “My nerves are not of ircn, though I am
                        strong. Eventually they will give under the strain put upon them. Even the
                        most reasonable mind must be affected by constant contact with unreason. At
                        last I may—I shall—be infected by the terror which haunts my husband. To me,
                        also, it will take on bodily form, and
                        then Constantine will kill—kill—either me or himself.”
                    I was stricken by sudden compunction. After all, one human being is as good
                        as another in a certain sense; each life is of supreme value to its
                        possessor; all have equal rights. Why, in the eternal justice of things,
                        should this pretty and clever girl be required to pay the price of her
                        lover's singular misfortune? He adored her, I know; but did that create so
                        tremendous an obligation on her side? It might be very fairly argued that he
                        adored her to please himself.
                    “Leversedge is right. You must not marry him,” I cried, with conviction.
                        “Poor, dear fellow, it is tragic for him, horribly tragic; but you are in no
                        degree responsible for that. You must not marry him; the risk is too great.
                        You must cancel your engagement.”
                    “No, no,” she answered. “I must not cancel my engagement. It must stand. I
                        must marry him—and at once.”
                    In the excitement of the conversation we had both risen to our feet. We stood
                        near each other, and for a perceptible space of time looked full at each
                        other. The girl's cheeks were flushed; her eyes were swimming in tears, yet
                        they danced. Charlotte Perry was brilliant just then,—the wind ruffling her
                        abundant hair, while her hands plucked almost fiercely at the drooping
                        buttercups in her belt.
                    
                    “Are you afraid of your handiwork,” she asked me; “afraid of it at last?”
                    “My handiwork?—I am very honestly afraid of your happiness being
                        wrecked.”
                    “Ah! that is wrecked already,” she answered softly. “Now I am only trying to
                        save what poor remnant is possible of saving from the wreck.—I do not
                        reproach you, though it is your doing. No—don't protest; you told me you
                        would listen. Keep your promise, that is only just. Listen—I perceive only
                        one way to gain your respect, perhaps your admiration. It is a bitter
                        way—flesh and blood can hardly endure it—yet I take it. Constantine is your
                        friend, not I. I am interesting to you, have been so from the first, merely
                        on account of the relation in which I stand to him.”
                    Miss Perry lowered her eyes; she picked the buttercups to pieces one by one,
                        scattering their green stems and shining yellow petals upon the grey-drab
                        planks of the deck.
                    “You think lightly of me—do not deny it. I know I speak the truth. You
                        criticise me at every turn; you consider my breeding doubtful, my taste
                        doubtful. You question my sincerity. You cheapen my talents—in your own
                        mind—I do not say you do all this openly, you are too gentleman-like to fall
                        into that error. But being idle, you amuse your leisure by casting me up and
                            dividing me out. For Constantine you
                        really care, so you do not sacrifice him to your rage for analysis; I
                        understand that.—No—do not interrupt me. I must say it all, all this once.
                        You think me worldly, scheming, a mere actress. By marrying Constantine, by
                        yielding myself up unreservedly to the horror which encircles him, I can
                        vindicate myself; I can prove to you that you have misjudged me, and that I
                        am very far from being the cheap, artificial, half-hearted adventuress you
                        have supposed me to be.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER III
                    ONE does not, unfortunately, arrive at my time of life without
                        having been in some tight places; but no place, I solemnly declare, that I
                        have ever been in quite equalled this one for tightness. It pinched me most
                        exceedingly shrewdly. For all that which Miss Perry had said was true—true,
                        every word of it!—And we had passed the stage of acquaintance when one can
                        successfully take refuge in denial. Not even lying of the most barefaced and
                        unblushing character would extricate me from the very ungraceful predicament
                        in which my companion's frankness had placed me.
                    I do not often lose my temper; but now a certain exasperation seized on me.
                        For was it not really a little too bad that this charming person should thus
                        lock the door on me and set her back against it? It is disgusting to me to
                        be compelled to handle a woman other than courteously. Yet, unless I
                        exercised something of brutal masculine force in removing her, how on earth
                        was I to get the door open and make good my escape?
                    
                    “My dear young lady,—my dear young lady, you cover me with shame and
                        confusion!” I cried. “You appear to do me the unhappy compliment of
                        attaching an importance to my possible, or rather impossible, opinion—for
                        the opinion with which you accredit me is positively preposterous—quite
                        deliriously above its value.”
                    The girl pressed her hands to the sides of her head again.
                    “I am so tired,” she said. “It is all finished, as I told you. I have burnt
                        my ships, I have accepted my lot. Why then try to juggle with me? Why, above
                        all, why be ungenerous and beg the question?”
                    “Good heavens!” I exclaimed, “it is not I who beg the question. It is you,
                        dear Miss Perry, who beg it, while I am trying to introduce a trifle of
                        common sense into the consideration of it.”
                    She turned away, letting her arms drop at her sides, and stared over the bows
                        of the lake-boat, now heading in towards the row of great Lombardy poplars
                        which line the gay little quay and marketplace of Montreux.
                    “I implore you, in the name of reason, to leave all thought of me out of the
                        business.”
                    For an instant Miss Perry looked at me.
                    “But how can I?”—I cannot actually assert that I heard those words, but her
                        quivering lips appeared to form them.
                    
                    “Granting, for the sake of argument, even,” I went on, “that I have been
                        idiot enough to think, in any degree, any one of the stupidities of which
                        you accuse me, what does that signify as against the very real and serious
                        matter of your marriage? You are—pardon my saying so—straining at a gnat and
                        swallowing a camel with a vengeance. Bear with me if I speak plainly.—Marry
                        Constantine Leversedge because he loves you, if you wish to do an heroic act
                        of kindness. Still better, marry him because you love him, and pity carries
                        the day over fear.”
                    “Ah! how little you understand,” murmured Miss Perry.
                    Really, I believe at times I have the right to congratulate myself on
                        possessing miraculous strength of character. Or is it only the strength of
                        alarm, not of character—the daring of the proverbial turning-worm, the
                        valour of the proverbial mouse in a corner? I can't decide. Anyhow, I
                        finished my address.
                    “But to marry him as proof to me that you are not the kind of person you
                        imagine I imagine you possibly may be, is absurd and grotesque, an
                        unspeakable and impossible folly. You cannot be guilty of it. I refuse to
                        permit you to be guilty of it.”
                    “And how will you prevent my being guilty of it?” the fair Charlotte asked,
                        with rather astonishing composure.
                    
                    The flower-like, the dewy, the early, early morning and exquisitely virginal
                        effect seemed suddenly to have passed away from Miss Perry. The change in
                        her was unseizable—to roughly translate an untranslatable Gallicism—but I
                        was keenly aware of its presence.
                    “Tell my poor dear parents what you have just told me. At first they will
                        neither believe nor understand you. You will involve yourself in a series of
                        silly wordy scenes, which will make our party the comedy of the whole hotel.
                        Tell Constantine—that will be very simple—he will destroy himself.”
                    She paused.
                    “And, meanwhile, you will have the inward satisfaction of continuing to think
                        of me just what you have always thought. I do not propose to give you that
                        satisfaction.”
                    “Are you not slightly vindictive?” I inquired. “It was not nice of me. It was
                        a lapse of good manners. But, upon my honour, I could not help it.”
                    Miss Perry put one hand over her eyes, and threw back her head. Her throat
                        was round, firm, the colour of it a warm, delicate brown—delicious in the
                        sunshine, which—for I am afraid I was shamefully neglecting my office of
                        umbrella bearer—enveloped her graceful figure from head to heel.
                    “You are certainly ungenerous,” she retorted. “But all men are that, I believe, if an unhappy woman so far forgets
                        conventionality as to obey the dictates of— No, pass that by. Forget what I
                        was nearly betrayed into saying. I should be thankful to forget it myself.
                        Let us reason together coldly and sensibly, since that is your pleasure; and
                        I will show you why you cannot and must not seek to alter my
                        resolution.”
                    Again Charlotte Perry's bright eyes filled, again she spoke in modest,
                        hesitating accents.
                    “You know how hard society is, how basely commonplace in its judgments, how
                        blind to high purposes, how sceptical of pure and elevated motives. You know
                        how it hates to have its imagination taxed by action that is touched by
                        ideality. You are a poet, you must have suffered from all this at times, and
                        so you must have seen how, if a woman—it is very painful to me to speak on
                        this subject—if a woman leaves her home because the demands made upon her
                        are degrading, or because her husband is wicked, or because, like the
                        heroine of Ibsen's wonderful drama, she revolts against the narrow
                        conditions and paltry occupations of domestic life, society looks doubtfully
                        upon her, other women flout her and draw aside their skirts. Even should she
                        give herself to philanthropy or enter a religious house, she is still
                        suspect. But if she leaves her home because she pleases some other man,
                        society looks not so very hardly on her
                        fault; often, in a little while, quite condones it. In the eyes of the
                        great, coarse, everyday world we are your slaves yet. Success with a man,
                        that a man should desire us, in a measure justifies even the most scandalous
                        conduct.”
                    Pausing in the midst of this surprising essay upon contemporary morals, Miss
                        Perry stooped and picked up her hat. She straightened herself up again, and
                        languidly drew the long pins out of the crown of it. Where was she coming
                        to? I felt very nervous. The door of escape was by no means open yet.
                    “It is very much the same with a girl's engagement,” she went on. “If she
                        cancels it because she discovers that she and the man whom she has promised
                        to marry are not calculated to realise what marriage might be—has sometimes
                        been—in all its exquisite completeness, in its profound though hidden
                        poetry; if she dreads to do violence to her own ideal of love, she is
                        accused of cruelty and caprice. Women treat her with a mixture of pity and
                        contempt. Men are familiar or surly with her. She is a failure, and society
                        has no mercy for failure. But if she breaks it off because someone else
                        cares for her, in obedience to his will, she is justified in the opinion of
                        the world, of her friends, of her parents—in that even of her rejected
                        admirer.”
                    
                    When Charlotte raised her eyes to mine again they were as stars of morning.
                        No wonder poor Leversedge worshipped her if, at times, she looked at him
                        thus! She was, indeed, of a quality to turn the steadiest head! At this
                        moment, in the wind and sunshine, the blue lake behind her, the pale deck
                        before, the gay little Swiss town—its quaintly carved gables and balconies,
                        its rows of emerald-green shutters and bright awnings, its line of
                        magnificent, quivering, whispering poplars,—sliding by on our right as the
                        steamer slowed up at the pier, Charlotte Perry had her moment of triumph,
                        she was absolutely and distractingly lovely.
                    “She is a success. Society smiles on her, fêtes and applauds her. For has she not upon her the
                        hall-mark which all will acknowledge? It is well to be loved by one man. It
                        is just doubly well to be loved by two. And—”
                    The girl stretched out her hands. Thank heaven there was a movement on board,
                        passengers acquiring hand-bags, umbrellas, impedimenta in general, prior to
                        disembarking, so nobody, I believed,—with relief, I believe so
                        still,—specially noticed our proceedings.
                    “And she is very, very grateful, Mr. Hammond. Her happiness is secured. It is
                        completed instead of being wrecked.”
                    These are things to turn one's hair grey, even contemplating them after a lapse of years. Let me
                        take breath!
                    So very much comes into this question of marriage that one's brain fairly
                        reels under it. For a woman it is probably, as Perry père remarked, “an arduous undertaking”; but for one of us,
                        oh my brothers, it is—well, what is it not? Personally, I am unfitted for a
                        primitive state of society, I know that. Were you to take off my clothes and
                        send me up a tree to pick nuts, I should go very hungry myself; while those
                        dependent upon me would almost certainly starve. Yet I look back, not
                        without yearning, to the epoch of primal innocence, when man and woman mated
                        gaily, parted gaily, even as those most delectable of living creatures, the
                        birds, do. For the bond of wedlock, as understood for many hundred years now
                        by the more civilised nations—specially those of the Anglo-Saxon race—adds a
                        terror to life. To pass two or three days in the Divorce Court would be
                        about as much to my taste as passing them in the Old Fleet Ditch; yet how
                        can a man of average sensibility be expected, at a given moment, to know and
                        make up his mind finally and irrevocably in respect of womanhood and the
                        affections? Aphrodite is a mighty and marvellous goddess. Who that has once,
                        in ever so small a degree, beheld her glory, shall dare worship her under a
                        single aspect only, or in a single place?
                    
                    Of course there is the ancient theory—does it not at least date from the days
                        of Aristophanes?—of the One Man—the One Woman; and I have laboured valiantly
                        to cherish it, since it appeared to offer a practical solution to my moral
                        and emotional difficulties. Like the hero of a certain evil and exquisite
                        romance, the title of which I refrain from mentioning, I set out early in
                        quest of the One Woman who should satisfy all my aspirations, all my tastes,
                        all—if you will have it—my latent masculine sensuality; who should dominate
                        me at first sight, who should hold me then and ever after. I have sought her
                        diligently, and—I admit it reluctantly, for it must sound most impertinently
                        fastidious—I am seeking her yet. This quest, indeed, has become a fixed idea
                        with me. It presents itself, as a matter of course, at sight of each new and
                        charming face—and the number of new and charming faces which offer
                        themselves for inspection is really delightfully great. It presents itself
                        even in respect of faces already fairly well known to me, under
                        circumstances of a peculiar or provocative character.
                    It presented itself very distinctly to me now, on the sunny deck of the
                        lake-boat, as Miss Perry's soft voice faltered, and she stretched out her
                        hands in that most moving action of appeal. She was so varied, so
                        captivating, so uncommonly clever, at times so deliciously pretty; her
                        prospects were of so dubiously hopeful and
                        encouraging a sort. And then, had she by chance spoken the truth, not only
                        in respect of my reading, but of my misreading, of her? Might not, by
                        chance, her picture of herself be a more faithful one than that which I—with
                        my wretched little habit of being too sharp by half in the ungracious
                        business of picking my neighbours to pieces—had drawn of her? Surely it was
                        very generous, after all my silent detraction and, at moments, my outspoken
                        disagreement, thus to give me another chance! And then the coercive, the
                        well-nigh irresistible, flattery of thus finding oneself the object of a
                        young and lovely person's affection! Is there anything on earth quite so
                        agreeable?—(For a little while, at all events. After the first blush of the
                        affair one usually becomes inconveniently sensible of make-weights and
                        conceivable complications)—No! I protest there is not.
                    And so it came about that, for the space of at least twenty seconds, I asked
                        myself quite seriously whether it was not possible that here, here in the
                        daughter of Perry père et mère, of the
                        lively rat and excellent clock-moon, improbable as it might appear at first
                        sight, I had found that which I had sought so long and vainly—the complement
                        of my nature, the comprehensively and perpetually seductive being, the, for
                        me, One Woman?
                    Those twenty seconds were immensely pleasant, I would willingly have extended them indefinitely. But, alas! for that at
                        once so consolatory and so detestable doctrine—the Doctrine of Perpetual
                        Flux—twenty seconds were the limit; and then the delectable equilibrium in
                        which my mind had hung was rudely disturbed. It went on working—I mean that
                        eternal see-saw, which I call my mind, did. It suffered a barbarian invasion
                        of rough doubts, tumultuous questions, inartistic moralities, which beat
                        upon it as with heavy clubs. For, after all, when I came to consider it, no
                        miraculous change had passed over Charlotte Perry, or her parents, or my
                        friend Leversedge, or myself, or our mutual relations, or our prospects, or
                        our antecedents, or our surroundings. All these stood precisely where they
                        had stood. That which we had been, both in regard of ourselves and each
                        other, that we still essentially and indubitably were. There was no squaring
                        the circle. It was all, not otherwise, but just exactly so.
                    For how was I, who had never yet given myself away, of all men to give myself
                        away thus recklessly? Bless my soul, contemplate the inevitable
                        consequences! How was I, who had always plumed myself on maintaining a nice
                        standard of taste in friendship, of all men to steal his fiancée, and play the part of a Bowdlerised
                        King David to the Uriah of poor dear Leversedge? No, no; it was really a
                        trifle tiresome, but, in truth, I had
                        neither moral courage nor was I scoundrel enough for all this.
                    And then, with a blush of shame I remember it, for it reflects small credit
                        on either my head or heart, one of those trivial incidents occurred which so
                        completely and immediately quench the fires of my not perhaps very
                        strikingly volcanic nature.
                    Miss Perry, I apprehend, had found these twenty seconds longer than I did.
                        She became restless; she grew—it was very excusable—somewhat impatient of my
                        silence. The grey deck planks, where the hem of her brown holland skirt
                        touched them, were strewn with the remnants of her bouquet of buttercups.
                        She put out her right foot, and in a nervous, and—I am compelled to
                        add—somewhat awkward, manner pushed the green stems aside and crushed the
                        shining petals. Those women who are possessed of well-shaped feet, kindly
                        permit one, in the present day, to be fully aware of that agreeable fact;
                        and it occurred to me that, considering her pretensions to fashion, the
                        opportunities afforded me of beholding the fair Charlotte's feet had been
                        distinctly limited. Now I understood why. Whether Nature or her bootmaker
                        was in fault, I cannot, of course, pretend to determine. I charitably trust
                        the former. For with Nature clearly there is no arguing; whereas any human
                        being, possessed of the powers of speech and volition, can remonstrate with
                        and, in extreme cases, change their
                        bootmaker. Miss Perry's boots or shoes—I think they were shoes—were wide,
                        easy, trodden over, their square toes turned badly heavenward. I could write
                        a pamphlet on the subject of boots—they are an awful revelation of personal
                        character. Vulgarities otherwise skilfully concealed come out in the shape
                        of a heel; sloth leaves indelible tracks across upper leathers. In moments
                        of illumination I have detected gluttony in a lace and profligacy in a
                        button. The Carissima's shoes did not betray the presence of any mortal sin,
                        let me hasten to add. But since, judging by the rest of her costume, I could
                        be in no doubt as to the sufficiency of her purse, they disclosed a vein of
                        indolence, of insufficient pride, of lack of perception; they were the shoes
                        of one whose promise is better than her performance, of one capable of
                        alarming lapses—briefly, they didn't do.
                    And in the theory of the One Woman it is imperatively necessary that the
                        whole should please in detail, as well as in its completeness. And—what a
                        relief (yes! I had reached that stage already!) to be able to pack the
                        manifold pros and cons into the compass of a syllogism—here was a detail
                        which radically displeased, therefore Miss Perry was not the One Woman.
                    It was undoubtedly soothing to have the matter thus definitely settled; but
                        it was anything but a graceful pastime to
                        convey the assurance of that settlement to my companion. Is it conceivable
                        that women really enjoy refusing their admirers? If so, they are amazingly
                        strong-minded, judging by my own—but I abstain from further comment. Suffice
                        it to say, I am conscious that a certain ardour which must have been
                        perceptible in my attitude and manner—though I am not endowed with a
                        superfluity of what is technically known as “facial expression”—flickered
                        and died. And Miss Perry—I was unspeakably ashamed, yet how, oh! how I
                        blessed her—must have been aware of that waning of a fine flame.
                    “Please give me my parasol, Mr. Hammond,” she said, suddenly, hastily. “The
                        sun is very hot.”
                    She sat down, drooped down, upon the camp stool again. I was horribly afraid
                        she was crying, as I handed her her umbrella—but I am not sure. I avoided
                        looking at her. I really had not the face to do so, for I knew I must appear
                        utterly despicable to her. I appeared so to myself. In spirit I poured forth
                        volumes of scathing invectives against myself, vials of contemptuous wrath
                        upon my own devoted head. I found it in my heart to wish the lake-boat might
                        incontinently strike upon a rock and founder, and that I might magnanimously
                        sacrifice my life—I am a singularly poor swimmer—in saving that of Miss
                        Perry. This was a cheap wish, since I was
                        aware the Lake of Geneva is deep beyond all possibility of shipwreck from
                        the above cause.
                    During these twenty seconds—and more, for the silence lasted—I certainly paid
                        a heavy price for those other twenty seconds of delightful mental
                        equilibrium. To speak was of necessity to apologise; and to apologise was
                        little short of an insult. I might have gone away; but to go away seemed to
                        me a course of action at once uncourteous and inconclusive. So, in rich
                        discomfort, I waited. The bell had rung, we were steaming westward once
                        more, while Montreux and its poplars receded in the distance.
                    “The civil marriage will take place on Thursday, at Geneva,” Charlotte Perry
                        said, at last. “Constantine has gone there to-day to see the Consul and make
                        all necessary arrangements. He has been resident in the district for a
                        sufficient length of time, there will be no difficulty or—or delay. The
                        religious ceremony will take place here on Friday.”
                    The girl looked up. Our eyes met.
                    “You will be present?” she added softly.
                    “Unfortunately I cannot be,” I replied. “I leave by the mail to-night. I
                        shall be in Paris, on my way to England.”
                    “No, no!” Miss Perry cried.
                    She rose to her feet and faced me imperiously. Her tearful mood had wholly vanished. She became
                        that which she had been the night before, almost alarming, almost
                        tremendous, notwithstanding her youth and remarkable good looks.
                    “You shall not escape so easily,” she said. “I have borne much from you, but
                        I refuse to bear that. You shall not slip away comfortably and amuse
                        yourself—perhaps with some other friend—friend?”—her voice took a most
                        disconcerting inflection of sarcasm—“elsewhere, while you leave me to lift
                        the great burden which you—yes, you—have helped to force upon me, unaided
                        and alone. I have a claim on you—we need not discuss the exact nature of it,
                        since you, I think, hardly dare deny its existence—and I require you to meet
                        that claim to the full. This is not revenge, this is justice—bare justice.
                        You shall be witness of this business to the very end. You shall see what I
                        do, hear what I say—I will leave you no loophole for disbelief, for doubt.
                        You shall recognise my worth—you shall admire my conduct—I will compel you
                        to admire it.”
                    Suddenly Charlotte Perry's eyes filled and her mouth gathered into that
                        really delicious suggestion of a kiss. I was carried away in spite of
                        myself.
                    “I admire you already,” I exclaimed. “You are extraordinary, you are
                        enchanting.”
                    Again, for a moment, the girl's appearance grew absolutely dazzling.
                    
                    “Ah!” she cried, “I have wrung that out of you at last—no, pray say no more.
                        Do not spoil your admission either by exaggeration or by explanation. Leave
                        it as it stands. Submit to be spontaneous for once!”—
                    Her tone changed, became pensive, modest, full of hesitation.
                    “You will remain, Mr. Hammond, and take part in the—the sad—for some of us it
                        must be sad—ceremony of Friday. Constantine will ask you to be his best man,
                        and you will accept. Meanwhile you will help me—I think you will? This is
                        Tuesday, so after all the time is short—you will help me to prevent my poor
                        dear parents arriving at any premature knowledge of the truth. They must
                        think that I—am happy—that—that I am glad. And I fear they are growing
                        suspicious. To-day Mamma—but I will not trouble you with all that. You must
                        help me lull their fears to rest.”
                    Miss Perry raised her hand, laid it upon her eyes.
                    “I am very tired,” she said. “We have talked enough.”
                    She turned her back upon me, so disposing her yellow and black parasol that
                        it offered an insuperable barrier to further conversation.
                    And I strolled away to the stern of the boat, there lighting upon Perry
                            père and the Deputy Surgeon-General in full session, discussing the
                        enormities of the Opium Traffic and the still greater ones of our venerable,
                        late Radical premier. While listening to their artless, though wordy
                        conversation, I bowed low before the genius of Charlotte Perry. I could not
                        fathom her, she was beyond me; consequently—for masculine vanity recoils
                        instinctively from the feminine creature it has not the wit to fathom—she
                        was not, and never could be for me, the One Woman. Yet she was, I owned it,
                        a woman of ten thousand, for she could play a losing game, she could show
                        herself great in the hour of defeat.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IV
                    IT is really rather annoying to find how, having once, though for
                        the most perfectly legitimate object, started a disturbing line of thought,
                        that line of thought refuses to quit you, finds perpetual occasion for
                        reproducing itself; hunts you, in short, as though it had started you
                        instead of your starting it. For instance, I had been very thoroughly into
                        the question of the One Man and the One Woman on the lake-boat that
                        afternoon. It would have appeared that, having so satisfactorily closed the
                        question, I ought also to have disposed of it, and have been—for a time, at
                        all events—delivered from its hauntings. But it was not so, it was not so. I
                        might have closed the question, but very certainly I had failed to dispose
                        of it. I had relieved my feelings in a sonnet to an imaginary Uniquely Fair
                        One, in the small hours of the night. Yet, notwithstanding this drastic
                        remedy—the metrical difficulties of sonnet-construction I find extremely
                        reducing to an enkindled imagination, no wonder this particular form of
                        poetic outcry has been dear to the
                        distracted lover of all ages—I discovered next morning that, in truth, the
                        question still retained the very strongest disposition to dispose, if not of
                        me, still of my time and thought.
                    I loitered on the verandah after breakfast. The morning was positively
                        divine, the air having just that hint of an edge to it which agreeably
                        convinced you, notwithstanding the heat haze dancing over the brilliant
                        landscape, that glaciers and snow-fields were after all within easy reach.
                        And that edge to the air, far from soothing a slightly heated fancy, is
                        liable to produce des éblouissements and
                        provoke a feverish restlessness. Across the startlingly green lawn, just
                        below, the lithe young Russian lady of the scarlet silk blouse and black
                        pigtail wandered bare-headed. She was innocently employed in picking ox-eyed
                        daisies and clover heads from among the grass; and as she plucked them she
                        indulged in snatches of song—sad with the sorrow of long northern winters,
                        as it seemed to me, and the endless monotony of the Steppe.
                    I do not attempt to trace out the association of ideas. It may have been a
                        revolt against the melancholy of the folk-song; it may have been an effect
                        of colour—vivid scarlet against vivid green, the strong note of black—heaven
                        forgive me if I begin to talk like an art critic!—in skirt and hair,
                        affecting my brain as a dram might; it may have been a certain fierceness in the action of the
                        fine-made, angular figure, stooping and pulling at the flowers—I can't
                        pretend to say. Suffice it that my soul was invaded by a crazy longing to
                        live, to give myself away, to be dangerous. I went back upon the position of
                        yesterday; and it was borne in upon me—it has often been so before—that I am
                        but a paltry creature, the decadent product of a decadent age. I know so
                        well what to avoid, I know so very ill what to do. I fell to envying
                        Leversedge his diabolic dog; Charlotte Perry the courage of her
                        perversions—that perhaps is the best way of stating it; even Perry père his enthusiasm for the Primrose League and
                        rich enjoyment of the enunciation of platitudes; even Percy Gerrard his
                        inherent grossness. Oh! to be positive for once, instead of tentative
                        merely, or negative! When candid persons tell me so, I wish, of course, to
                        beat them; but, in the privacy of that evil quarter of an hour, I accused
                        myself of being thin; and Myself answered that in truth I was, morally
                        emotionally, and in respect of all action, thin, very lamentably thin
                        indeed.
                    And just when I was touching the lowest deep of this unpleasant, but, no
                        doubt, salutary depth of self-abasement, when I was becoming literally
                        flattened out by the heavy weight of my own inadequacies, enter unto me Mrs.
                        Perry. She emerged from the glass doors of
                        the salon rotund and beaming.
                    “Dear me now, Mr. Hammond,” she exclaimed, “this is what I really do call a
                        piece of luck. I have been so wishing all the morning I had some lady-friend
                        to talk it all over with; and you see I have nothing but acquaintances here,
                        and I never can get over the feeling it isn't very suitable to be intimate
                        with the people you just meet travelling. You see, you don't really know
                        anything about them, nor how they live, and how many servants they keep, and
                        how they behave at home. It's so easy for anybody to look respectable on the
                        Continent. And you're so afraid, if you take to them, it may make
                        awkwardnesses afterwards,aren't you?”
                    All of which certainly did not come very much under the head of adventurous
                        and vigorous living! Failing other female acquaintances, of well-accredited
                        position, good Mrs. Perry took me. I was relegated to the modest position of
                        the safe she-gossip, to that of the maiden aunt. For a moment the Eternal
                        Masculine in me—for the Eternal Masculine does exist just as actually as the
                        Eternal Feminine, though it happens at the present time not to have so
                        fashionable a notoriety as the latter—arose in revolt. But in my present
                        condition of self-abasement, it rebelled only for a moment. I had fallen
                        very low in my own estimation. I was almost willing to regard myself as nothing better than an example of
                        infructuous and hoary spinsterhood.
                    “You have always taken such a kind interest in our dear young people,” she
                        continued, “that I know you will be pleased to hear everything is so
                        comfortably settled.”
                    She confronted me bridling, her worthy moon-face suffused with smiles. But,
                        unfortunately, the searching morning light did not suit my present companion
                        as well as the scarlet-bloused figure that had been my late inspiration, and
                        torment.
                    Mrs. Perry's matutinal appearance invariably suggested the thought that she
                        was wearing out her last year's Sunday gown. The present example of that
                        economical habit was green; enriched by steel and bugle ornaments, notably
                        in the region of the waist, where they took the form of strings of pendants
                        bearing an affinity to Papuan full dress. Her grey hair, smoothly banded on
                        the brow, was greenish in hue from the too lavish application of some
                        adhesive unguent. It was, moreover, surmounted by a lace and ribbon cap, in
                        form and colour curiously resembling a poached egg. What remained to her of
                        her eyebrow, raised to a permanently surprised height, pushed her forehead
                        up into innumerable horizontal lines. I found it impossible to dislike Mrs.
                        Perry, she was too perfectly simple and genuine a being. Yet to me, just
                        now, she proved confusing, for the tone of her profoundly insular voice, her comfortable and somewhat
                        uncontrolled figure, even the last few words she had spoken, recalled
                        irresistibly to my mind that mysterious functionary, the monthly nurse,
                        whom, to my terror, I meet at the recurrent christening festivals which
                        enliven the house of my excellent little married sister. Unable to divest my
                        mind of this association of ideas, I answered Mrs. Perry slightly at
                        random.
                    “I am delighted to hear it. I am to understand you, then, that they are both
                        doing very well?”
                    “Oh, very well,” Mrs. Perry replied with unction. “Indeed, Mr. Hammond,
                        between ourselves, I think Charlotte's a very fortunate girl, for
                        Constantine Leversedge has really being doing better than could have been
                        expected.”
                    The phrase was a little astonishing; but I retained my presence of mind.
                    “Good news upon good news!” I exclaimed. “This is capital.”
                    “So it is; and I am sure I feel very thankful, and so does Mr. Perry.”
                    Her eyebrows aspired still higher.
                    “For, of course, we've had our misgivings at times, Mr. Hammond. You see, we
                        lost our dear little boy as an infant. So she's our only child.”
                    The tenderness of the maternal passion found quite moving expression in Mrs.
                        Perry's homely countenance.
                    
                    “And being so remarkable and gifted as she is, we have sometimes wondered
                        whether we ought to let things go on. Often and often, since we've been
                        here, Mr. Perry's woke me in the night to talk about it—specially since Mrs.
                        Mertyns came, and we couldn't help seeing what an interest Mr. Gerrard took
                        in Lottie. Mr. Perry's a dreadfully poor sleeper when he has anything on his
                        mind. I am sure if I've asked him once, I've asked him a dozen times,—‘My
                        dear, what does make you so restless?’ And he always answers,—‘Charlotte's
                        marriage, Mamma, Charlotte's marriage. It's not too late yet to interfere.
                        She must not be permitted to throw herself away.’”
                    “A most proper sentiment on the part of your husband,” I said.
                    “I am so pleased to know you think that, for sometimes I have been afraid Mr.
                        Perry was inclined to place his hopes too high, and that it wouldn't bring a
                        blessing. You see, there's a great deal said about not taking too much
                        thought in the Bible, and—I daresay it is because I don't understand very
                        quickly—these new translations do explain a great many of those difficulties
                        in the Gospels, they tell me—but sometimes I was frightened lest we should
                        be asking too much for Lottie.”
                    Here Mrs. Perry placed herself in a chair. Hers was not the style of figure
                        which can be described as gracefully
                        permitting its possessor to sit down. I cannot pretend that Mrs. Perry was
                        classic in her attitudes. She invariably sat up. Her smiles had waned rather
                        beneath the disturbing influences of biblical criticism—now they shone forth
                        again.
                    “Dear me!” she exclaimed, “how pleasant it is to have a little chat! Though I
                        don't know that I ought to be so confidential with you, Mr. Hammond. Only,
                        as I say, you've always taken such a warm interest in our young people that
                        I can't help feeling as if you were quite one of ourselves now. And then I
                        always do think you can say things to a bachelor like you, you couldn't say
                        to another gentleman. And you're older, you see,” she added, heaping Pelion
                        on Ossa in the matter of compliment. “I'm sure I don't know how I should
                        have felt about leaving Charlotte alone the other night—particularly after
                        what they told me afterwards—if I had not known you were there, Mr.
                        Hammond.”
                    Mrs. Perry beamed upon me while thus stabbing me. I seem to remember as a
                        small boy discerning just such an air of complete and candid satisfaction
                        upon the face of the hall clock, in our house at Brighton, when about to
                        strike the dinner hour. I fear I was a greedy child, and may therefore have
                        transferred the sensation of satisfaction resident in my own breast to the
                        face of the clock. I am sadder and wiser now. When satisfactions come I don't transfer them. They are too rare; I
                        keep them for myself. Therefore I was very sure it was no reflected glory
                        which now illuminated Mrs. Perry's countenance. And, repressing a recurring
                        revolt of the Eternal Masculine in favour of the gratification of
                        curiosity,—for a change had very evidently come over the spirit of the
                        Perry-Leversedge dream since yesterday afternoon,—I sat down beside Mrs.
                        Perry and tried by gentle arts to induce her to reveal more clearly the
                        cause of jubilation.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER V
                    “WELL, you see,” said she, “what Mr. Perry felt was that Charlotte's
                        marriage did not explain itself. I should have thought if the young people
                        loved each other that was explanation enough. I am sure when Mr. Perry and I
                        were engaged, our friends took for granted that was explanation enough, and
                        so did dear father and mother too. But things move on so fast nowadays, Mr.
                        Hammond, I'm sure I never quite know where I am—”
                    Mrs. Perry sighed.
                    “You are not alone. The pace is hot, and the Time-Spirit leaves many of us
                        somewhat breathless,” I remarked.
                    My companion probably knew as much about the Zeitgeist as about the theory of
                        Palingenesis; but Mrs. Perry had a gracious habit of taking the will for the
                        deed. She comprehended that my intention was consolation, she was
                        therefore—in a measure, at all events—consoled.
                    “Yes, to be sure,” she replied; “and Mr. Perry has kept on saying to me, ‘We owe it to
                        ourselves, Susan, and we owe it to Charlotte's very charming and cultivated
                        circle of acquaintance, to show a really solid reason, to show sufficient
                        cause—’”
                    (Ah! shade of M. de Voltaire!)
                    “For Mr. Perry always pointed out—though I never could quite understand why
                        being clever should make so much difference—that in the case of such a
                        talented girl as Charlotte, her friends wouldn't recognise affection as very
                        much of a reason. It seems a pity, doesn't it?”
                    “So it does. Ten thousand pities,” I rejoined very cordially.
                    The good woman beamed again.
                    “Dear me, with all your nice feelings—if it isn't too intimate to mention
                        it—it does seem a loss you ain't married, Mr. Hammond. There must be plenty
                        of young ladies who would be so very willing, you know—indeed, I've more
                        than once thought—if it hadn't been decided long ago—Mr. Perry and I—for
                        there's no one I've seen for a long while I've taken so to—but then it is
                        all decided, you see—and—”
                    I laid my hand on the arm of my companion's chair. I regarded her, as I
                        believe, with an air of delicately mingled gratitude and restraint, for this
                        was the very last road I wished to travel down with Mrs. Perry.
                    
                    “It is all decided,” I repeated. “And so, as to these settlements?”
                    “Ah yes,—I'm sure I shall always remember you as a very kind friend after
                        to-day, Mr. Hammond. Well, when he'd seen the will, Mr. Perry said to me
                        directly—and I was rather nervous Constantine overheard, but then he's very
                        sensible, I don't think he's at all sensitive like some young men might
                        be,—he said to me, ‘It all lies here, Mamma, it all lies here! Everyone will
                        admit this really fine income explains Charlotte's choice.’”
                    “Unquestionably wealth explains much to the mind of the modern world,” I
                        remarked.
                    “I am very pleased you agree with Mr. Perry,” she said, with great
                        cheerfulness. “I'll tell him you think Charlotte's friends will be
                        satisfied; and I can't help hoping that may make him less excited than he
                        has been lately. He is so very tenacious about her friends being
                        satisfied.”
                    After all, what is truth that we should be so desperately anxious to speak
                        it? Absolute truth became unattainable, in all probability, many thousand
                        centuries ago. Very distantly approximate truth is the utmost we can hope to
                        arrive at in our present state of lamentable over-development, when the mist
                        of unnumbered opinions has obscured every conceivable question of human
                        conduct and of human relation. Is not the mere attempt to speak it, perhaps, a refined form of
                        spiritual pride and self-seeking? Better, I think, rub a little emollient
                        ointment of passing peace upon the soul of the brother or sister who happens
                        to be nearest you, by endeavouring to take whatever view of things—not
                        actually criminal—you perceive will yield them solace, however fleeting. So
                        I begged Mrs. Perry to regard me as the mouthpiece of the social gods; and
                        bade her rest assured those high and holy divinities would unanimously
                        applaud the wisdom of her daughter's choice, if the fortune Leversedge
                        possessed, and the settlements he made, were really handsome.
                    “And they really are handsome?” I inquired.
                    “They seem so to me,” she answered. “But then, Mr. Perry and I hadn't much to
                        begin on at first, Mr. Hammond. We were in a very small way. He used to
                        repeat beautiful lines about love in a cottage, which afforded the greatest
                        pleasure to dear mother and father. I'm sure I can hear her kiss me now,
                        upon my wedding-morning, just when she had done lacing my dress—it was very
                        becoming to the figure, but a very inconvenient fashion, those day-dresses
                        lacing up behind—and say to me,—‘Thank God, Susie, you will have that in
                        your husband which is better than riches, for Joseph has a truly good
                        heart.’”
                    She paused, blushed a little, and her bosom
                        heaved ominously. Ah, well, happy is the woman who has had her romance, even
                        if it take the rat-like form of a Joseph Perry! I respectfully averted my
                        eyes until such time as my companion should have recovered from too acute
                        memories of those early enchantments, and they lighted upon the wearer of
                        the scarlet blouse, reclining on the grass at the foot of a grey-green
                        stemmed tulip tree. One of the debilitated young Russians stood before her
                        haranguing her with impassioned gestures. Evidently she disagreed with him;
                        and disagreement, so far, took the form of a silence quite hugely provoking.
                        I watched them, I turned back to Mrs. Perry. That man, at least, touched
                        something very like absolute truth who declared “it takes all sorts to make
                        a world.”
                    “But of course I was very different to Charlotte,” my innocent companion
                        continued. “I had not her requirements. I didn't mind makeshifts—”
                    She laughed a little apologetically.
                    “Between ourselves, I don't mind them much now. They make me feel easy. But
                        they don't make Charlotte easy; they seem to mortify her, and she points
                        things out to me—her standard of taste is very high. And I should be the
                        last person to undervalue that, still sometimes I do find it a little
                        tiring. You see, you never do quite get over the way you were brought up,
                        Mr. Hammond. And I do seem to have so many
                        things to remember, people never troubled about when I was young, that when
                        I have got hold of one I am pretty sure to forget some other; and, of
                        course, I know that must be mortifying to Charlotte and her father.”
                    “Alas! we must all pay the penalties of progress, my dear lady,” I said, I
                        trust not too abominably sententiously.
                    “I suppose we must”—Mrs. Perry sighed. “Still, it's a very troubling thing to
                        feel what you do is a subject of mortification to others. Sometimes it makes
                        me dreadfully low-spirited. I do try to feel it's just the cross that is
                        laid upon me, Mr. Hammond; and to count the many undeserved blessings I have
                        to set against it.”
                    Simplicity is disarming.
                    “I am sure you do,” I replied in tones of the sincerest conviction. “And
                        among the blessings we are evidently to count these same settlements. Tell
                        me about them, if it is not indiscreet to do so. I am profoundly curious in
                        the matter.”
                    “Well, yes, I'm sure you are; and I don't think it is indiscreet with you—at
                        least, if it is, I believe I can trust you not to mention it, because I
                        think you are one of those who really do like to give pleasure, and
                        naturally you see it's a great pleasure to me to have a little chat over it
                        all. And, you know, I wouldn't say a single word for anything, but I had
                        been told something, and, the consequence
                        was, dear Charlotte and I did fall out a little yesterday. Mr. Perry took
                        her away on the lake afterwards. I daresay he acted all for the best, but I
                        felt rather hurt, you know. I daresay I had been over anxious. But she keeps
                        it up—Charlotte does keep things up a little sometimes. She's been distant
                        with me this morning even, so that I haven't been able to have a nice
                        comfortable gossip with her over it all as it would seem suitable I should
                        have.”
                    “All that will come later, dear Mrs. Perry,” I asserted. “Just now your
                        daughter is of necessity slightly self-absorbed, slightly distraite. Surely you can recall a kindred
                        state of mind under kindred circumstances—on the eve of your own
                        marriage?”
                    “I'm sure I don't know. I am afraid I cried a great deal at leaving
                        mother—though I wouldn't have given up Joseph—Mr. Perry, I mean—on any
                        account. Charlotte doesn't ever cry—she never has been given to crying since
                        she was a child, you know. And I suppose I oughtn't to want her to. But then
                        Charlotte and I are very different. My tears always came easily.”
                    “Self-control is the order of the day,” I rejoined. “And as to these
                        settlements, if you will pardon my importunity?”
                    “I am afraid I do wander,” Mrs. Perry said
                        humbly. “They often tell me so. But, you see, I have had so much on my mind,
                        and Mr. Perry has been very excitable,—really at times—let me see, he gives
                        her—I mean Constantine does—a thousand a year for her separate use; that
                        does seem to me very handsome. I'm sure I don't know what she can find to
                        spend it on. I said to her she ought to put away more than half against a
                        rainy day. But Constantine laughed—he has a very free, pleasant laugh has
                        Constantine. But I don't feel quite easy about him. He looks very pulled and
                        worn to me. I shouldn't like to think he'd anything on his mind, Mr.
                        Hammond; but in those foreign places young men do lead very wild lives
                        sometimes, I'm afraid.”
                    “Take my word for it, Leversedge is a jewel of gold, Mrs. Perry,” I asserted
                        warmly.
                    “Well, I am sure I have often wished to ask you, only it didn't seem a proper
                        thing to do. But just now it popped out before I could help it. And, of
                        course, one does hear very sad stories now and then. But I suppose it's just
                        his health then, the change, coming away from those very hot climates and
                        everything. I think he wants care, and I am sure I should be very pleased to
                        give it him. I often wish to make him nice little things to take, and look
                        after his linen. If there's anything that goes to my heart it's that a young
                        man should have to sew on his own tapes and buttons. But I am always afraid he might resent anything
                        like that as a liberty. Of course, there's so much a person of my age can do
                        for a gentleman that wouldn't be suitable from a younger person. Perhaps
                        when Charlotte's married I may seem to get nearer to him.”
                    Mrs. Perry clasped and unclasped her hands nervously, upon that which had
                        been her waist.
                    “It was a dreadful thing to lose our baby, Mr. Hammond,” she said. “I always
                        wished for a son, and though I did pray to be kept from being rebellious, I
                        am afraid I have been envious of other women when I saw them with nice
                        little boys of their own. His dying seemed to leave me with a sort of
                        emptiness; and I have felt lately as if Constantine—or any husband Charlotte
                        had, because, of course, she might have married otherwise—might come to fill
                        it, if I could only get near him, you know.”
                    The lady of the scarlet silk blouse had arisen from her couch upon the grass.
                        She came slowly from under the dancing shade of the tulip-tree, and, passing
                        with her companion along the sunny path, paused at the foot of the flight of
                        steps below us. On either hand were wide beds of dwarf roses—pink, yellow,
                        and red. Behind lay the long, downward slope of the great lawn to the alley
                        by the shore—in which sauntered some ladies of our company, clothed in light
                        summer dresses— overshadowed by poplars,
                        chestnuts, and willows, between whose stems glittered the intense blue of
                        the lake. The young woman had taken up her parable now, and the purrings and
                        spittings of her curiously agitating Russian speech were as arresting to the
                        attention as her vigorous angular gestures. My thoughts, I am ashamed to
                        say, wandered. I did not hear the beginning of good Mrs. Perry's next
                        remarks.
                    “—in case of his death—and I know it's wicked, Mr. Hammond, but I do so
                        dislike death;—‘I leave to my wife Charlotte, absolutely, all I die
                        possessed of,’ it said,—I mean, the will said.”
                    “Yes! that is liberal,” I exclaimed, half involuntarily. Poor Leversedge,
                        there were no reservations, no half measures in his dealing, anyhow. Such as
                        his life was, he lived it to the full.
                    “So it is,” Mrs. Perry agreed; “I really don't see how it could be more so.
                        And there seems to be a great deal to leave in stocks and shares, and
                        railways and land and mines, and so on. I didn't attempt to tot it up, for I
                        felt a little overcome, you know; but Mr. Perry ran through it all in no
                        time—Joseph always has been very noted for rapid calculation—and, of course,
                        I know his face so well, after all these years, I could tell in an instant.
                        Too, he did say to me, ‘princely, positively princely,’ under his breath, so
                        I knew it must be something quite above the average, and that we all had reason to be very thankful.
                        Still, I do wish nothing had been said about death, Mr. Hammond.”
                    I pointed out at some length, and with, I trust, the utmost mildness, that
                        the question of death has a frequent habit of entering into the question of
                        a will.
                    “I suppose it has,” Mrs. Perry said. “All the same, it does seem a very
                        shocking thing for a young man like Constantine to be occupied about just
                        when he's going to be married. Of course, it was very foolish, but it gave
                        me a dreadful turn. It seemed somehow to bring back these last days when we
                        lost our dear little boy; I am sure I don't know why, for Constantine is a
                        grown man, and he was an infant. But I seemed to feel as if poor Charlotte
                        was a widow before she was a wife, for the minute, if it isn't too familiar
                        to say so, and that's enough to give anybody a turn, Mr Hammond, don't you
                        think so?”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI
                    DECIDEDLY the middle class should avoid high spirits. As a condition
                        of mind and body, high spirits are questionably becoming, even in the young
                        and noble; while in persons of mature age and unexalted, though maybe
                        respectable, station, they are liable to degenerate into that which is
                        really very terrible indeed.
                    All this was borne in upon me forcibly during the ensuing five minutes.
                    “Mamma!—where is Mrs. Perry? Mamma!”
                    And, as so frequently, in urgent pursuit of a missing member of his family,
                        Perry père chased along the terrace below.
                        Regardless of the evident fervour of their conversation, I beheld him draw
                        up before the two Russians, raise the grey felt hat with its streaming
                        pugaree, and inquire—Mr. Perry invariably appeared to entertain the idea
                        that all foreigners are afflicted with deafness, so he bawled the said
                        inquiry, smiling the while with a sort of voracious intensity—
                    “Pardon, mademoiselle, pray excuse
                            me—mais avez
                            vous vu Madame Perry? Savez vous où elle est, où est, enfin, ma
                            femme?”
                    The young lady looked round in very evident surprise. Then her eyes lighted
                        on me. And their expression was not without malice, as she extended her hand
                        in the direction of the verandah with a sweeping gesture, which had the
                        effect of enclosing Mrs. Perry and myself, of framing us for ever side by
                        side.
                    “Mais la voilà, monsieur,” she said.
                            “La voilà avèc monsieur son ámi.”
                    “Ah! ha! I see," cried Mr. Perry gaily. “Mille fois
                            merci, mademoiselle.”
                    And, dragging on a pair of purplish-brown kid gloves, he hurried up the
                        steps.
                    “I see,” he cried, shaking his two fingers archly, “I see. A sly flirtation
                        with mamma. Naughty, very naughty,— 
                            Billing and cooing together they sat,
                            Quite unaware they were watched by the cat.”
                        
                    I am not naturally of a bloodthirsty disposition, but there are hours when
                        the mildest men become as furies. I could have massacred Perry père just then. An application of the wheel,
                        the rack, the boot, or the thumb-screw would have given me rapture. I could
                        have roasted him at a slow fire without a movement of compassion. All the
                        more so, that I perceived her knowledge of the English language was quite sufficient to give the
                        lady of the red silk blouse a strong sense of the inglorious comedy of my
                        position. To kill is well. To be offended is often undignified, and always
                        silly. It is not in my power to kill, so I smiled benignly upon Mr. Perry,
                        and did my possible to meet him in a Christian spirit.
                    “Yes,” I said, “Mrs. Perry has been more than kind, and we have had a, to me,
                        delightful little talk. I congratulate you. I have been hearing capital
                        news.”
                    “Ah! ha! I understand,” he replied. “She could not keep it to herself— 
                            The brimming pitcher sure will overflow,
                            And spill the ruby liquor on the thirsty soil below.
                         Well, well, I own there are excuses for a tendency to garrulity on the
                        part of some of us this morning! A difficult chapter in our family annals is
                        happily concluded; a period of anxiety is past; a shadow is, as one may say,
                        lifted from our parental hearts. But I trust, my love, you have not
                        exaggerated?” he added, in sterner and more judicial accents. “I would not
                        have a false impression created. We must not make too much of it, Mr.
                        Hammond.”
                    “Indeed, there appears to be a most agreeably heavy amount to make much of,”
                        I remarked.
                    “An elegant competence,” Mr. Perry said
                        airily,—“an elegant competence. Our daughter will be in a position to
                        gratify her literary and artistic tastes, to entertain her circle of friends
                        in becoming style, and take that place in London society for which, as I at
                        once proudly and gratefully asseverate, her talents so eminently fit her.
                        This is the reward of my fostering care. I recognise it. Yes, yes, I own
                        to-day you see in me a happy father, and a very nice thing that is to see,
                        I'm sure. But now to business—my love, I am on my way to the boat. I
                        mentioned to Charlotte, and she agreed with me, that after the flattering
                        sympathy—really most flattering to all of us as a family—which she has
                        exhibited, it was only due to Mrs. Mertyns that she should be early
                        acquainted with the rosy hue which now, as I may say, flushes our daughter's
                        future. There have been moments,” said Mr. Perry darkly, drawing himself up
                        and addressing me,—“as our charming friend Mrs. Mertyns well knows—only
                        yesterday—but let that pass. I will not dwell on fears once entertained.
                        Hope has now taken their place.—Yes, Mr. Hammond, our dear children will
                        enjoy a very pretty little fortune— 
                            Gold, much red gold, shall grace these nuptials
                            And cement the basis of domestic joys.”
                        
                    “Well, I am very willing Mrs. Mertyns should know,” Mrs. Perry responded. “I
                        thought of writing home myself to my cousins, and dear Aunt Trumbull at Brixton. They've always been very
                        true to me, and—”
                    “Quite so, quite so, my dear—and therefore Charlotte has penned a brief note,
                        and has commissioned me to be the bearer of it. I have it here”—he tapped
                        the breast-pocket of his coat. “Yes, Mr. Hammond, without seeking to obtrude
                        myself, I may just hint that practical experience has given me a not
                        contemptible knowledge of such matters, and I have much pleasure in
                        testifying to the excellent business capacity of our future son-in-law.
                        Leversedge has done well, remarkably well, considering his age and
                        opportunities. I could wish he had displayed less reticence regarding the
                        amount of his income. Clear information under that head would have spared us
                        many anxious hours,—wouldn't it, Mamma?”
                    “Leversedge is admirably modest,” I said parenthetically.
                    This remark produced a really extraordinary expression of reflective wisdom
                        on the part of Mr. Perry. He meditated visibly, as visibly roused himself
                        from meditation.
                    “Most true,” he replied. “I yield to no one in my appreciation of our dear
                        boy Constantine—Mamma will bear me out in that. But, as one of our greatest
                        poets observes,— 
                            Let not your modesty outrun discretion
                            Lest, falling from fair favour to contempt,
                            You mask a greater by a lesser good.
                         And there has been a touch of
                        secretiveness, a hint, perhaps,—though far be it from me to be harsh,—of
                        that pride which apes humility in Constantine's attitude.”
                    “To be sure, I never thought of him as proud now,” interposed Mrs. Perry.
                    “Ah! ah! my love, public life, the rub of the world—eh, Mr. Hammond?—teaches
                        us men to read men—yes, very shrewdly indeed, to read them.”
                    “It doesn't prevent most of you making mistakes over women, though,
                        sometimes,” the good creature said quite sharply. Then she repented, and
                        looked very mildly at her husband.—“So you're going up by the boat then,
                        Joseph,” she added.
                    The fashion of a rat had become very apparent in Mr. Perry, but he controlled
                        himself. Perhaps he meant to speak to Mrs. Perry quietly alone afterwards.
                        This is one of the advantages of matrimony; let us be fair to that
                        much-canvassed institution;—it gives excellent opportunities for the
                        private, unwitnessed adjustment of small differences.
                    “Yes, yes,” he cried,— 
                            “With thee, my bark, I swiftly speed
                            Across the foaming brine—
                         call on Mrs. Mertyns; communicate the information, which I am convinced
                        she will cordially welcome, and return
                        here in time for the midday meal, unless she should ask me to remain. I do
                        not think I could very well refuse, you know. I think we owe it to Mrs.
                        Mertyns to accept any invitation of hers. You will not therefore feel
                        anxious, my love, should my return be delayed. Make my apologies to our end
                        of the table.”
                    Here Mr. Perry struggled violently, almost showily, for all his playfulness
                        had returned, with the fingers of his kid gloves.
                    “Oblige me by holding my umbrella, Mamma, while I reduce these offenders to
                        order. New? Yes, Mr. Hammond; and they are a little wayward, a little, as I
                        may say, recalcitrant. Patience, always patience—even the trivialities of
                        existence call that godlike virtue into exercise at times.—Which reminds me
                        of what I was saying to Constantine just now, and I am convinced you will
                        endorse it. A fortune must not only be made, it must be guarded, be
                        increased. Is there, indeed, any reason why it should not be doubled? A
                        wife, as I pointed out to him (for it is only prudent to reckon with these
                        little possible accidents beforehand), not infrequently implies a family. It
                        is therefore his duty not to relax his efforts. Children are costly
                        commodities in these days, extremely costly. Let him therefore look forward,
                        and continue to apply himself to business. As I told him, neither Mrs. Perry
                        nor myself would ever stand in his way, if
                        the state of his affairs pointed to the desirability of his taking a three
                        or six months' trip to the southern confines of the Dark Continent. During
                        his absence, his home should be ours. With perfect security he could leave
                        his Charlotte under the protection of her natural guardians. Mamma and I
                        would join her at her house in town at any moment. Ah, and that reminds me,
                        we must consult you upon a knotty point,—a knotty point, Mr. Hammond! In
                        favour of which locality is your vote given? Where shall they reside? Mamma
                        inclines to the north side of the park; eh, my love? But I maintain she is
                        in error. A young ménage should be
                            en evidence. So give me Mayfair or
                        Belgravia,” exclaimed Mr. Perry daringly, “for preference, Belgravia.”
                    “Well, I always shall say people are much more neighbourly in the suburbs or
                        out Bayswater way than down in the squares,” Mrs. Perry asserted, with a
                        certain mild obstinacy.
                    “Neighbourly!” cried her husband, as he might have cried ‘murder.’ “My dear,
                        there are social distinctions which I fear your mind will never—here, give
                        me, if you please, my umbrella.”
                    The chunking sound of the engines of the approaching lake-boat claimed the
                        speaker's attention and restored his good humour.
                    “Farewell,” he added—“I must away. Remember, I may be detained. I may be
                        unable to join you at déjeûner. Your kindest regards, I am sure, to
                        our charming friends, Mr. Hammond.”
                    And, with flying pugaree and waving umbrella, he fled down the steps and
                        across the sunny lawn in the direction of the panting steamer. In even the
                        best trained wives, the most thoroughly domesticated—as the advertisements
                        put it—of women, domesticity will wear a trifle thread-bare now and again.
                        Mrs. Perry adjusted her cap, around the lace and ribbons of which the wind
                        had frolicked somewhat too freely, with dignity.
                    “You see, Mr. Perry is rather excited,” she said. “I suppose everybody
                        forgets themselves sometimes under excitement, and of course he has been
                        very troubled about Charlotte's future, and now that everything's so
                        comfortably settled he feels the—”
                    She so evidently searched about for a word that I suggested “reaction.”
                    “Yes, reaction. That's just it, and thank you. And I am sure I shall always
                        be grateful to you for our pleasant chat, and for letting me be so
                        confidential.”
                    She executed a movement as of rising from her chair.
                    “Permit me,” I said, offering my hand as a pulley.
                    I experienced a sensation of dead weight, followed—Mrs. Perry being on her
                        feet—by one of the most affectionate
                        pressure. She had a motherly hand, and a motherly hand is still among the
                        dearest things of experience, by whoever possessed, even when one
                        acknowledges to the fatal age of forty.
                    “My dear lady,” I repeated, “the gratitude should be mine. I am honoured by
                        your confidence in me.”
                    She smiled, blinked, choked a little.
                    “I suppose when you're getting on in life, like I am, you always feel a
                        little lonely. And then, kindness, and somebody who'll listen, does go to
                        your heart somehow.”
                    She arranged herself, smoothed down the Papuan full dress.
                    “Well, I'll go up and write to Aunt Trumbull,” she said. “The post's at
                        twelve, and, I'm sorry to say, I never was very quick over letters.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VII
                    SO Charlottle Perry never cried,—never, from a child, had been given
                        to the weakness of weeping. Among the many enlightening pieces of
                        information I had recently received, this struck me as one of the most
                        interesting. I found myself repeating it over and over as I loitered down
                        the garden. Perplexing young person! And the copious tears of yesterday,
                        what then did they indicate? A breaking down of stoicism; the heart of the
                        woman fairly touched at last; or merely a pose more elaborate, more
                        realistically developed, than all former poses?
                    In the days of my youth and my vanity, I thought I knew a great deal about
                        human nature; I fancied myself an adept in the reading of character. But as
                        I grow older I grow less and less confident of my own astuteness. My
                        slowness in “catching on” indeed appears to me positively abysmal. The
                        comprehension—in the true sense of that word—of even the most fatuous of
                        one's fellow-mortals demands, not only a patience almost superhuman, but a
                        lifetime of observation. One thing among all the perplexities, however,was quite certain, namely,
                        that I had not got to the end of Charlotte Perry yet.
                    Meanwhile, I own, I kept a look-out for the scarlet silk blouse. Not only did
                        I need a change from the Perry atmosphere to a less depressing climate and
                        wider horizon, but I owed the owner of that brilliant garment one, to put it
                        vulgarly. “Discipline must be maintained,” as observed the immortal Sergeant
                        Bagnet. She had been malicious. She must pay for her malice—somehow—were it
                        only indirectly by acting as an antidote to the insularity of good Mrs.
                        Perry. But the offender had become invisible. I searched for her, but I
                        searched vainly. She and her dyspeptic cavalier had disappeared. Finally,
                        hearing a sound of voices from the place of gnats, I turned my footsteps
                        thither.
                    Alas! under the sharp-edged shadow of the plane-trees only two English nurses
                        and their charges were visible.—A small boy and girl,—two wildly active blue
                        and white little beings, apparently in imminent risk of immersion, jumping
                        from gunwale to gunwale of the pack of rowing-boats that were drawn up half
                        out of the water on the paved slope at the near end of the little harbour.
                        And a lusty infant of tender age, armed with a wooden spade, and suffering
                        permanent eclipse, as to its face, from the vast proportions of a flapping
                        white linen hat, who made staggering rushes in unexpected directions; indulging, meanwhile, in
                        that wordless and wholly unrelated description of vocalisation, which should
                        delight the heart of the evolutionary philologist, since it points so
                        distinctly to the conclusion that the utterances of the primæval savage are
                        heard over again in the earliest notes of the contemporary Christian
                        child.
                    It was uncommonly warm under the plane-trees. Owing to the turn of the
                        coast-line the whole of the little bay was sheltered from the breeze; so
                        that the gay-coloured flags of the rowing-boats, among which the stars and
                        stripes predominated, hung limp and flaccid from the white stern-posts. The
                        length of the stone pier lay in a blaze of sunshine. And at the extreme end
                        of it, raised high above the quay by a flight of steep steps, stood, not the
                        accentuated black and red figure of my coveted young Russian, but
                        Leversedge,—tall, gaunt, curiously unsubstantial looking, in a pale brown
                        shooting-coat and white trousers.
                    His back was towards me, his hands in his pockets, his shoulders rounded, as
                        he gazed down into the blue water ridged with slow, smooth undulations from
                        the wash of the lately passed steamer. He was absolutely still—a modern St.
                        Simeon Stylites upon his lonely pillar—victim, even as this last was,
                        allowing for the difference of outlook brought about by the lapse of fifteen
                        centuries, of the strange torments of a fixed idea.
                    
                    I walked nearly the length of the pier before hailing him (the stones, I
                        remember, struck quite hot even through the soles of my boots), and when, in
                        response to my greeting, he turned round, it was in the slow, dazed manner
                        of a man half asleep.
                    “My dear fellow,” I said, “the effect of you up there is finely statuesque,
                        and most appropriately so. I have been holding converse with Mrs. Perry—who,
                        by the same token, is as dear and kind a soul as ever stepped—and I find you
                        are very much the hero of the hour. But I have had no speech of you for two
                        days. Descend, therefore, oh great man, from your pedestal, and account for
                        yourself. Tell me how you are.”
                    Thus admonished, Leversedge stepped down to the level of the quay.
                    “She told you about it all, and they're pleased?” he said. “That's a good
                        thing, anyhow. I'm immensely glad.”
                    As he spoke, I took a steady look at Leversedge, and that which I saw, upon
                        my word, I should not be sorry to forget. His eyes were sunk in his head,
                        and circled by a bluish-black stain. His face was very thin and positively
                        grey in colour, causing his close brown beard to seem unnaturally dark and
                        bright. And this had a ghastly effect somehow, as though the man's hair
                        alone was alive, the rest of him, though he moved and spoke, already
                            dead. His appearance was so startling
                        that I could not help commenting on it.
                    “You're not well,” I said.
                    Leversedge raised his eyebrows, and smiled at me in his curiously patient
                        way.
                    “I'm sure I don't know. On the whole I imagine not,” he replied. “But really
                        I begin to forget. Was I ever well? Is anybody ever well? Isn't it all a
                        matter of degrees, after all? Some cheerful old johnny once declared the
                        beginning of living was, rightly understood, merely the beginning of dying,
                        didn't he? And as you get older the process of dissolution merely gets more
                        way on, I suppose. The pace quickens when you're nearing the post.”
                    “But, my dear friend, at your age one by no means necessarily nears the post.
                        There are ways and means. Something can and must be done to prevent it.”
                    “Make me warm, then,” said Leversedge. “I am so dismally and infernally cold.
                        I don't believe I am more cowardly than most men, but the cold frightens me.
                        I am always seeing a picture, I once came across somewhere, of men and women
                        frozen into a great sea of ice. I fancy it was an illustration of
                        Dante,—mean, spiteful sort of thing it always struck me, to stick all the
                        people who annoyed you into the wrong place like that, in a poem, for
                        themselves and everybody else to read. I
                        came down here,” he added, “to try to bake the shivers out of me. But it's
                        no good. This European sun of yours is a miserably one-horse concern. It
                        gives out about as much heat as a square foot of looking-glass.”
                    I was greatly concerned for Leversedge.—“Is it the old story?” I asked.
                    He nodded.
                    “I've been spending a happy night with my faithful dog,” he said. “Nine hours
                        of uninterrupted enjoyment.”
                    And then, as by mutual consent, we looked very hard at each other; while the
                        lusty infant under the plane-trees, filled by the sense of its own
                        well-being, upraised its voice in still louder shoutings, and the empty
                        boats bumped against one another, with soft gurglings and suckings of water,
                        as the little boy and girl skirmished about them playing some game of wild
                        adventure.
                    “No, Hammond, I am not mad. Appearances are frightfully against me; but,
                        before God, I don't believe I am mad,” Leversedge said solemnly. “What it
                        all is, and why it all is, I don't know. I have gone back through
                        everything, as far as I can remember, and my record,—it isn't perfectly
                        clean; whose is, after all, you know?—but it is not worse than most men's.
                        So I can't make out that I have done anything to bring this upon myself. I
                        suppose it's folly ever to try to go behind the fact. What is, is; and there's the beginning and end of
                        it. And, as I told you, in that dead camp I saw the Thing-too-Much. Still,
                        one would always like to know why. It occurs to one Somebody must be
                        accountable, and one would be obliged if They'd kindly explain,—that's
                        all.”
                    Leversedge's dead face smiled pathetically upon me.
                    “But They don't explain,” he added. “I don't want to be blasphemous, but it
                        occurs to one sometimes that perhaps They're not so very much to
                        blame,—perhaps They can't explain.”
                    “Ah! there you touch bottom,” I said. “You can get no lower. You have reached
                        the land of Outer Darkness, where reigns the Everlasting Despair. Come out
                        of that. It, anyhow, is absolutely no good. Put it away from you. If it had
                        been proved up to the hilt,—which, remember, it never yet has been, or, as
                        far as I can see, ever can be,—still it would be the part of the wise man to
                        deny it, to ignore it, to refuse utterly to think of it.”
                    “Since when have you turned preacher, Hammond?” Leversedge asked. Then he
                        added almost immediately,—“I beg your pardon. I am an ass. One may be in a
                        pretty bad way, but it is superfluous to be uncivil.”
                    “Perpetrate incivilities of the most aggravated character, and I will endure
                        them like a lamb, like a sucking-dove, like that unpardonably-irritating  creature, ‘patient Grizel’ herself, only,
                        don't lose heart.”
                    There was a silence. Leversedge's eyes rested on the children playing in the
                        sunshine in the gaily painted boats.
                    “That must be awfully jolly,” he said presently. “One would be glad to go
                        back. And yet one would merely have to do it all over again, which would
                        be—”
                    He shivered.
                    “I drove it away four or five times last night,” he added. “But it only went
                        round and curled itself into my back. That was the finish. I was so absurdly
                        tired,—that little bit of business with the Consul yesterday regularly
                        knocked me up—I don't know what I am coming to,—but I hadn't the energy to
                        get up and move about, so I lay still and let it lie. And it chilled me
                        clean through.”
                    Not my worst enemy has ever accused me of an intemperate passion for physical
                        exercise; but there are times when one must do violence even to one's
                        highest virtues.
                    “Come and drink,” I said, “and then come and walk. Even a salamander might
                        find some of the vineyard paths on the hillside agreeably sultry. You may
                        get warm there in time—heaven knows, I shall get so soon enough. We can but
                        try.”
                    Under the plane-trees the lusty infant, backing away from its own spadeful of pebbles, came into
                        violent collision with my companion's long legs. Involuntarily it assumed a
                        sitting position with, to itself, unexpected rapidity and force. Leversedge
                        stooped down and picked up the baby, which, by no means disconcerted by its
                        sudden elevation, continued to send forth prehistoric cries of unalloyed
                        cheerfulness.
                    “You're a nice, promising little chap,” Leversedge remarked.
                    Whereat the baby ceased its calling, contemplated him from under its flapping
                        sun-hat with owl-like solemnity, decided in his favour, and pouted out a
                        round moist mouth for a kiss. I own to a movement of accentuated
                        embarrassment in the face of such frank infantile advances. Not so
                        Leversedge. He planted a very square kiss on the pouting lips.
                    “Dear little chap, kind little chap,” he murmured.
                    The nurse advanced flurried and apologetic.
                    “Master So-and-so,” for this creature, a span long, already apparently
                        possessed both a name and rank of its own—“never minded where he was
                        going.”
                    “Oh! well, he went most uncommonly right this time, anyhow,” Leversedge
                        answered, as he gave the child carefully back into her arms.
                    He walked on at rather a breathless pace.
                    “Hammond,” he said presently, “you know
                        we're to be married to-morrow. That is, half-married—before the Consul at
                        Geneva. I'm almost ashamed to ask you; it will be a long way there and back,
                        and I am afraid you'll be awfully bored, but, look here, I should be
                        tremendously grateful to you if you'd come.”
                    “Of course,” I replied, “I will come.”
                    “That's very good of you,” he said. “I know Charlotte will be immensely
                        pleased at your coming. She told me she'd spoken to you about it. She had a
                        little talk with you yesterday.”
                    “So she did, so she had,” I answered. And, good gracious, about how many
                        surprisingly other matters had she not spoken in the course of that same
                        little talk? Amazing Charlotte Perry, who from her childhood, as her mother
                        reported, had “never cried”! In spirit I yearned over Leversedge. How, in
                        the name of fortune, would it all turn out?
                    We went for our walk. The paths between the vineyard walls were basting. I
                        have reason to believe that I lost many pounds during that walk. And
                        Leversedge talked of South Africa; of elephants, ostriches, and diamond
                        fields; of Imperial Federation; of the very nasty habits of the noble
                        savage. He was really amusing upon the latter subject. Of all practical
                        jokers the savage, upon his showing, is the most professional, the most
                        advanced. During the whole time he mentioned (putting, as I fancied, a pretty strong force upon himself) neither his
                        approaching marriage nor his diabolic dog.
                    To luncheon, Perry père—who, it may be
                        noted in passing, had, by the exercise of some diplomacy, secured to himself
                        the seat at the head of the long table-d'hôte—did not return; and Leversedge, in obedience of
                        a gentle command on the part of the Carissima, occupied his place. The
                        spaces between the windows of the great, cool dining-room, and the inside
                        wall of it, were freely incrusted with plaques of looking-glass. From my
                        station halfway down the room—I invariably indulge myself with a separate
                        table when staying in hotels—I could see Leversedge's bright dark head and
                        beard and somewhat deathly profile reflected back and forth, apparently
                        endlessly, to right and left; on one side of him the charming face and
                        brilliant colouring of his fiancée, on the
                        other the worthy clock-moon countenance of his future mother-in-law.
                    Miss Perry talked softly to him; her manner was delicious, most engaging,
                        winning, and modest; and he listened to her, watched her, with a sort of
                        rapture. He also, I believe, drank a whole bottle of champagne; but, so far
                        as I could discover, he ate nothing, and I knew he was still cold, cold as a
                        corpse.
                
            
            
                
                PHASE FOURTH
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    “THIS is jocund,” cried Mr. Perry, when I met him in the hall next
                        morning.
                    In honour of impending events he was clothed distinctly as a citizen, in a
                        shiny black-cloth frock coat and a tall hat—which last he put on and took
                        off again with rather feverish uncertainty. This might be jocund, yet I am
                        bound to confess I found his appearance highly suggestive of that of a
                        successful undertaker. In manner he was varied, spry in the main, but
                        lapsing into reticence, self-recollection, even austerity.
                    “My ladies will be with us directly. At least, if they're not I'll just run
                        up in the lift and fetch them. The fair sex is too often a little, just a
                        little deficient in that strict observance of the virtue of punctuality, Mr.
                        Hammond, which the sterner public duties falling to our lot compel us so rigidly to practise. Well, well, we must
                        pardon them— 
                            'Tis theirs to note the passing of the hour,
                            Reclined at ease upon the low divan,
                            But by the sunshine's waxing, waning power,
                            But by the opening, closing of the flower,
                            The lute's faint echo and the faltering fan
                            As sleep invades the drooping eyelids' delicate
                                span,”
                         recited Mr. Perry, suddenly becoming quite voluptuous and eastern.—“And
                        on an auspicious occasion such as this, we all know how it is,” he added
                        indulgently,—“a bow of ribbon here, a trinket there; just those
                        supplementary, those fancy touches, which the mirror provokes and from the
                        multiplication of which every true woman finds it so hard to tear herself
                        away. Even Mamma is vain. I am happy to say so—upon my word, I am proud to
                        say so. For, that a woman should continue to desire to please after three
                        decades of married life—though 'tis hardly fair on Mamma to let cats out of
                        bags as to the lapse of time in this way, eh?—shows a marvellous freshness
                        of sentiment, of what I may call a wholesomeness of disposition, doesn't it,
                        Mr. Hammond?”
                    “Mrs. Perry increasingly claims my respectful admiration,” I replied, with
                        perfect sincerity.
                    “Good,” he murmured, “good, good. Occasions such as that which brings us
                        together this morning—and most happy I am, I'm sure, to be brought together—inevitably carry us back in
                        thought and unseal the fount of tender memories. Yes, I am glad to record my
                        hearty conviction that I was not in error when I invited her, whom you now
                        know as Susan Perry, to become the partner of my mortal course. And it's not
                        every husband who can say as much as that at the end of thirty years, Mr.
                        Hammond. Little ups and downs,” he added archly,—“little ups and downs, as a
                        matter of course; but on the whole the ups have it.”
                    Here the arrival of the hotel omnibus at the wide-open door of the portico,
                        with much grating of the brake and the jingling of the fat horses' collar
                        bells, claimed Mr. Perry's attention. He glanced at his watch in an
                        important, high-official sort of manner, then relaxed genially.
                    “Time yet—time yet,” he said. “We can still afford our ladies five more
                        minutes in which to complete the mysteries of the toilette.—Constantine has
                        preceded us on foot to the station. I have had a word with him this morning.
                        He appears serious; but that is as it should be. I, for one, would not have
                        it otherwise. For, indeed, I have not abstained from pressing home upon him
                        frequently, in familiar conversation, the very heavy responsibility which he
                        undertakes in undertaking my daughter's future happiness.—But our fair
                        companions tarry. I must see to it.—A
                        moment to fetch Charlotte and Mamma and I will be with you again, Mr.
                        Hammond. Au revoir—a bientôt.”
                    And, humming strange melodies, which I imagine were intended to represent
                        Mendelssohn's time-honoured Wedding March, Mr. Perry bestowed himself within
                        the painted cage of the lift, and was borne aloft, vanishing god-like in the
                        upper regions of the atmosphere.
                    Yet, after all, was it jocund? I asked myself this question many times as we
                        set forth, a self-conscious and ill-assorted little band, upon the morning
                        of that particularly grilling September day. For clearly, to my thinking, it
                        would have been far better had we proceeded in detachments—Leversedge and
                        myself by boat and the others by train, or vice
                            versâ. I cannot think it fair to keep a man constantly under
                        inspection when he is just about to condemn himself to that form of
                        life-sentence commonly known as marriage. And the disadvantages of the
                        bridegroom's position were aggravated, in the present instance, by the fact
                        that this was but a dress rehearsal, the production of the piece not really
                        taking place until to-morrow. I had ventured to submit that it would be a
                        more merciful arrangement did the religious marriage follow hard on the
                        heels of the civil one; and did we—Perry père et
                            mère and myself—say farewell to the happy pair at Geneva, leaving them to set forth promptly upon
                        their wedding journey.
                    But the wisdom of the Perry family decided otherwise, and I fancy the
                        proprietor of the Grand Hôtel, foreseeing
                        custom, fortified them in their decision. It was to be a fête, a gala. The little grey English Church,
                        which stands in such agitatingly close proximity to the railway that passing
                        trains take a very active part in the service, was to be turned into St.
                        George's, Hanover Square, for the event. All would be there, friends and
                        enemies alike—for what pretty and popular woman but is bound to number a few
                        of the latter among her acquaintance, specially in the restricted society of
                        a summer hotel?
                    “I could have wished to give my daughter away,” Mr. Perry had said to me,
                        “within the hallowed precincts of one of our fine, old, historic piles. But,
                        since that pious satisfaction is denied me, we must make the most we can of
                        what we have,—make the most of it. A foreign land, an alien tongue, but
                        still a rally of warm English hearts about our blushing bride. This our
                        sojourn at the Grand Hôtel will have
                        secured us. We can count on it, I am happy to say,—count on it.”
                    So we set forth for Geneva, a self-conscious and ill-assorted little band, as
                        I have already stated; and should doubtless have returned thence in the same order, or disorder, save for an
                        unexpected turn of feeling on the part of Charlotte Perry.
                    And here let me pause to render a tribute to a lady of whom I have so far, I
                        am afraid, spoken with but moderate enthusiasm, viz., Mrs. Mertyns, who, on
                        this memorable day, certainly did her possible to mitigate the
                        embarrassments of the situation.
                    It fell to my lot to convey Mrs. Perry across the many lines of metals
                        intervening between the platform and the train for Geneva. Have you ever
                        happened to drive a tender-hearted stray sheep and a loitering lamb? I never
                        have; yet after my experience with Mrs. Perry I seem to possess a quite
                        professional knowledge of such driving. For it required all the authority,
                        let alone all the persuasive arts, of which I am master to compel the dear,
                        good woman—glorious in a purple poplin costume, plentifully “relieved” with
                        gold sequins—across those many lines of rails. With the greatest activity I
                        had to head her off to right and left, as she turned and doubled, greatly
                        flustered, afraid of non-existent trains, afraid of possible disaster to Mr.
                        Perry, supremely afraid of parting with her lamb, the Carissima; afraid that
                        innocent creature would be left behind, lost, never bestowed safely within
                        the matrimonial fold after all. And it was with sincere relief, after prolonged struggles, that I beheld the
                        grim form and cast-iron countenance of the great Septimus Mertyns advancing
                        upon us. Two might attain where one had failed. To begin with, he assured my
                        agitated charge that there was plenty of time; to go on with, that he had
                        secured seats for us all in a first-class carriage. He proceeded, with my
                        assistance, kindly but firmly to hoist the panting lady up the narrow iron
                        steps on to the back platform of the said carriage, promising that he would
                        go and find the other members of the party and bring them to her.
                    In the doorway Mrs. Mertyns met us. Forgive me if I fall into the style of
                        contemporary fiction—for truly Mrs. Mertyns is nothing if not
                        contemporary—and describe her as a long, diaphanous dream of a woman,
                        clothed in slightly faded mauve and white. Her head was crowned by a large
                        white chip hat, embowered in shaded mauve carnations, and smothered in a
                        vast white net veil tied in a bow high at the back. Her rather thin throat
                        was surrounded by several rows of very good pearls. I understand that
                        pearls, like germinating seeds or hatching chickens, need a tender and
                        steady warmth to bring them to perfection. To secure this, Mrs. Mertyns
                        invariably wore her pearls. My imagination fails to picture her without
                        them.
                    As of course you know, her looks, in certain circles, have afforded a perennial subject of controversy. Some persons
                        assert that she is washed out, sandy, her features meaningless, her figure
                        quite uncomfortably attenuated, her arms of a length and leanness almost
                        distressing. They amiably add, as a rule, that she is unpardonably
                        self-conscious both in speech and bearing; while other, and no doubt more
                        enlightened, critics find in each of the above peculiarities an added note
                        of beauty. Not the robust flesh-and-blood beauty, well understood, which the
                        mistaken Greek loved to sculpture or the mistaken Venetian to paint; but a
                        beauty altogether refined and spiritual—a joy to the imagination rather than
                        the eye, a sentiment rather than a sight, a flavour rather than a feeling, a
                        face and form, in short, redolent of infinite suggestion. These critics
                        usually wind up their discourse with a reference to Septimus Q.C., and
                        murmur—“But, how could she?”—in faltering voices.
                    For my own part, I have always held Mrs. Mertyns to be a very clever person;
                        clever to the point of possessing all the effect of a pretty woman, while
                        being, in point of fact, a plain one. This is among the very highest of
                        social arts. The successful professor of it commands my applause. The more
                        so, probably, that our own well-beloved country-women are somewhat incapable
                        in the exercise of it. They need to be really quite pretty before they know
                        how to appear so. Such conduct is weakly
                        realistic. Neither their French nor American sisters are much handicapped by
                        such obviously false modesties.
                    Mrs. Mertyns, standing just inside the railway carriage, took good flustered
                        Mrs. Perry's thick warm hand tenderly in her long thin one.
                    “I am so truly glad you are the first to come,” she said, with gentle haste,
                        “because if you object, or if you think darling Charlotte would object, you
                        can tell me so at once—we are old enough friends, dear Mrs. Perry, to dare
                        to be truthful, are we not?—and I will disappear immediately.”
                    She crossed her left hand over her right, and, with raised elbow and drooping
                        wrist, took my left hand and held it.
                    “Ah! so you are admitted,” she added brightly. “That is delightful. It gives
                        me hope that I am not intrusive, after all, in thus coming.”
                    Then she swayed over Mrs. Perry with renewed tenderness.
                    “You know how close Charlotte's and my intercourse has been, and how deeply I
                        value her friendship—”
                    “I'm sure you've always tried to behave most kindly by her,” put in Mrs.
                        Perry.
                    “Kindly?—no, dear Mrs. Perry, the word, the idea, is out of place between
                        your Charlotte and myself. I shall always feel it has been one of the truest
                        privileges of my life to be so much with
                        her, to watch her growing powers. Her charm is very, very great—you feel it
                        so, don't you, Mr. Hammond?”
                    “It is unique,” I replied.
                    Mrs. Perry stared at me.
                    “Well, I suppose I never shall understand you clever people,” she remarked in
                        tones of slight dejection. “As I said, I'm sure there's no one—though I'm
                        sure Charlotte's a very fortunate girl in having Mr. Leversedge care so much
                        about her—that Mr. Perry and I would sooner have—”
                    I cast an agonised glance upon Mrs. Mertyns. If she possessed tact, in
                        heaven's name let her use it!
                    “Ah yes,” she said, rising nobly to the occasion, “Mr. Leversedge is so good
                        and unaffected—so honest, and English. Everyone must see that. But he is
                        very, very fortunate too, dear Mrs. Perry. Charlotte's friends, of course,
                        cannot help dwelling very much in thought on that. To be her constant
                        companion would be so truly elevating for any man. Think of the delight of
                        her brightness and depth of character! The combination is
                        extraordinary—”
                    Mrs. Mertyns paused, looking up, smiling at the roof of the railway carriage,
                        her shoulders slightly raised and her long wrists crossed just below her
                        bosom. Then she swayed over Mrs. Perry again in sudden anxiety.
                    
                    “But you are sure you do not think my coming to-day an intrusion?” she said.
                        “I felt so strongly about it. I felt I really must come. And yet I was
                        diffident. We discussed the question yesterday evening all through dinner. I
                        think all my people would have liked to come. But I could not allow that. I
                        know your Charlotte so well. I know and respect her instinctive shrinking
                        from publicity. And so I said I would just slip away quietly with my
                        husband. We would take a little Darby and Joan day's holiday. We could
                        efface ourselves immediately if it seemed better to do so. But I thought it
                        possible Septimus might be useful, for I gathered from what Mr. Perry told
                        me there were papers to be witnessed, and my husband is so utterly
                        dependable and so accustomed—ah! dear friend,” she cried, making a little
                        rustling rush forward with both arms outstretched.
                    “Well, then, here's Lottie at last! And I'm sure I'm as thankful as possible,
                        Mr. Hammond, for I was as nervous as could be something would happen to some
                        of them.”
                    This parenthetically from Mrs. Perry.
                    Charlotte looked exceedingly pretty, standing there framed by the dark lines
                        of the doorway. She wore a biscuit-coloured dress with very large pink
                        sleeves to it; and a hat to match, garlanded with pink roses, the broad brim
                        of which, turning up, formed a pale
                        straw-coloured nimbus about her head. The girl's mouth gathered, quivered;
                        her eyes were adorably dewy. She and Mrs. Mertyns held each other's hands,
                        looked at each other, sighed, kissed with a sort of chastened rapture,
                        murmuring simultaneously—
                    “Dear, dear friend!”
                    “I have not done wrong in coming?”
                    It seemed as if Charlotte Perry could not answer. She threw back her head,
                        smiled, bit her lip. Then suddenly she seemed to become aware of my
                        presence. Her breath caught, as though in pain. This appeared to me a quite
                        uncalled-for demonstration, for had we not come down together inside the
                        omnibus to the station?
                    Mrs. Mertyns took the place by the window—drew Miss Perry down on the one
                        next to her. I think it had been her intention I should occupy the vacant
                        place opposite,—upon the seat of the other she had piled parasols, dust
                        cloaks, and a large basket of fruit and flowers,—but if such was her
                        intention it was frustrated by the advent of our active Perry, who whipped
                        into the empty place, rubbing his hands.
                    “Delightful surprise!” he cried. “I am sure, most delightful. A display of
                        sympathy, of spontaneous solicitude, altogether flattering to myself and my
                        family; adding one more to an already long list of charming acts of
                            courtesy. We are in your debt, and how
                        to pay,” said Mr. Perry, with sudden solemnity, “passes me. I ransack the
                        chambers of my brain, but they are empty of any suggestion of a possible
                        means of payment. Yet,” he continued, brightening, “who knows, a time may
                        come, an opportunity may be granted me, and then— 
                            The faithful heart bound fast to thine by gracious friendly
                                deeds,
                            Will rouse to stalwart action interpreting thy needs.”
                        
                    Charlotte Perry looked hard at the speaker. Then she addressed her friend in
                        low and hurried accents.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER II
                    JUST then the door opened at the far end of the car and admitted
                        Leversedge. He came down the narrow gangway between the seats, lifting his
                        hat to two athletic Englishwomen of the High School variety, whose
                        overflowing hold-alls he slightly displaced in passing.
                    “Oh, here you all are,” he said. “How d'ye do, Mrs. Mertyns? No, pray, don't
                        anybody move. I see you're all settled.”—Mrs. Perry and Septimus, it may be
                        remarked, occupied the single seats the other side of the gangway.—“I can
                        just as well find a place farther up the carriage.”
                    All the same he loitered, gazing at Charlotte Perry; hoping, as I thought,
                        that she would make some sign. But she made none. Leversedge turned away. I
                        followed him. And so it happened that we journeyed towards Geneva, sitting
                        opposite to each other, rather cut off from the rest of the company. It was
                        extremely hot, and we had to pull down the canvas blinds and half close the
                        windows to keep out sun and dust. The train roared along; the vineyards
                        reeling past on one hand, the rocks, white
                        with fluttering mouettes and lapped by
                        clear little green waves, on the other. It need hardly be stated that the
                        two athletic Englishwomen had left all windows down and blinds up in their
                        compartment, thus supplying us with a liberal measure of glare, cinders, and
                        engine smoke. Above the noise of the train, from time to time, I heard Mrs.
                        Mertyns' somewhat senseless and soulless laugh. Like many women in society,
                        she had a tendency to laugh, not in proportion as she was amused, but in
                        proportion as she was bored. I could well believe Perry père's style was finely irritating in all this
                        heat. The more excellent of her, then, to have come! I have never
                        entertained a better opinion of Mrs. Mertyns.
                    Leversedge, meanwhile, sat silent, his long legs outstretched beneath the
                        little iron table between us, his head bent, his mind busy, judging by his
                        expression, with rather gloomy thoughts.
                    “Sometimes it strikes me we men are awful brutes when it comes to marriage,”
                        he said suddenly. “We want so much. We must have everything. Nothing less
                        than the whole will satisfy us.”
                    “Upon my word, I think we give a good deal in return,” I replied. “The
                        counter-demand is considerable, a matter by no means to be sneezed at—so
                        considerable, in my estimation, that, as you see, I have never yet found
                        myself equal to meeting it, and so remain, to the present hour, at once hugging and deploring my state of single
                        blessedness. Oh, I'm all on the man's side, believe me, in marriage. In my
                        eyes the bridegroom, the husband, is the leader of a forlorn hope—at once a
                        noodle and a hero.”
                    “Thank you,” Leversedge said; “you are encouraging. But the truth is, you
                        don't understand, you're out of it.”
                    I am afraid I made use of an expletive which had better not be repeated.
                        Leversedge regarded me with an expression both humorous and dogged.
                    “Yes, you're out of it,” he repeated. “It's not that you are unequal to
                        meeting the demand. You've never felt the thing. You've never been knocked
                        out of time by a woman. Bless me, you don't stop to calculate the amount of
                        giving and taking then; you don't weigh things; you don't speculate. When a
                        man meets his fate, he meets it. The whole matter is outside argument. It is
                        just so,—he may be a noodle, but he doesn't stop to care about that.”
                    Leversedge paused a moment, shifted his position, laid hold with both hands
                        of the woodwork of the back of the seat high above his head.
                    “No, the man doesn't give much in proportion to the woman, to the girl, to
                        the good woman,” he said. “For the man knows the ropes, after all; he has a
                        precious clear idea of what he is driving at. He knows what he wants quite
                        well, 
                            shame-
                            shamelessly
                         lessly well, in too many cases.
                        But hers is an act of faith almost divine. God in heaven! it seems to me
                        there is no limit to the gratitude, to the reverence, Hammond, with which we
                        should regard an innocent girl who is willing to marry any one of us.”
                    He smiled at me.
                    “I beg your pardon for prosing like this. But it's borne in upon me to-day
                        that I am a wretchedly selfish animal. And I suppose something of the cheap
                        old superstition clings to me that in confessing your sins you rid yourself
                        of them, to a certain extent at all events. A better man than I, under all
                        the circumstances, would have talked less and done something practical. Old
                        Perry's income, such as it is, pretty well dies with him. And she ought to
                        have money, she can use it—it is necessary to a woman with her gifts, and it
                        is miserable to think of her wanting it, now or any when. A better man than
                        I would have seen to all that, provided against any bother that way—and then
                        set her free, given her up, whether she would or not.”
                    Leversedge threw himself forward, and for once the blood rushed into his
                        face.
                    “But I can't,” he said huskily,—“I can't. Before God, I have tried; but I
                        have not the pluck. I want her. I must have her—for a little while—just for
                        a little while—and then—”
                    
                    At that moment I perceived Mrs. Mertyns standing up and waving to me, across
                        the backs of the intervening seats. It was as well. Leversedge had given
                        himself away rather completely. The conversation could not continue at that
                        level of emotion; and one always has a sense of bathos in struggling towards
                        the surface after such a plunge into the deep sea of feeling. Women hold
                        hands, and kiss each other, and cry a little, on the way up to the surface,
                        which must be a great help. But to us, to whom these tender modifications of
                        the situation are denied, the ascent is extremely embarrassing. So I, not
                        unwillingly, obeyed Mrs. Mertyns' summons, leaving that dear fool,
                        Leversedge, to recover his equanimity in private.
                    Mrs. Mertyns looked slightly distracted.
                    “Do come, Mr. Hammond,” she exclaimed as I approached. “See, there is a place
                        for you. Mr. Perry will kindly put my odds and ends on to the table.
                        Yes—thanks, so.—I am just starting that delightful thinking game dear Hattie
                        St. John taught us the other day after luncheon. And we want a sixth—we
                        really must have you.”
                    Mrs. Mertyns leaned her elbow upon the table; she flapped at me with her long
                        narrow hand. Her eyes expressed a more direct sentiment than was at all
                        their wont. They intimated that something really had to be done, they took
                        me into their confidence.
                    
                    “Mr. Perry quite surpassed himself, quite excelled in it,” she continued. “He
                        gave us the most interesting examples. And Charlotte must learn it. I am
                        devoted to thinking games; they fill in so many stray minutes when
                        otherwise”—she laughed. “It will prevent our feeling this oppressive heat.
                        Now, Mr. Hammond, you shall give us a subject—an event or a character in
                        history or fiction (really it is an excellent exercise of memory)—while I
                        count twelve, do you see? Then in twelve words describe it; and then we have
                        twelve guesses between us, in turn, you understand. And you answer in
                        numbers as we get more or less near it. Twelve, of course, means game. Now,
                        remember, we all have to speak as quick as possible.”
                    And we played that thinking game. Oh yes, indeed we played it, as the train
                        rushed on, past Rolle, past Nyon, past Coppet. We had the burning of Jeanne
                        d'Arc in twelve words; and the Relief of Lucknow in twelve words; and the
                        battle of Cannæ, and the interviewing of the Sphinx by Œdipus, and the
                        Reform Bill of '32—this last naturally from Septimus Mertyns.
                    “A bloodstained deck,” said Mr. Perry.
                    “One, two, three, four,” counted Mrs. Mertyns.
                    “No—no, three, but three,” he cried. “Blood-stained is one, only one, joined
                        by the ever-welcome hyphen.—Torn canvas.”
                    
                    “Dear me,” put in Mrs. Perry, “I always have disliked shipwrecks. I suppose
                        it's the Princess Alice pleasure steamer—poor creatures, an
                        acquaintance of Aunt Trumbull had relatives on board—going down in the
                        river. I wish Mr. Perry wouldn't allude to such things, on a wedding-day,
                        too.”
                    “Four, five,” cried Mrs. Mertyns.
                    “Noble commander laid low,—my love, you are entirely mistaken,—in
                        victory.”
                    “Coppet—trois minutes d'arrêt,” this from
                        the platform as the train slowed up.
                    I rose, leaving Nelson extended upon the gory deck, with Perry père, so to speak, waving the British flag over
                        his honoured and prostrate form, and went to look after Leversedge. He lay
                        back in his place fast asleep. His face was singularly peaceful, almost
                        childlike in its simple serenity. But he held his hard brown hat stiffly
                        with both hands, and worked it slowly up and down his knees even in
                        sleeping. And that was not at all pleasant to see, somehow.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE joyless little ceremony was over, and Leversedge had got his
                        wife as far as civil law could give her to him. His will was signed and
                        witnessed by Mertyns and myself. Then we turned from business to the
                        courting of pleasure. We ate a smart luncheon at a smart hotel, towards the
                        end of which entertainment Mr. Perry was with difficulty restrained from
                        making a speech. Finally we went for a walk. At this point Mrs. Mertyns'
                        courage ran out; she departed, with many protestations of sorrow, to seek
                        for some distinguished Genevan littérateur
                        whom she suddenly felt an overwhelming necessity to call upon. She went away
                        in a cab, with a white awning to it like the tester of a four-post bed. She
                        left us Septimus.
                    Perry père et mère clung to each other
                        through that dreadful walk, clung to the Carissima, clung to the rest of us.
                        Escape was impossible. Like Wordsworth's cloud, “we moved together, if we
                        moved at all.” It was hot and dusty, and the horror of being “out for the day” was most sensibly upon us.
                    Returning from the farther shore of the Rhone by the broad Pont des Bergues,—to the middle of which
                        Rousseau's Island is moored by a little iron suspension bridge,—good Mrs.
                        Perry made a sudden diversion. There was yet a weary hour before our train
                        started. She begged plaintively to be taken on to the island. Not that she
                        was filled by the spirit of pilgrimage, by memories of the delightful pages
                        of the Confessions, or the disintegrating ones of the
                            Social Contract. She saw trees, and green benches whereon
                        she might rest a while, and seek relief from the fatigues and trampings of
                        this very peripatetic day.
                    Leversedge took care of her, found her a cool spot, sat by her saying, I am
                        sure, an infinity of nice kind things. Mr. Perry and Mr. Mertyns drifted
                        into a ponderous conversation on the affairs of the nation at home and
                        abroad. While I found myself standing under the narrow shimmering shade of
                        the great poplars with the fair Charlotte,—the sapphire waters of the Rhone
                        rushing down between the white piers of the bridges at the pace of a
                        galloping horse; the façades of the solid square houses, fronting the quay
                        and its rows of round-headed plane trees, lying in strong sunshine and blue
                        shadow; the city piled up behind to the stern mass of the Romanesque
                        cathedral, the two squat towers of which
                        showed hard and dark against the pale lilac limestone terraces of the
                            Grand Salève.
                    The girl's pretty eyes had been reproachful whenever they chanced to meet
                        mine during that deadly day. They were reproachful still. I perceived that
                        the atmosphere was electric, I feared we were on the verge of an
                        explanation, and I cordially detest explanations. So I talked, I did more, I
                        chattered. I gave my companion a really rather witty description of a
                        sentimental journey I had once made—in company with the friend who shall be
                        nameless-from Geneva, via Aix les Bains,
                        to Annecy, for the purpose of visiting Les
                            Charmettes—sacred to the memory of that most charming victim
                        of every conceivable false philosophy, Madame de Warens.
                    Suddenly the girl stopped me.
                    “You go too far,” she said, “for I cannot believe you are utterly heartless,
                        and so you must be aware, in a measure, of all I am feeling.—Oh! I know you
                        are talking well—you usually do that. But, just now, that you should be
                        agreeable is of very slight moment to me.”
                    She raised her hand and pointed to the dark high-shouldered cathedral.
                    “You remember they burnt people up there, once upon a time,” she said. “Well,
                        I feel towards your talk much as those people must have felt towards the grasshoppers—listen to them
                        now—singing gaily in the sunshine while the flames leapt up that—”
                    “No, no, no, pardon me,” I cried. “It is you who go very much too far. For
                        goodness' sake don't souse us thus suddenly in a sea of tragedy right up to
                        the neck. Forgive my remarking that your illustration is a wild
                        exaggeration, altogether beyond the facts of the case.”
                    “You know what I have done, you know why I have done it, and you make
                        agreeable conversation. You have no word of recognition, of admission. Does
                        not your sense of justice compel you to own my sincerity at last?”
                    “Oh, quarrel with me as much as you like,” I said. “That is healthy enough.
                        But don't lose sight of the proportion of things, and indulge in distorted
                        comparisons. It is unworthy of your intelligence to do so, to go thus madly
                        beyond the facts of the case.”
                    The girl clasped her hands and moved a couple of steps aside, with one of
                        those swift movements which would look so excellently upon the stage.
                    “But can anything really go beyond the facts of the case?” she asked in tones
                        of sharp, thin distress.
                    Upon my word, I was very much provoked with the Carissima, provoked to the
                        point of being greatly minded to tell her,
                        once and for all, that she was a goose.
                    “Yes, most emphatically many things can,” I answered. “Does a man's love
                        carry so little weight with you that you dare speak as though to be the sole
                        and supreme object of it was a dire misfortune? Moreover, Leversedge comes
                        to you with his hands by no means empty. He does not merely offer you the
                        trivial matter of his whole heart, but the exceedingly substantial matter of
                        his whole fortune.”
                    The girl's colour had faded. She regarded me with some amazement. She had
                        often surprised me; now I proposed to have my turn.
                    “You cannot suppose money matters to me?” she faltered.
                    “Indeed,” I returned, “I can very readily suppose it. Money matters vitally
                        to every one of us who is in his, or her, sober senses. Miseries come
                        whether one is rich or whether one is poor; but, I own, I never encountered
                        any form of misery yet which money could not do a good deal to alleviate.
                        But that is not the main point; the main point is your very limited
                        appreciation of the affection of the man you are marrying.”
                    “Are you aware that you are simply scolding me?” my companion inquired
                        sweetly.
                    “Yes, I am perfectly well aware of it, my dear young lady,” I replied
                        genially. “And unless you actually run
                        away from me, or call for help, I am fully prepared to continue the process.
                        I am not nearly through with the business yet; and it is all for your
                        good—all, believe me. See now, you have done me the honour to be very
                        confidential with me. You have confided to me dreams of an ideal
                        affection.”
                    The colour rushed into the fair Charlotte's face again. She closed her
                        charming eyes, and raised her hand as though to ward off a blow. But the
                        vision of Leversedge was upon me; Leversedge in that basting railway
                        carriage, and the broken passion of his utterance. I would not relent.
                    “Bear with me while I point out to you that those dreams are but pale and
                        ghostly fictions, beside the real, the very full-blooded, romance of
                        Leversedge's affection. All that you have vaguely imagined yourself feeling
                        regarding some possible, conceivable, but non-existent being, he positively
                        and actually feels regarding you. Don't you understand, you are the last
                        word of poetry, of art, of religion—even—to him. And is that nothing? Is it
                        a slight matter to be to a man the incarnation, the ultimate expression, of
                        all enchantments, all delights—that in you he finds the realisation of his
                        highest aspirations—finds it there or nowhere?”
                    I paused, somewhat out of breath from my own—most unusual—flight of
                        eloquence. I am not often thus loudly
                        didactic. To be so is to be crude, and I shudder at crudity. Even now I
                        dared not pause long, lest a quite opposite side of the case should present
                        itself to me, and I should begin to fear not only that my enthusiasm was
                        slightly ridiculous, but that I might, after all, be presenting my hearer
                        with a garbled edition. Garbled or not, it appeared to work upon her. She
                        stood silent; and her pretty face, set in the aureole of her wide-brimmed,
                        rose-garlanded hat, wore a questioning expression somewhat—so I flattered
                        myself—new to it. And this encouraged me. I held a brief for
                        Leversedge—well, then, I would strike while the iron was hot, I would go on,
                        I would plead his cause yet further.
                    “My dear young lady, you have been bewitched by much talk, by much reading,
                        by all manner of ingenious hair-splittings regarding the emotions, regarding
                        the relation of men and women. Do come back out of all that, all those
                        misleading generalisations and fanciful interpretations, and deal with the
                        matter in hand. You have just married a man who adores you, to whom
                        you—briefly—represent rapture; well, lend yourself a little to the
                        situation. It is not a contemptible one. For, to how many women do you
                        suppose it happens, in their whole lifetime, ever to represent that to any
                        member of our sex?”
                    
                    The Carissima's lips quivered. She looked very young just then; and, queerly
                        enough, I saw in her a strong likeness to her mother—to a clock-moon of long
                        ago, paradisaic rather than suburban. I had an angelic moment, wherein my
                        spirit yearned in purest and most praiseworthy pity and hope over Charlotte
                        Perry. A little more and I could have prayed—to “whatever gods there be”—for
                        the salvation of her.
                    “Constantine should tell me all this himself,” she said.
                    “Wait,” I replied, the angelic humour strong in me. “He will do more than
                        tell you—only give him time. Remember, Leversedge is one of those who live
                        ballads, not one of those who merely sit at home and write them. Only don't
                        frighten him by narrow criticism, and quarrel with him because he does not
                        conform altogether to fashionable standards. Give him room. Then he will not
                        disappoint you. He has rather magnificent stuff in him. And he is yours to
                        make or to break. Make him—believe me, he's worth it—make him, and for you,
                        also, life shall be sweet.”
                    The girl came close to me.—“And that hideous hallucination?” she
                        whispered.
                    “Will vanish into the nothingness out of which it came,” I answered.
                    The narrow shadow of the poplars had shifted, so that Charlotte, pink-sleeved
                        and rose-crowned, stood in the full gaiety
                        of the sunshine, above the rushing blue river.
                    “If I make him, will you believe in me, at last?” she asked.
                    “Down to the ground. I will hail you as the dearest and most sacred thing on
                        earth,—a clever and beautiful woman who is not above giving happiness, who
                        is not ashamed of being something of an angel into the bargain—”
                    Ah! Lydia Castern, why does the remembrance of you invariably return upon me
                        in moments of exaltation such as these, when—for a little while—I harbour
                        the notion that the practice of certain old-fashioned virtues, so patiently
                        and faithfully practised by you, may, after all, be the surest way of
                        pleasantness and directest path of peace?
                    But here the voice of Perry père, raised in
                        playful admonition, put a stop to further conversation.
                    “Come, come,” he cried, “'tis time to move, though I regret to quit this
                        interesting spot—to the student of literature, I'm sure, most interesting.
                        Not that the writings of the ‘self-torturing sophist’ have ever greatly
                        appealed to me. No, no, as an Englishman, as a husband and father, I say—and
                        must always say—give me something manly, give me something sound, give me,
                        in short, sentiments which, without the most fugitive movement of apology, I
                        can permit to lie open upon my wife's drawing-room table.”
                    
                    Leversedge had sauntered up to us. He stood near Charlotte.
                    “Tired?” I heard him ask her quietly.
                    “I own it,” continued Mr. Perry, with lofty humility, “for 'tis, no doubt, a
                        reflection on my culture; yet I own that the genius of the French, as a
                        nation, is foreign to me. A want of grit, Mr. Hammond, a lack of the
                        substantial. Too many kickshaws, eh? just a trifle too many kickshaws and
                        sauces.”
                    The girl hesitated a moment, then she looked very charmingly at
                        Leversedge.
                    “Yes,” she said, “I am rather tired. To tell the truth, I dread the noise and
                        dust of the train.”
                    She glanced at me, her eyes swam in possible tears, her lips sketched a
                        possible and all-seductive kiss. Then she turned swiftly to Leversedge
                        again.
                    “Shall we desert the others?” she asked him. “Shall we leave them to
                        encounter the miseries of the railway without us? Will you go back with
                        me—alone—by boat?”
                    Leversedge's head went up with a sudden jerk. His breath caught in his
                        throat. I fancy he did not see anything very distinctly for a second or two,
                        though there was an immense gladness in his face. It was rather moving; and
                        I addressed myself to Perry père, in
                        haste, regarding the flimsy, the
                        gilt-gingerbread character of the literature of the French nation—the lack
                        of humour of Molière, general cheapness of M. de
                            Voltaire, and, to come down to our own day, the deplorable want
                        of style in such men as Flaubert and Gautier. I
                        took my examples, perhaps, slightly at random. Meanwhile I heard Leversedge
                        laugh a little—almost as a child laughs.
                    “ Will I?” he said. “Do you really mean it?—Will I—will I not?”
                    Mrs. Perry talked to me all the way to the station, along the flaming
                            Rue du Mont Blanc.
                    “I suppose there's no objection to their going off alone together like that,
                        Mr. Hammond,” she said. “Mr. Perry made no objection, and, of course, we all
                        know Joseph is very tenacious of appearances. But it does seem to me
                        strange, only half married as they are. But then everything does seem
                        strange to-day somehow; and, you see, it is so very warm, and I get such
                        giddy turns. Dear me, I'm sure up at the Consul's, when all those papers
                        were signing, the room turned right round with me, and I thought I should
                        have fallen, which made me dreadfully nervous, because, of course, it would
                        have been most mortifying for Charlotte and Mr. Perry. But, you see, I can't
                        help feeling a little upset somehow, with all the marrying twice over. I'm
                        sure none of my relations were ever married like that, nor any of Mr. Perry's either. And I really don't feel I
                        know who Charlotte is for the rest of to-day. I've been worrying about
                        whether she is Mrs. Leversedge yet, or only our daughter, just as usual; and
                        I can't make out anyhow. I've been thinking if anything was to happen before
                        to-morrow—which I'm sure I hope it won't—to make her name appear in the
                        papers, whatever would they call her? I don't know. And it makes me quite
                        nervous. It seems almost a scandalous thing not to be sure about your own
                        daughter's name, now doesn't it, Mr. Hammond.”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IV
                    AS though the day had not already been long I enough, we broke out
                        into extensive festivity at the Grand
                            Hôtel that evening. We had indulged in small dances before,
                        when the gold and crimson chairs and sofas fled back against the walls of
                        the salon, while the band brayed lustily
                        upon the verandah. But to-night—whether by request of Perry père, I know not—proceedings were upon a
                        grander scale. The neighbouring hotels and pensions had sent us their
                        contingent of English and American youth, English and American maturity;
                        while even the native population had subscribed precious specimens, with
                        those petticoats disproportionately short in the one sex and ties
                        disproportionately narrow in the other, those necks quite unnecessarily
                        large and uncovered in both, which are so characteristic of the descendants
                        of William Tell, and of the conquerors of Morat and Grandson. In honour of
                        these guests the hotel was lighted from end to end; there were even rumours
                        of supper to be obtained in the salle
                        à-manger. The rooms were really crowded.
                        We were nothing, indeed, if not gay that evening.
                    On our return from Geneva, I had dined with Leversedge and the Perry family
                        in the restaurant. Dined? rather say feasted! And Perry père had been horribly profuse in anecdote; but
                        I capped his vilest quotations, I applauded his stalest stories. For the
                        Carissima was gentle, natural, wholly captivating; while Leversedge held
                        himself gallantly, and had a light in his eyes good to see. And these things
                        produced in me an amiability little short of divine. I so very seldom am
                        overtaken with charitable activities in respect of my fellow-men, I so
                        seldom do anything—in the least burdensome to myself—to promote their
                        welfare, that I was really quite overcome by my own successful altruism. If,
                        thanks to me—for had I not, overruling the distaste of the one, and scruples
                        of the other, pushed these two into each other's arms, thus finally and
                        irrevocably?—if, I say, the half marriage went so merrily, might not the
                        whole marriage go to perfection? For the time I enjoyed all the proud
                        pleasures of the preacher, the evangelist, the director. I comprehended the
                        fascinations of the sacerdotal position. I had “played with souls” for their
                        good, temporal and eternal; and had won them, though the odds against such
                        winning were extremely heavy. I had saved Leversedge's reason, probably his
                            life into the bargain. I had converted
                        the Carissima. And, for the time, I own it, my conceit of myself was
                        colossal—rampantly, gloriously blatant.
                    It was in this spirit of profound self-congratulation that I beheld
                        Leversedge and his bride pass out into the dusky brightness of the garden,
                        and that I conducted Mrs. Perry to a gilded chair in the salon, whence she could witness the humours of
                        the dance; while Mr. Perry, full of dinner, hilarity, and parental pride,
                        instituted himself Leader of the Revels, encouraging the musicians, and
                        inducing the wildest confusion by introducing young ladies, of whose names
                        and nationalities he was quite uncertain, to gentlemen, whom he did not in
                        the very least know.
                    Then the sweet influences of accomplished duty pervaded me—a large, digestive
                        calm, subtly mingled with the blissful serenity of one upon whose
                        undertakings the gods have smiled, so that he finds himself both a better
                        and abler man than he had ever imagined himself to be. I retired into the
                        hall, to a secluded corner behind one of the groups of pillars supporting
                        the first-floor gallery. There I sat and smoked, and thought—as I invariably
                        do think when I am feeling very good—of the white rectory house away in
                        slumberous Midlandshire, of the old ecclesiastical historian (his living
                        interest in things long dead, his deadly indifference regarding things still
                        living), and of the woman I ought to have
                        married, the only woman, as I firmly believe (when I am feeling very good),
                        that I ever really loved, the woman I never make the slightest effort to
                        see—sweet Lydia Castern.—And meanwhile I watched the passing crowd, and,
                        since the double doors of the salon,
                        facing me, stood wide open, caught passing glimpses of the dancers, my
                        senses pleasantly dulled by the sound of many footsteps, many voices, the
                        rustle of women's garments, across all which, advantageously tempered by
                        distance, came the strains of the band.
                    Surely I might take my ease. Was not everything going to admiration? Out
                        there, under the stars, amid the magic of the fair September night, was not
                        Constantine Leversedge making love, his soul delivered from the grotesque
                        and ghastly dream of the diabolic dog? And was not Charlotte, née Perry, listening, her soul delivered from
                        dreams hardly less grotesque and ghastly—from false standards of taste, of
                        fashion, from false refinements, false intellectualities, from a silly
                        pursuit of decadent eccentricities? Was she not beginning to comprehend what
                        an exquisite, yet very simple solution—notwithstanding the prurient purities
                        of contemporary feminine novelists and reformers—true-love offers to the
                        much-vexed question of the sexes? Beginning to comprehend how deep-rooted
                        and terrible, yet how exceedingly pretty a
                        pastime, is the love of an honest man—and many men are honest, after all,
                        you know—for an honest woman?
                    My soul expanded under these charming meditations. For was I not the deus ex machina, was not this good work mainly
                        of my making? Had I yielded to the Carissima's thoughtless coquetries, and
                        involved myself in any intimate relation to her, how different the result!
                        It was the cut of her shoes that saved me? Perish the thought!—it was my own
                        high-mindedness, my own self-forgetting appreciation of the justice of the
                        situation. Had I counselled Leversedge weakly to withdraw, instead of
                        bravely to remain, again how different the result! I beheld the vision of
                        two wasted lives. The Carissima, moreover, let loose upon society, possibly
                        to entangle me—yes, me, after all, in the end. Instead of which, here I sat,
                        replete with the perfect peace of conscious impeccability. Verily, how
                        delightful are the leisures of the righteous, how inspiring the repose of
                        him who seeks the advantage of others rather than advantage of his own! Five
                        minutes more, and I might have added a hundred and fifty-first to the
                        hundred and fifty Psalms of King David, with a difference—a difference
                        possibly somewhat in the direction of M. Tartufe. But I was
                        saved from any such disaster by the sound of a low grunt.
                    As I have already stated, I am—I thankfully
                        affirm—acquainted with but one human being who testifies to the fact of his
                        presence in this primitive manner. It is a little introductory habit of Mr.
                        Percy Gerrard; and he often employs it as a preface to observations the
                        reverse of agreeable—so I fancy, but then I own to a prejudice against Percy
                        Gerrard.
                    On the present occasion he had “stolen upon me softly”; and his manner struck
                        me as less intolerably superior than usual. He really seemed to wish to make
                        himself agreeable.
                    “'Evening, Hammond,” he murmured affably, as he dropped into a neighbouring
                        chair. “Dancing? How superfluous! You are very right to remain out here. The
                        modern bourgeois ballroom—and this, I
                        imagine, is pre-eminently bourgeois—is a
                        revolting spectacle. Few sights, indeed, can be more repulsive than a herd
                        of both sexes, underbred and perspiring, clasping each other's waists, and
                        revolving, with prolonged and boisterous fatuity, in time to some wholly
                        imbecile tune such as offends my ear at the present moment.”
                    Nevertheless, Gerrard pushed his chair farther to the left, with the evident
                        desire to gain a clearer view of the festivities going forward in the
                            salon. But a good many persons stood
                        about the doorway, and it was only at intervals that one obtained full sight
                        of the dancers.
                    “An exhibition of untamed animality!” he 
                            mur-
                            murmured
                         mured in tones of disgust. “I
                        hold it proof of the skin-deep quality of our vaunted civilisation that
                        performances of this description are countenanced, nay, encouraged—it is
                        humiliating to think of—by really very decently educated people.”
                    “From the Perfectly Ordered State, then, dancing is excluded?” I
                        inquired.
                    For I was still at peace with all mankind, and even Gerrard's unlovely
                        humours failed to ruffle me. I even played up to him, indulged him. In the
                        columns of The Present Day he had lately been sketching
                        Arcadias and Utopias according to his graceful fancy. He was not slow to
                        observe the allusion, and turned to me with a gleam of gratified vanity in
                        his dull eyes.
                    “Ah! you read those little things of mine!” he said. “They had merit—I knew
                        it.”
                    “Of course you knew it. It is the most abject of exploded fictions that a man
                        can write a masterpiece without knowing it.”
                    He directed his slow glance upon the crowd round the door of the salon again.
                    “Yes; I agree with you. I knew those articles had merit, and the best critics
                        confirmed my judgment. I have been asked to reprint them.”
                    “Do so,” I said. “The world will be the gainer.”
                    Gerrard gathered himself up in his chair—planting his small square feet on
                        the top rung of it —into a sort of
                        spiderlike blob. What an immensely displeasing creature he was!
                    “Yes, I think I shall reprint them,” he said. “That is the worst of
                        journalism—really beautiful things are too often lost, forgotten along with
                        the day that gave them birth. But, since you are interested in my visions,
                        in the Perfectly Ordered State, which, as I devoutly trust, is equivalent to
                        saying, in the Coming Civilisation, woman will resume her natural position,
                        that from which the moral and intellectual barbarism of the last few
                        centuries has ousted her with such deplorable results. In the Coming
                        Civilisation there will be a very hard-and-fast line drawn between the
                        public and the private life. For we have ceased most lamentably to
                        appreciate the decencies of the high wall, the heavy curtain, the locked
                        door. The Democratic Spirit, rightly understood, is disgustingly immodest.
                        It has done its best to murder secrecy and concealment, which are necessary
                        elements in all really exquisite living.”
                    The crowd opened to give passage to the American prima-donna, her well-preserved mother, and her stout poodle;
                        and, for the moment, the glistening floor of the ballroom and its racing
                        couples were disclosed to observation.
                    “And so I take it,” Gerrard continued, “in the Perfect State, woman will
                        again dance with all the grace of richly developed suggestion—behind closed doors—for the delectation of man,
                        who will sit still and just watch her, lending her the emotional support of
                        a profoundly sympathetic admiration, not the brutally material one of an
                        encircling arm.”
                    “The coming civilisation has a little Oriental turn to it then?” I
                        remarked.
                    “How should it be otherwise?” he replied. “In many matters the Oriental has
                        always continued true to the light that was in him. His mind has remained
                        unconfused by those weak notions of abstract justice, which war against the
                        life of sense and of society.”
                    Gerrard drew his hand over his moist, uncomfortably smooth hair. I may add
                        that it partially concealed his ears. Why does one instinctively distrust a
                        man whose ears are partially concealed by his hair?
                    “The pendulum has swung far enough now, in all conscience, in the western
                        ‘Hail Columbia!’ direction; with unalloyed gladness I hail indications of
                        the return, the eastern beat.—And that reminds me—talking of dancing, of
                        course you know that most exquisite place, Palewell Friars? I was down there
                        at Whitsuntide this year. They like to have me. You remember the view from
                        the cedar drawing-room? That delightful Italian garden and the river flowing
                        just below it, the lime avenues, and the broken ground in the deer-park studded with the old Spanish chestnuts,
                        composes as entirely a lovely home scene as—”
                    He stopped. Again the crowd had broken up about the door, disclosing a view
                        of the ballroom.
                    “A civil marriage is perfectly valid, perfectly sound in law?” Gerrard asked,
                        with curious abruptness, his voice cracking up queerly at the end of the
                        sentence.
                    “Unquestionably,” I said.
                    “Precisely—of course,” he spread himself in his chair.—“I know most of our
                        fine English country houses, from the inside, I am happy to say. But
                        Palewell always strikes me as unique, nothing jars, nothing obtrudes itself.
                        Its charm is a solicitation, not a demand; while there is the inimitable
                        flavour of an intensely aristocratic atmosphere pervading the whole scene,
                        the whole life.”
                    “Which exactly suits you?” I suggested. Gerrard turned his head, and I
                        perceived a singularly insolent gleam in his eyes.
                    “It does,” he replied; “you are perfectly right, it certainly does. I draw
                        breath there with the emotion of perfect and natural well-being, with which,
                        as I conceive, the Blest draw breath in the translucent air of Paradise—I am
                        at home.”
                    He paused and sighed.
                    “We all have intimations, at times, of that which is utterly in harmony with
                        the best of our own being—a delicious satisfaction of both the religious and artistic instincts. I had attended
                        mass one morning in that little gem of a chapel; and later, in the richly
                        toned and shadowed cedar drawing-room, while the sunlight yet caressed the
                        grey stone mullions of that range of vast windows, Lady Clare danced to
                        us.—You know her? Petite but svelte, sherry-coloured eyes and hair, with a
                        dark pencilling of eyelash and eyebrow. A skin like cream—yet that
                        illustration hardly gratifies me. It is a little disgustingly suggestive of
                        the cow, and the farm-girl, and a rude first-hand relation to nature.”
                    Gerrard lounged sideways in his chair, and flattened down his hair again.
                    “Think, therefore, I beseech you, only of cream in some delectable golden jug
                        of Renaissance workmanship, about the delicately turned body of which fauns
                        and naïads toy amorously, in a wonder of subtly interlacing lines. Yes, I
                        think that fairly renders the immediate sentiment of her appearance. It was
                        all very beautiful. The magnificent room, the high-bred woman, her bare neck
                        and arms braving the sunlight, on which those historic rubies—you know
                        them?—glowed and shone as she passed from the voluptuous monotony of the
                        Nautch to the frank gaminerie of the
                            Café Chantant.”
                    “Innocent alike of the intention of either?” I remarked.
                    “I really can't tell,” he said, with an effort at candour. “But I hope so; of
                        course I hope so, for it would go far to
                        carry out my cherished theory of woman.—And there were contrasts in the
                        setting of the scene which, emotionally speaking, were wonderfully helpful.
                        The other women present wore shirts and sailor hats, the men were in
                        breeches and dirty shooting-boots. Pour comble de
                            bonheur little Freddy Hellard lighted cigarettes, and no one
                        chid him. Ah, I shall long remember that morning, it was big with—”
                    Gerrard rose to his feet, peering in the direction of the ballroom. Again the
                        crowd had opened, drifting to right and left, while Leversedge and the
                        Carissima were revealed standing in the doorway. Evidently they had been
                        valsing. The girl's abundant hair was slightly disordered; she carried the
                        train of her soft peach-bloom coloured muslin dress over her arm. Leversedge
                        faced her. He was laughing a little, fanning her, talking to her. Things
                        went well, then? Verily, they went most exceedingly well. I thanked the
                        gods. I approved my own conduct in this business afresh. Yet I almost
                        regretted to see these lovers in the commonplace hurley-burley of a ball. I
                        could not find it in my heart to think it the very best taste in the world
                        that they should thus appear so conspicuously in public. Moreover, I wished
                        earnestly to believe them in that state of mind in which solitude, and the
                        repetition of certain sweet nothings, are so adorably full of high
                            illumination, high delight. That they
                        should tolerate the close contact of their fellow-creatures, that they
                        should have any desire for activity, disappointed me. Or, might I trust this
                        pointed to the light-heartedness that comes of complete happiness, the
                        exuberant gaiety which is born of fulness of content? There is a stage of
                        mental as well as physical well-being which, in all living things, expresses
                        itself in playfulness, skittishness, a disposition, as you may say frankly,
                        to jump about. Could it be—but oh, dear me, for that were indeed a notable
                        conversion!—that Charlotte, née Perry, had
                        reached the stage of innocent rapture in which all young and wholesome
                        creatures develop this disposition to jump about? Yet the peace of the—to
                        themselves, unexpectedly—virtuous being still upon me, I was disposed to
                        press a point in the direction of cheerfulness; to endure all things, in the
                        shape of that most unsavoury animal, Gerrard; to hope all things for the
                        salvation of Leversedge's mind; to believe all things, concerning its
                        purification from fashionable frivolities, of the Carissima's spirit. And as
                        to a questionableness of taste in thus appearing in public, well, after all,
                        what is Taste? The hedge from behind which the feeble shoot at the strong;
                        the refuge of the unproductive; the cloak under which the unsuccessful try
                        to cover the blackness of their envy; the spangles with which talent tries
                        so to dazzle the eyes of the commonplace
                        multitude, that it shall fail to see the stars of true genius shining on
                        quietly very far above its head. My metaphors might be confused, but my
                        determination of conviction was great. Constantine and Charlotte were right
                        to dance, it meant everything most promising that they should dance.
                        Taste?—who in the moment of honest gladness, or honest misery, ever stops to
                        think about taste?
                    Thus did I reason with myself, while Gerrard paused beside me, curiously
                        spiderlike. I quite thought he intended advancing upon the couple in the
                        doorway. But the crowd, to my relief, speedily closed up again, and he sank
                        back into his chair with a grunt.
                    “Poor girl,” he murmured, “I have a regard for her. It is painful. She was
                        worthy of a better fate than the embraces of that —. But let us turn to
                        something pleasanter, Hammond. I felt very thankful during that scene at
                        Palewell; for I recognised that my prayers had been answered, and that I had
                        not misread the signs of the times. I recognised that the reaction has set
                        in, in very truth; that the degrading fiction of the equality of the sexes
                        is already exploded; that education, doing its worst, has still failed to do
                        any abiding injury, since the fin de
                            siècle woman, true in instinct, though false in idea, mistakes
                        the badge of her servitude for the brevet of her emancipation, and, to prove the completeness of her liberty,
                        dances, like any slave-girl of the harem, for the entertainment of her
                        hereditary masters. A cynic might sneer at this, as a last and crowning
                        example of the illogic of the feminine mind. I cannot sneer. To me the
                        matter is solemnly glad from the bigness of its promise. ‘Woman never
                        civilises,’—thank God for that.”
                    I loathed Gerrard. But what was the good of relieving my feelings by being
                        rude to him, and telling him so? I had a growing conviction that he was here
                        for a set purpose, that he harboured designs of some sort against the peace
                        of mind of Leversedge and the Carissima. If I was rude to him, he would go
                        away and carry out his purpose—perhaps—all the sooner. Let them dance—let
                        them dance; meanwhile I would, greatly enduring, continue the
                        conversation.
                    “How about the suffrage, then,” I asked, as one greedy of information, “to
                        which, as a good Conservative, your organ—that is the technical term, I
                        believe—your organ, has devoted so many eloquent pages?”
                    “Assuredly, Hammond, you are not taken in by that little blague?” he said, turning his head slowly and
                        looking at me. “We need it for the protection of our own property, of
                        course, menaced as it is by the rapacity of the masses. Not one woman in a
                        million is public-spirited—the vast
                        majority have a savage rage for their own little possessions. We give it as
                        the rope, the enough of rope, which will enable these dear foolish female
                        creatures very effectually to hang themselves. Don't you see?”
                    “Most emphatically I do see,” I said.
                    Something in my tone, I suppose, conveyed to my hearer that I had had about
                        enough. Ah! how stupid is it ever to lose one's temper, even in a good
                        cause! Gerrard grunted, again rose to his feet. He stood, smoothing down his
                        hair, and looking intently at the open door of the ballroom.
                    “By the way,” he said, “you know, I suppose, whether this story of Mrs.
                        Mertyns' is true about that lunatic Leversedge's money?”
                    “What story?” I asked.
                    “Oh! that there is really a great deal of it, and that he has left it
                        unconditionally to his wife?”
                    I got up too, and pushed my chair aside to let the apostolic-looking Russian
                        poet and his daughters pass. They stopped a moment; we talked. I hoped
                        Gerrard would go. But he remained at my elbow.
                    “You signed the will, I understand,” he said. “Of course you know all about
                        it.”
                    “Upon my word,” I replied, “I do not see—if you will excuse my saying so—that
                            whatever I do know or don't know is
                        any particular concern of yours.”
                    Percy Gerrard is not constitutionally brave. I was delighted to note that he
                        backed away from me a little, that he was distinctly uncomfortable and
                        embarrassed.
                    “Oh! of course I don't want details,” he said hastily. “Pray, don't
                        misunderstand my motives in asking. I have, as I told you just now, a regard
                        for the poor girl. She is clever; in good hands something might be made of
                        her. I am aware, just as you are aware, and everybody else is aware, that
                        the man she is marrying is insane. And I own, I should be glad to know that
                        when her husband retires into the enforced seclusion which is already, in my
                        humble opinion, so desirable for the comfort and safety of other people,
                        she, poor thing, will at least be decently provided for.”
                    “Make your charitable mind easy,” I replied. “Mrs. Leversedge will be by no
                        means destitute.”
                    “So I understood. It is a relief to have you confirm the report.”
                    Gerrard gazed meditatively at me. He had regained all his habitual insolence
                        of demeanour.
                    “Thanks, Hammond,” he said. “You are really very obliging. That is all I
                        wanted to know.”
                    And he pushed his way through the crowd into the brilliantly-lighted salon.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER V
                    IT was the misfortune of Percy Gerrard that he had dirty fingers,
                        and smirched everything he touched. Those dirty fingers of his had broken up
                        the fulness of my self-complacency; I began to misdoubt the efficacy of the
                        gospel which I had so lately preached with such success. My mental
                        atmosphere changed, and for the worse; my whole outlook was affected. The
                        hall, for instance, which had only been pleasantly warm half an hour ago,
                        grew stuffy. The crowd, which had been amusing, grew oppressive. I had seen
                        handsome couples, nice young couples; I had noted gay little flirtations.
                        Now there seemed to start into disquieting prominence all sorts of queer
                        people; people one could not quite place, people who from their general
                        appearance suggested the idea that they had retired from active
                        service—whether of business or pleasure—and were just “stopping over,”
                        without much either of name or local habitation, making out the time till
                        the cemetery should claim them and the very little they still were should
                        utterly cease to be. A watering-place or
                        hotel population always contains figures of this sort. Women of uncertain
                        nationality, in strange garments, whose purses are light, whose eyes are
                        hungry for social or any other sort of recognition, and whose day, such as
                        it may have been, is very clearly over. Men of more than middle age, who
                        once no doubt held distinguished positions in distant lands; but who now
                        grumble away a purposeless existence on a pension or annuity, play a
                        fractious game of whist, and air imaginary grievances of gigantic
                        proportions.
                    Within the last half-hour these melancholy figures seemed to have multiplied
                        exceedingly in the hall of the Grand
                        Hôtel. And their near neighbourhood was depressing. For is it not
                        more or less thus that we all, every one of us, end, alas! Platitudes
                        regarding the brevity of things gay and pleasant, the certainty of the
                        ultimate arrival of things altogether the reverse, began to form themselves
                        on my lips. I recognised that I needed change of air, and that speedily.
                    Just within the great door of the portico I paused. The night was clear and
                        sweet. In the basin of the little dribbling fountain, frogs were
                        croaking—not the sonorous, full-throated chant of the southern frogs, but a
                        modest tinkling note as of tiny bells. Great bats were hawking over the
                        shrubberies in the dim garden. The stars
                        were very large and keen. While from the wine-shop of some hamlet, far up
                        among the vineyards, came the sound of a rude chorus of men's voices and the
                        thumping of a drum. Figures passed along the wide carriage-drive, slipping
                        out of the half darkness on the one hand and vanishing into it again on the
                        other, as figures pass across the stage in some interlude of a play. First
                        the lady of the scarlet silk blouse went swiftly by, talking excitedly to
                        her two companions, the debilitated Russian young men. She had a white lace
                        handkerchief thrown over her head, and it gleamed far down the avenue of
                        pollarded chestnuts long after her figure, and those of her cavaliers, had
                        been swallowed up in the shadow of the thick trees. Then a cheery lad in
                        evening dress, a typical British subaltern, with the shortest of red hair
                        and honestest of sunburnt faces, went by. He escorted a trim American
                        maiden, to whom, in the last week, he had very obviously and completely lost
                        his heart. The two were laughing, evidently the joke was a first-rate one.
                        Almost immediately after, Perry père fled
                        across the scene, a lopsided stripe of hurrying blackness.
                    I let him get to a safe distance, then I went out and followed the path along
                        the left of the big hotel, under the long row of dining-room windows. All
                        the chandeliers were lighted within, and a
                        confused noise of talk and of feasting reached me. Who paid, I wondered—not
                        those who ate and drank, not the hotel proprietor, very certainly, nor yet
                        Mr. Perry. Leversedge, I supposed; that was his rôle.—Yes, Percy Gerrard's dirty fingers had decidedly spoilt
                        the evening for me! Leversedge, I feared, was doomed to pay for most things,
                        whoever happened to consume them.
                    And just as I had reached this somewhat disheartening conclusion, at the turn
                        of the terrace, in the full glare of the great cluster of electric lights
                        fixed flowerlike against the corner of the huge building, I came upon
                        Leversedge himself.
                    He lounged, with his hands in his pockets, staring up at the soft
                        night-moths, that fluttered around the bulbs of hard white light. I felt
                        troubled, I therefore became weakly vapid—in speech.
                    “You here? The gay and giddy dance is over then,” I said.
                    Leversedge's eyes met mine in vague inquiry for an instant.
                    “Oh! we've had some splendid turns,” he said. “Charlotte dances
                        divinely.”
                    “Does she not do all things divinely?”
                    “Pretty nearly,” he answered, smiling.
                    All went well still, then; my soul received
                        comfort, my faith in my own gospel revived. Yea, these lovers should yet
                        find complete salvation and—sustaining thought—through me.
                    Leversedge was staring at the upward flying night-moths again.
                    “Poor, silly fools,” he said slowly, “they're a little too much of a
                        parable.”
                    But my cheerfulness had returned.
                    “My dear fellow,” I replied, “they ‘needs must love the highest when they see
                        it,’ like the rest of us. But the highest is perfectly safe in this case,
                        and will not do them any injury. They can't singe themselves. The globes are
                        sealed.”
                    Leversedge's mildly distracted brow gathered into a frown for a moment, and
                        he raised his shoulders the least bit in the world.
                    “No, they can't singe themselves,” he said, “but they can bash their silly
                        heads in, which will answer much the same purpose.” Then he added, quickly
                        and courteously—“I beg your pardon, Hammond; I am an ass, and like an ass I
                        am a little bit out of temper.”
                    Just then, somewhere down in the direction of the little harbour, a dog
                        yelped. I saw Leversedge start.
                    “What's that?” he said, under his breath.
                    His face straightened. He listened. I listened too, somehow. It was
                        exceedingly stupid of me, for I ought to have talked; but I could not
                            help myself. I had to listen. The
                        sounds of revelry from the dining-room had grown faint; a breath of air had
                        stirred the surface of the bank of shrubs on our right. And again, down by
                        the harbour, a dog, evidently a small dog, yelped and whimpered.
                    “Let us come round to the front of the house,” Leversedge said, rather
                        hurriedly. “That set of Lancers must be over by now, I should think, and she
                        told me to meet her at the steps.”
                    As we went along the terrace, he added—
                    “That greasy animal, Gerrard, has turned up again to-night. He insisted upon
                        Charlotte's sitting out this square dance with him, which bored her, and
                        annoyed me rather. Of course I know, I'm rather out of it, Hammond, from
                        having been away so long; but if that fellow's not a bad lot, I never saw
                        any man that was.”
                    “Briefly, he is a beast!” I exclaimed.
                    Leversedge chuckled audibly.
                    “Thanks, I feel better,” he said. “Charlotte doesn't fancy him either, I
                        know; but she's seen a good deal of him at Mrs. Mertyns', and she can't be
                        uncivil, you see. As to this dance, she couldn't civilly get out of it.”
                    As we moved forward the air became positively heavy with the rich, aromatic
                        scent of the magnolia blossoms, while the sound of the band came upon us
                        with a sudden gush, in the light tuneful music of La
                        Cigale.
                    
                    “We shall get away from all these people tomorrow,” Leversedge said. “Till
                        then I strive to possess my soul in patience.”
                    He smiled very charmingly, looked half proudly, half shyly at me.
                    “I'm awfully grateful to you, Hammond,” he said. “But for you I might not
                        have dared go on. Thanks to you, the supreme good is near, is very
                        near.”
                    Just then we reached the foot of the marble steps, crossed by broad spaces of
                        golden brightness from the windows of the salon—against which last the band, fiddling and blowing under
                        the vine-embowered verandah, showed as a company of grotesque silhouettes.
                        Halfway down the flight stood the Deputy Surgeon-General discoursing
                        earnestly to Perry père et mère.
                    “Oh! hang it, they've not done yet,” Leversedge said.
                    At the sound of his voice Mr. Perry turned, and perceiving us, ran playfully
                        down to join us.
                    “Ah, ha!” he cried; “I see, I see. Damon and Pythias, David and Jonathan—as
                        usual, inseparable companions— 
                            Divorced for a brief space
                            And then together flowing, impelled by friendship,
                            As severed drops upon the petals of the dewy rose.
                         Upon my word, I begin to suspect Charlotte has a rival in that naughty
                        boy's affections, eh, Mr. 
                            Ham-
                            Hammond
                         mond? Ladies have been known
                        before now to grow jealous of their husband's friends. You must be nice to
                        Charlotte, very, very nice to Charlotte, or who can tell—eh?”
                    “It's a beautiful night,” Leversedge remarked, with a certain irritation in
                        his tone; “all the same, I don't care to stand still here. Shall we take a
                        turn, Hammond, and come back?”
                    “By all means,” I said.
                    Was Leversedge only restless, anxious to shake off Perry père, or was he cold? Really I was becoming
                        very sentimental over Leversedge. I would sacrifice myself to an almost
                        unlimited extent in the way of pedestrianism to prevent his feeling
                        cold.—But if his intention was to shake off his father-in-law, that end was
                        not to be attained by such simple methods.
                    “Yes, by all means,” echoed Mr. Perry; “I am with you.”
                    And he trotted gaily beside us.
                    “A beautiful night, as you observe, Constantine, truly a beautiful night.
                        Really, I may say, without exaggeration, a sublime night. I have just been
                        calling my wife's and our good friend, the doctor's, attention to the
                        expanse of the starry heavens as presented to us this evening— 
                            Worlds upon worlds displayed
                            To awe the human eye,
                            In majesty arrayed,
                            Go slowly rolling by.”
                        
                    
                    Here Mr. Perry became extremely noble.
                    “If my youth had not been necessarily devoted to pursuits of a practical
                        character, and if the virtue of patriotism had not become the master passion
                        of my maturer years, I should certainly have been an astronomer. Most
                        elevating branch of science, Mr. Hammond, I am sure,—most elevating. The
                        silent night, the lonely observatory, the burnished brass tube turned in
                        humble inquiry upon unnumbered universes! Ah yes, ‘the undevout astronomer
                        is mad,’—must be, you know, 'tis perfectly obvious. Yet, as I often remind
                        myself, the busy bee has its place in nature, its little duty to fulfil, as
                        well as the soaring eagle. And I trust I do not neglect my own honey cells,
                        as we may say, do not neglect them. I am proud to think our local branch of
                        the Primrose League, for instance, owes much to my efforts and to those of
                        Mamma—for we must never forget the gentle hand of women, which rocking the
                        cradle still rules the world—ah ha! rules us, and, therefore, of necessity,
                        the world.”
                    We had walked the length of the terrace. Before us lay the garden, blotted by
                        trees and masses of shrubbery, spreading away to a flat stretch of vineyards
                        intersected by the pale gleam of a long straight road. Then the scattered
                        lights of the little town—points of silver clustered along the edge of a
                        blue-purple abyss of lake and mountain.
                    
                    Mr. Perry drew himself up. He was quite detestably full-blown just then. He
                        carried his head on one side, and shook his finger waggishly at the
                        constellations—which, again, were points of silver clustered in that other
                        blue-purple abyss of the night sky.
                    “Yes, yes,” he cried, “you heavenly bodies must indeed pursue your immemorial
                        way without me! Hearth and home, wife and child, man and brother, Church and
                        State, our revered Queen, our glorious Constitution,—these, after all, Mr.
                        Hammond, twine themselves more closely about the heart-strings of the true
                        Briton than even the most august of scientific studies. he affections must
                        be satisfied, must be so, 'tis absolutely necessary. Constantine is in a
                        position to bear witness to that truth just now; eh, Constantine?— 
                            He left his books
                            For ladies' looks.
                         Account-books, in the case of Constantine. Ledgers, yes, ledgers—and
                        very well-kept ones, too, as I can testify. Most creditable entries in those
                        ledgers.—Dear me, what's this—what's this? Amid all our charming
                        conversation and light musical gaiety the plaint of some inferior animal in
                        pain!”
                    The dog was yelping again. The sound had shifted, was nearer. It seemed to
                        come from the chestnut avenue, into the dark shadow of which the scarlet-bloused Russian and her companions
                        had disappeared.
                    Leversedge touched me on the shoulder, speaking quickly.
                    “Let's turn, Hammond. That dance must be over by now, and I don't want to
                        keep her waiting.”
                    “Right, right!” cried Mr. Perry genially. “I approve the sentiment. The Fair
                        may sometimes delay us, but let us never delay the Fair. For 'tis the little
                        foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the grapes. And how often the surface of
                        domestic happiness is ruffled, and the peace of its depths endangered, I'm
                        sure I may say positively endangered, by the omission of small courtesies— 
                            Those trifling, trivial tributes of our love,
                            Which still the heart's complete devotion prove.
                         These are too often ignored by us members of the sterner sex; yet they
                        are foundational, I protest foundational, as the basis of sweet agreement in
                        the matrimonial state.”
                    At the foot of the steps stood Mrs. Perry.
                    “Dear me!” she said as we approached, “I'm sure it's a very shocking thing we
                        should be benefiting so by those poor black people's bad habits, and I
                        really don't see how we do,—and I'm sure it ought all to be put a stop to at
                        once by the Queen, or the Parliament, or anybody in a position to do it.—Oh,
                        well, here you all are; the doctor here's
                        been explaining to me all about those poor Indians and the opium, and it
                        does seem all very dreadful. And there's been a dog howling so; I've just
                        been asking him to go and see what is the matter with it. It always upsets
                        me,—doesn't it you, Mr. Hammond?—to hear anything crying about like that
                        when you don't know what's wrong with it.”
                    The set of Lancers were clearly over, for the band was well away with a valse
                        again. The Carissima, in her trailing peach-bloom skirts, stood just outside
                        the central window of the ballroom. Gerrard's squat figure was behind her.
                        He was talking to her, insisting upon something. The girl moved forward
                        impatiently, as though wishing to escape from him. But he followed her to
                        the head of the steps. He was very close to her, still speaking, still
                        insisting. I saw him, to emphasise his words—whatever they might be—touch
                        her arm with his hand.
                    Leversedge saw it too. His mouth opened a little, and a dangerous light came
                        into his eyes.
                    “Damn your impudence! I should like to settle with you once and for all,” he
                        said under his breath.
                    “Yes, to be sure, there it is howling again,” Mrs. Perry chimed in. “But,
                        dear me, I don't want the poor thing done away with altogether, if that's
                        what you mean, Constantine. I only want it turned out of the garden, you
                        know, or taken back where it belongs.”
                    
                    Charlotte came swiftly down the marble steps. She pressed her left hand
                        against the side of her charming head; and the up-draught, as she moved,
                        taking the lace of her open sleeve blew it back, showing her arm almost to
                        the shoulder. The great diamonds, which Leversedge had brought her,
                        glittered upon her third finger and upraised wrist. And the band played
                        softly, I remember, a die-away passage of the valse,—it was one arranged
                        from that pretty, silly song of Caminada's, “Ashes of love are as ashes of
                        roses,”—and, down by the lake shore, once more a dog whimpered and
                        yelped.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI
                    “APRÈS le bal,” cried Mr. Perry,
                        addressing his daughter in rallying tones,—“après le
                            bal! Surely you young people stand in need of a little light
                        refreshment? A plan, a plan, I have a charming plan—eh, Mamma? Let's offer
                        our friends here an al fresco
                        entertainment, before we part at the close of this auspicious day, to meet
                        again to-morrow morning. Ah yes, meet at the church door at half-past ten
                        o'clock. I look for many friendly faces to be gathered at the church door,
                        I'm sure, quite a number of friendly faces.—But now to supper.”
                    In speaking, Mr. Perry waved us towards a table, by one of the large
                        magnolias, at the farther side of the terrace. The rough zinc top of the
                        table, I remember, caught the light, as did the white balustrade parallel to
                        which it stood, over which pink climbing roses, set in the flower-border
                        below, had thrown long trails of leaf and blossom. Beyond lay a quarter of
                        an acre of lawn sloping away into a darkness of trees, bordering the lake
                        shore.
                    
                    The Carissima passed us without speaking. She went quickly across the wide
                        gravel terrace, and dropped into a chair at the head of the table. It
                        appeared to me the young lady's whole manner and bearing was curiously
                        concentrated; it held no hint of hesitancy now, or of deprecating mildness.
                        She swept by, indeed, with a certain violence; and, as I followed with Mrs.
                        Perry, the effect of her struck me as really impressive—her head and bare
                        throat, her slim figure to the waist, in its pale draperies, standing out in
                        profile, clean cut, from the multitudinous background of glossy magnolia
                        leaves. And, thereupon, a suspicion overtook me, that, even now, for good or
                        evil, I had not come to the end of Charlotte née Perry. I took my place at the little table in a spirit of
                        expectation; a rather weariful sense upon me—really this day was an
                        unconscionably long one!—that, in respect of drama, there might even now be
                        a considerable amount ahead.
                    As for the rest of the party—Mr. Perry had skirmished off in search of
                        supper; Percy Gerrard still lingered, wrapped in august abstraction, under
                        the verandah; while Leversedge, passing round, perched himself on the
                        balustrade near his bride—his back towards the dimness of the garden, his
                        face towards the illuminated façade of the
                        great hotel. He bent down and spoke in a low voice to the girl.
                    
                    Mrs. Perry sat next me, and proceeded to engage my attention by artless
                        discourse. She was gorgeously attired this evening in a rich silk gown of
                        sanguine hue. Moreover, I distinctly recall her cap. It was of the usual
                        respectable upper-housemaid order, so much affected by elderly ladies of our
                        modest nation; but, as sign of full dress, curious little golden acorns
                        depended from the lower lace frill of it, as wind-bells from the roofs of a
                        pagoda. They waggled as she moved her head, and the affect was amusing,
                        somehow.
                    “I'm sure this is all very pleasant,” she said, looking round with evident
                        satisfaction. “And no doubt it's very right and proper of Dr. Moorcock to be
                        so busy about the bad habits of those poor blacks. But hearing him talk
                        seems to make you very anxious, you know. Of course I was always brought up
                        to believe those in authority—governors and generals and Members of
                        Parliament, and all those sort of gentlemen, did know best, so that one
                        wasn't called upon to trouble. And then, of course, when somebody like Dr.
                        Moorcock comes and explains to you they're always making dreadful mistakes,
                        why, you can't help being very upset and uneasy, you know—you really don't
                        feel as if anything was safe anywhere.”
                    “My dear child,” I heard Leversedge saying,
                        very gently, “if you'd only tell me what's gone wrong—half an hour ago
                        everything seemed as right as—”
                    “And then it's so beautiful sitting out of doors like this,” Mrs. Perry
                        continued, folding her hands contentedly over the centre of her person. “Of
                        course that was all very different, quite in a small private sort of way,
                        you know; but still it does remind me of the first year Mr. Perry and I were
                        married. We had a house at Brixton—semi-detached, and a nice bow-window to
                        the sitting-room,—I know Aunt Trumbull gave me red rep curtains for it and
                        they never would quite meet, there was a mistake about half a breadth,
                        somewhere—it was a disappointment, but I tried never to let them be drawn
                        when she came in, for fear it should mortify her,—well, and there was a
                        garden at the back. It had walls all round, and, of course, it wasn't very
                        much; but there was a black-plum tree in one corner, and when Joseph used to
                        come back from the office early, we would take our chairs out there and
                        sit.”
                    Then Leversedge's voice reached me again.
                    “Oh,” he was saying, “if you would like the plans altered any way, there's
                        nothing easier.”
                    He plucked off the head of a rose absently, and pulled the petals apart.
                    “The world's before us where to choose, after all, you see. We'll go where
                        you like, and stay where you like.
                        Whatever you like, I like—down to the ground, I like it.”
                    “It was very close that summer,” Mrs. Perry went on; “and—perhaps it's not
                        quite a thing to mention before a gentleman, but, you see, you do seem to be
                        such an old friend now, Mr. Hammond—I felt the heat very much just then, not
                        being quite strong—”
                    What the girl had answered him I do not know, but I saw Leversedge turn away
                        rather hastily. Then something must have arrested his attention, for he
                        paused, leaning sideways over the balustrade, one arm outstretched towards
                        the trailing roses, looking out over the great lawn. He was very still for a
                        moment; and a dog howled again, down in the direction of the harbour.
                    “Poor thing, the doctor hasn't caught it, then,” Mrs. Perry put in
                        parenthetically.
                    Leversedge pulled off another rose with rather laboured indifference, and,
                        facing round, threw back his head with a jerk. The content had died out of
                        his face. His brow was distracted, and the hunted look had come once again
                        into his eyes. He bent very tenderly over Charlotte.
                    “Whatever you please and wherever you please, my sweet,” he said softly,—“if
                        only you will be pleased. Surely you know, you know, I just live for
                        that?”
                    “You see, it was just a few months before dear Lottie's birth,” continued my
                        excellent 
                            com-
                            companion
                         panion. “We weren't very well
                        off at that time, Mr. Hammond, and I made all my own baby-linen. It's very
                        pretty work baby-linen, I always have thought that. And I used to sew as
                        long as it was light, and then sometimes Mr. Perry would play to me. I am
                        afraid the people next door objected rather, which seemed to me very
                        illiberal, for I am sure I always found it sweetly pretty—Joseph used to
                        practise quite a number of nice tunes, at that time, upon the flute.”
                    Meanwhile Leversedge went on speaking, pleading, as it appeared to me; but he
                        spoke very low, I did not hear what he said.
                    “You know, Mr. Perry doesn't quite care to hear me refer to that time; he
                        gets rather excited when I do, and says it's not fair upon Charlotte to
                        recall our early married life. And perhaps it isn't. Of course, it all was
                        very obscure. But I never knew how obscure it was then; and, you see, I was
                        very happy somehow—”
                    Mrs. Perry sighed.
                    “I know it's all much better now, and that Charlotte and Mr. Perry move in
                        society much more suitable to them both; but a woman's thoughts will go back
                        to the time she was very happy, even if she sees afterwards that it was all
                        a mistake and that she oughtn't to have been so, you know, Mr. Hammond.”
                    Here the Carissima made a sudden movement—
                        threw up her hands, clasped them before her face. She stayed so a minute,
                        showing like a cameo against the screen of foliage.
                    “Wait,—pray, pray, wait,” she said. “Presently, when my parents are gone—not
                        now—I can't explain before them. Indeed, I hardly know my own thought yet.
                        Wait—I implore you, wait.”
                    “The last thing I wish is to distress you, God knows,” Leversedge said slowly
                        and sadly.
                    Hearing which, the remnants of my lately recovered cheerfulness began to
                        vanish, smokelike, in deepening disquiet. For I recognised that I had
                        gloried without sufficient cause, that this conversion remained distinctly
                        incomplete.
                    Leversedge stared away across the lawn again, and as I watched him his figure
                        gradually stiffened and straightened. He, too, was watching anxiously,
                        unwillingly, yet with a sort of fascination something—something which I did
                        not see. I suppose I really was very tired, for his attitude affected me
                        strangely. The feeling returned upon me which had oppressed me earlier in
                        the evening, as I worked my way out of the crowded hall, namely, that there
                        was an abnormal, a malign element in my surroundings. It was absurd, of
                        course, yet increasingly the Spirit of Fear—fear of I know not quite
                        what—whether a perception of something supernatural, or merely a heightened
                        perception of the ever-present possibility of tragedy in mortal existence,
                        seemed to haunt the whispering trees and
                        dusky garden, to diffuse itself through the blue-purple abyss of the lake
                        and mountains, and the clear, impassive, starlit night.
                    Just then arrived to us Mr. Perry, followed by a waiter carrying a tray,
                        shoulder high. If there was any abnormal influence abroad, it had not
                        affected Perry père as yet, save in the
                        way of an astonishing and altogether disproportionate hilarity.
                    “Ah ha!” he cried, “I bring you varied cates— 
                            Each to his taste, enough alike for all.
                         Coffee and ices for the slighter appetites; champagne for the more
                        solid, accompanied by a lobster mayonnaise. Mamma was ever partial to a
                        salad composed of that somewhat deleterious crustacean —weren't you,
                            Mamma?—Ici, put the things on the
                        table, don't you see, comme ça, garçon. Et
                            maintenant ôtez le plateau, and you can go, allez,—vous comprenez.”
                    This to the waiter.
                    Whether attracted by the sight of food, or impelled by some more subtle form
                        of desire, I know not, but here Percy Gerrard descended the steps and joined
                        us. He drew up at the corner of the table, between Charlotte and myself; and
                        the girl looked up at him with a strange expression, half dependence, half
                        disgust—as it seemed to me. As once before, I suspected collusion between
                            these two persons, and I didn't in the
                        least like it. At all events, it was a satisfaction to note that, along with
                        dependence, Charlotte Perry's extremely pretty and mobile face did express
                        disgust.
                    “Lobster?—no, thank you. Champagne?—yes,” he said, in response to an
                        invitation on the part of Mr. Perry,—“that is, if it is dry; I take for
                        granted it's dry.”
                    Gerrard's voice was not under complete control; it came hard and sudden. He
                        emptied his glass, and then, setting it down, rested his hand on the table,
                        bending forward over the girl.
                    “Have you remarked the glow-worms to-night?” he asked her. “Out there, upon
                        the grass, they are really very wonderful.”
                    He raised his hand and pointed down over the lawn. And that hand must have
                        been disagreeably damp; for it left, dark on the grey zinc table-top, a
                        distinct impression of a flat palm, four squat fingers and a thumb to
                        match.
                    “Fairylike?—yes, I'm sure, positively fairylike,” broke in Perry père enthusiastically. “Titania and her frisky
                        train are all abroad this evening. I have called my wife's attention to
                        their merry manœuvres already—haven't I, Mamma?”
                    Leversedge, at the mention of the glow-worms, glanced sharply at the speaker.
                        Then he seemed to gather himself together, with a certain determination, and
                        sat, his head bent, his back to the garden
                        and his face to the light, laying hold, very hard—so I fancied—of the edge
                        of the stone balustrade on either side of him.
                    Gerrard went on speaking, his voice cracking up and down queerly.
                    “You see them? There must be some peculiar atmospheric conditions to account
                        for the extreme brilliancy of those delicate jewels.”
                    He paused, apparently trying to steady his unruly voice. The dance was over;
                        the bandsmen were putting up their instruments. The concierge turned out the clusters of electric lights one by
                        one, leaving but a gas-jet here and there, in compliment to the few guests
                        who still loitered in the grounds. The lady of the red silk blouse passed us
                        with her attendants, as usual deep in excited talk. The fresh-faced
                        subaltern and his trim partner lingered, bidding each other a protracted
                        farewell at the foot of the steps.
                    “Ah! how extraordinary!” cried Gerrard suddenly. “Look—look at those in the
                        centre of the lawn, two discs of lambent living green. Singular! They move
                        together rapidly, and towards us.”
                    The Carissima pushed her chair violently back making the stiff leaves of the
                        magnolia shatter together behind her.
                    “No, no, not that way!” she cried,—“not that way! I dare not. It is too
                        wicked. I cannot.”
                    Leversedge had taken one glance over his
                        shoulder into the dimness. Then he wrenched himself round, wrenched himself
                        on to his feet. And once again I could have sworn his hair bristled, while
                        his lips stood away from his teeth.
                    “You lie,” he said, “and you know it. You lie,—so help me God.”
                    A silence followed; even Perry père, for
                        once, amazed out of all articulate expression. And a dog yelped and howled,
                        quite near us this time, on the left. While one of the bandsmen, a
                        tow-headed young German, mocked it, howling an echo; whereupon all his
                        companions laughed rather boisterously, as they moved away into the
                        darkness, round the corner of the huge house.
                    When Gerrard answered, his voice rose into a positive scream.
                    “You are insolent, Mr. Leversedge, and your language is gross; but let that
                        pass. I appeal to Miss Perry—to your wife. Ask her what she saw just
                        now.”
                    The girl stood up between the two men—Leversedge on her right, Gerrard on her
                        left. But she looked at neither of them. She looked full at me—for a most
                        disintegrating, delectable, detestable minute. Her expression was of supreme
                        appeal. Her lips gathered, quivered, with that delicious sketch of a kiss. I
                        knew—don't write me down an unpardonably fatuous ass—I knew she was mine, to
                        have if I would. I had only to speak five
                        words to claim her, and she would come, regardless of all obstacles,
                        joyfully, nay, triumphantly. And, dear me, was she not seductive just then,
                        radiant with an amazing mingling of demand and of innocence? She asked me
                        silently, yet with dominating force, she knew not what—for Charlotte Perry's
                        passion was (pray, let us never forget that), as is the passion of so many
                        modern young women, rightly considered, a matter of the head, of the
                        imagination only, and not really one bit of the heart. And I answered her,
                        whether as a man of honour, whether merely as a selfish craven, I shall
                        never know. To the end of my foolish days, here on this foolish earth, the
                        problem will haunt me, will remain unsolved by me. Did I behave as a perfect
                        gentleman, or merely as a very thorough-paced poltroon? I cannot tell.
                        Anyhow, silently, I did answer. Whereupon the girl threw herself down in her
                        chair, and flung her arms out across the table, scattering the ice-plates
                        and coffee-cups to right and left, making a swamp of Perry père's poor little supper.
                    “Oh dear!” moaned Mrs. Perry,—“oh dear! whatever is the matter? Everything
                        seems to have turned off so very dreadful all of a sudden. And,I'm sure I
                        can't tell what it's all about—can you, Mr. Hammond?”
                    “About death and damnation!” I exclaimed under my breath.
                    
                    Leversedge bent forward across the corner of the table.
                    “Charlotte,” he said hoarsely, yet authoritatively, “tell me, did you see
                        anything? What did you see?”
                    There was a breathless pause; and a dog whimpered close to us, quite close,
                        down among the rose bushes, just below the balustrade. Then the Carissima
                        raised her head, and her face was sharp, astute, terrible.
                    “Yes,” she said, “I did see something.”
                    She looked at Gerrard, she looked at me again, she turned straight to
                        Leversedge.
                    “I did see something. I saw it.”
                    Percy Gerrard slapped his hands together and moved back a couple of steps
                        from the table, making an ugly noise in his throat, between a cough and a
                        grunt; while good Mrs. Perry broke into an hysterical sobbing.
                    “Oh dear me! I don't understand,—won't anybody tell me?—I don't understand,”
                        she said.
                    And Leversedge remained quite still, his back to the wide dusky garden; his
                        face and figure seeming to grow thinner, more corpse-like, as the concierge, passing the length of the terrace,
                        extinguished another and yet another of the lights. When at last he spoke,
                        he was fine, he was admirable—he had, indeed, risen to something of majesty.
                        For he was master of himself, perfectly
                        self-restrained, and calm—with the bitter self-restraint, the cruel calm, of
                        one whose feet are set in the Valley of Tribulation, journeying through
                        which a man's spirit is too deeply laden for him to strive or cry, but who
                        moves forward, with the stoicism which, in strong and simple natures, utter
                        desolation is—thank heaven—almost sure to give.
                    “This is not the end,” he said,—“not quite the end,—and with the end the rest
                        of you have nothing to do. Go, you cur,” he added, addressing Gerrard. “Just
                        how much I owe you I don't yet know, but be very sure I'll do my best to pay
                        you all I do owe.”
                    He came round the table and stood by Mrs. Perry's chair.
                    “Go away too, my dear good woman,” he said very gently. “You have always been
                        very kind to me; but I am beyond the point now where kindness like yours is
                        of much avail.”
                    “I am at a loss,” broke in Perry père
                        suddenly; “I protest, I am altogether at a loss—I am at sea, positively at
                        sea. The wordy scene, the untasted refreshments—really, Constantine—”
                    “There, there, there,” answered Leversedge. “You shall know the result all in
                        good time, and that must be enough for you.”
                    “But my daughter,” protested Mr. Perry.
                    Charlotte had sat rigid, her arms still out- stretched upon the table, her face hard and set. Now she turned, almost
                        contemptuously, upon her father.
                    “Go, Papa,” she said. “I do not want you; you can't help me, and you may make
                        me ridiculous. I can play my own game. And,” she added,—“and—you needn't be
                        afraid. There will be a witness—Mr. Hammond shall stay.”
                    Percy Gerrard, whose courage was never of the militant order, had fled
                        hurriedly up the marble stairway into the hotel. And now Perry père et mère followed him quite meekly—she
                        weeping in a broken-spirited manner piteous to hear.
                    “I don't understand,” she said, “and I was just growing so fond of
                        Constantine, too. He seemed to recall our dear little boy to me so—though as
                        he died quite an infant and Constantine's a grown man, I'm sure I don't know
                        why.”
                    And for once in his life Mr. Perry was too cowed to scold her; he merely gave
                        her his arm, and led her humbly away.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI
                    SO we three were left alone. To form one of that trinity was not an
                        honour, very certainly, which I coveted. But there was no way to avoid it;
                        so, inwardly protesting, and feeling, I confess, ignominiously nervous, I
                        remained.
                    Leversedge came on along the side of the table, and dropped into the chair
                        which I, in the moment of the catastrophe, had vacated. The girl did not
                        look at him; she continued in the same rigid attitude, her arms still flung
                        out across the table amid the wreck of the supper; her fingers doubling and
                        undoubling convulsively—the only sign she gave of her agitation. And
                        Leversedge laid his hand on her bare arm just below the elbow. It was rather
                        ghastly to think how her muscles working like that, right under his fingers,
                        must have affected him. For a little space he sat silent, trying to force
                        back a rising tide of very vital emotion—while, I remember, the coffee from
                        an overturned cup dripped slowly, slowly from the farther edge of the table
                        on to the gravel below. At last he said—
                    
                    “My sweet, this is bad—very bad. This is the one thing I have implored
                        mightn't happen; that I have prayed against—by day when I was free, by night
                        when I was cursed. I have fought against the terror of its happening as one
                        fights for life itself. I could not think it could be allowed to be—I
                        trusted God—whatever God is—to be more just than that.”
                    His voice broke. Again he was silent, trying to recover himself.
                    “As for that brute Gerrard,” he went on presently, “I believe, as I told him,
                        that he lied. But you—you—you,” cried Leversedge,—“you couldn't lie.”
                    He bent his head and kissed the hollow of the girl's arm again and again.
                    All this was indescribably painful; and I most genuinely detest what is
                        painful—at close quarters. I wanted to go away, I wanted desperately to go
                        away. But the Carissima raised her eyes to mine. Her pretty face was still
                        set and fierce; but, as far as I could judge in the dim light, it was fierce
                        with alarm now, rather than with resolve. Her eyes entreated me, commanded
                        me not to desert her. I obeyed.
                    “See,” Leversedge said, “I have no words in which to tell you of my shame, of
                        my self-loathing in having brought this horror on you. I have been
                        hideously, damnably selfish in tying up
                        your life to mine, with the possibility of that happening which has
                        happened. But—but—oh! I am a scoundrel to have let it come to this pass—you
                        see, we've gone too far to turn back—you see, we belong to each other
                        now.”
                    Leversedge paused, a perfect agony of prayer, of love in his expression. It
                        became almost unbearable. If she would only give some sign! But she
                        continued absolutely impassive, save for the doubling and undoubling of her
                        fingers as they rested on the table.
                    “You see—it's a vile thing to remind you of like this—but we are married. We
                        can't cancel that except by death. And don't, don't want me to die,” he
                        cried,—“not yet, not just yet. I have cared so long, dreamed so long, waited
                        so long for this—for our marriage—for what to-morrow brings. Oh! my sweet,
                        my sweet, try to put it out of your mind, try to forget what you saw. You
                        may never see it again, it may never come back. Only be merciful, and try,
                        just try. Give me a week, a month, just a little while, in which to be
                        happy. And the torment will cease, the cloud will pass. I know it will. It
                        must. I will compel it to—it must. And, listen—I will love you as never yet
                        woman was loved; for you will have done for me more than any woman ever yet
                        did for any man.”
                    Leversedge's head sank down upon his hand on the girl's arm, and I saw that his whole frame was shaken with great
                        sobs.
                    “Forgive me,” he said, just audibly. “Forgive me,—try to forget.”
                    Then for a minute, I confess, I lost my head and called out loud to her—
                    “Speak to him! Say something, anything. God in heaven! what are you made of?
                        Speak to him, I say.”
                    The girl straightened herself up, with a long shuddering sigh—a ghostly image
                        of desperation against the dark multitudinous background of magnolia
                        leaves.
                    “You—you of all people in the world, Antony Hammond!” she said very
                        bitterly.
                    And Leversedge repeated his prayer, just audibly again.
                    “Forgive me—and for a little while, try, only try.”
                    “I have tried,” she answered at last.
                    “You have been to me as an angel.”
                    “I have tried,” she repeated, addressing me, not Leversedge. “You can bear
                        witness to that—who better?”
                    She dragged her arm away from under his hand.
                    “And I have failed, failed miserably and contemptibly. Just in the very
                        moment of success I break down—”
                    She rose to her feet, speaking violently, 
                            passion-
                            passionately
                         ately, pelting me with words, as
                        she might have with stones.
                    “No, I don't care what I admit. I have been mad to convince you, to prove to
                        you that I was what I desire to be and am not. I thought I was sufficiently
                        strong to carry it through long enough, at all events, to disprove your
                        suspicions, to master you. I didn't care what came later. I should have won
                        that which I wanted. But I am not sufficiently strong. You triumph, after
                        all. You were right in your estimate of me. I am cheap, flimsy, insincere—an
                        actress. My learning is mere cram, my talents mere imitation. I am a
                        sham—colourless, characterless, a mere reflection of other people's
                        thoughts, fashions, affectations. Yes, you are right, you have been right
                        all along. I am a fraud. But I hoped against hope. I thought if I played at
                        being something else long enough, I might deceive even myself, and really
                        become that which I simulated. And, remember, I gave you the chance to help
                        me, not once, not twice. But you were relentless; you forced me back on
                        myself; you dragged aside the veil with which I tried to conceal my
                        nothingness. I gave you the chance to help, and you were too lazy, too
                        selfish, too fine, to trouble to take it. Then I turned to someone else. Ah!
                        I am grateful to you—in very truth we have all cause to be grateful to
                        you.”
                    Leversedge was standing up too. He looked
                        utterly amazed and bewildered. More than once he had tried to stay the
                        torrent of her speech, unsuccessfully; but, to my immense relief, I
                        perceived that he was far too much absorbed in his own side of the drama to
                        comprehend the purport of the girl's words. He supposed—poor dear
                        Leversedge—it was the terror of the diabolic dog which had thus unhinged her
                        mind; and he, of course, was responsible for that also!
                    “Charlotte, my poor child, my poor darling,” he implored, “don't go on like
                        this, pray don't. You'll break my heart. I don't know what to do for
                        you.”
                    He held out his arms to her, tried to take hold of her, to draw her to him;
                        but she backed away, violently, round the corner of the table. A trailing
                        spray of roses caught the folds of her dress and dragged them sideways.
                    “No,” she cried, “I will not come. It is useless to ask me. Don't you
                        understand, I break with you? Ah! how thick-witted you are! Don't you
                        understand, what you offer me isn't enough, since—since—you yourself go with
                        it?”
                    Leversedge stared at her, for a minute, across the table, and still the
                        coffee from the overturned cup dripped slowly, very slowly, upon the gravel.
                        Then languor and tenderness alike passed away from him. He drew himself up,
                        and it struck me what a big man—notwithstanding his spare make—Leversedge
                        was.
                    
                    “Isn't it a trifle late to think of that?” he asked her very quietly.
                    There was a silence, while a dog yelped and whimpered again, close to us,
                        down among the roses below the balustrade.
                    “I do not love you,” the girl said.
                    Leversedge looked at her and laughed harshly, and for an instant the devil of
                        desire leapt into his eyes.
                    “That is rather unfortunate,” he replied, “for I love you—very much.”
                    I turned away. Really they must settle the matter themselves. The presence of
                        a third person had ceased to be admissible. But the girl called to me
                        imperiously to remain.
                    “Stay,” she cried, “stay—you're a poor enough creature, Mr. Hammond, but you
                        shall stay. I demand that you do so. I refuse to be left alone here,
                        unprotected, with this madman.”
                    Leversedge staggered—then steadied himself, resting his hands on the
                        table.
                    “But—you—you saw it yourself,” he said, with a sort of indignation.
                    Then Charlotte née Perry, that unheroic
                        daughter of unheroic parents, played her last card. It was a very foul card,
                        unfortunately.
                    “I saw nothing, just now. Listen, attend to that which I tell you, I saw
                        nothing but what I should see this moment, if I turned my head—nothing but
                        the glow-worms in the grass.”
                    
                    “But—but—” Leversedge murmured wildly.
                    “It was a plan,” she went on, “a plot to rid myself of you—do you not
                        understand?—to get rid of you.”
                    She made a strange downward and outward movement of her hands, as though
                        stripping away some garment, some covering.
                    “Wake up,” she cried, “Constantine Leversedge; see things as they are,
                        clearly, at last, though too late; for I am utterly weary of this long
                        comedy. You have worshipped a delusion. Know me at last as I am. Mr. Hammond
                        will be delighted to draw out the points of the lesson. Learn of what I am
                        capable. I lied to you—do you hear me?—I lied.”
                    Then she slipped round the end of the table—while the rose spray, catching
                        her dress, rent the muslin and tore at the silk of it with a sort of
                        lingering shriek; and a small whitish dog, a mangy, half-starved, quivering
                        little wretch, his tail between his legs, and a dirty tag of rope round his
                        neck, crawled out from between the pillars of the balustrade, and ran,
                        limping and yapping, behind her, across the terrace, as she fled up the
                        marble steps into the vast hotel.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    SOME ten minutes later Leversedge got up from beside the little
                        table. He had made no outcry. He was quiet, desolatingly quiet, almost
                        apathetic; and he was shaking all over, shaking, so that instinctively I put
                        out my hand to support him.
                    “Thanks,” he said. “There's nothing that I know of to wait for now. Perhaps
                        we may as well go in, Hammond; don't you think so?”
                    But on the threshold of the glass door of the salon he paused, shaking too violently to go farther. The
                        ballroom was dark, silent, empty—only lights, as one saw through the open
                        doors, beyond in the hall.
                    “I think I must have got a bit of a chill,” Leversedge remarked. “I expect
                        there's a lot of damp at night off the lake, and if you've once had a touch
                        of fever it's likely to lay hold of you.”
                    Then we went on across the salon into the
                        hall, and up the great staircase, slowly, waiting now and then, because he
                        shook so badly, to 
                            Lever-
                            Leversedge's
                         sedge's room on the first floor.
                        I remember the impression made on me as I opened the door of it. The effect
                        within was striking; for there were candles everywhere,—on the chimneypiece,
                        the writing-table, the chest of drawers, by the bedside,—a positive blaze of
                        light, turning this bachelor bedchamber into something curiously suggestive
                        of a chapelle ardente.
                    I suppose Leversedge noticed my surprise.
                    “Candles? Oh yes,” he said; “I always tell them to light a good many like
                        that, now—it's pleasanter, you know, at night.”
                    He gazed round the room in a dazed, vacant kind of way. Upon the
                        writing-table stood a folding, leather photograph frame, somewhat worn and
                        travel-stained with much packing. It contained a series of pictures of
                        Charlotte Perry, covering quite a number of years, judging by the changing
                        fashion of her costume. The last photograph was of very recent date; the
                        girl's charming face set in the aureole of the wide-brimmed, rose-garlanded
                        hat which she had worn that morning. Leversedge's wandering glance lighted
                        on these pictures; and a terrible emotion gripped his very vitals.
                    “My love!” he cried out loud,—“my love!”
                    His apathy passed away, and in a moment he had turned and spoke to me
                        courteously, and with a certain stateliness.
                    
                    “You're extremely kind, Hammond,” he said, “and I believe you have always
                        done your very best for me. Most likely I shall make use of your kindness
                        again later; but just now, for the present, I should be glad to be alone. I
                        feel I am rather a poor companion, I have not much talk in me, and I have
                        two or three little matters to attend to. I'm awfully obliged to
                        you—thanks—goodnight.”
                    I leaned for a long while out of the window of my bedroom, downstairs, on the
                        ground floor, filled with a vast pity and discontent. The air was very
                        still, an impalpable gloom covered the garden, the stars were very large,
                        very many, very bright. The miserable little dog still yelped and howled.
                        The Spirit of Fear was still abroad; it agitated, it distressed me. I had
                        seen two people wrecked; had contributed, precisely how far I knew not,
                        myself, to their wrecking. And in so doing had I, too, seen that
                        Thing-too-Much, of which Leversedge had once spoken? Had I, too, been “to
                        the end of the world and looked over the wall,” got to the place from which
                        there is no way out? These were not agreeable reflections. The hopeless
                        diversity of human character, the hopeless complexity of human relations
                        staggered me. Is there absolutely no limit to our misunderstanding of each
                        other, to our torturing of each other, to our boring of each other? Is there absolutely no safety? Is
                        every connection, every friendship, every love, liable to reel away, thus,
                        into disaster?
                    And then, besides these abstract and general fears, very concrete and close
                        ones oppressed me. What would the issue of this business be between
                        Leversedge and the Carissima? What would to-morrow bring—what, even,
                        to-night? Suddenly I was overtaken by a certain very definite alarm for
                        Leversedge, which forced me to leave my room, and go forth, down long
                        passages, across the vacant hall, and up the wide staircase once more.
                        Strange vague noises and vague odours saluted me, the clinging quiet of the
                        great house wrapped me about. And a penetrating sense possessed me of the
                        common things, the pitiful things, the base things, the delicious things—the
                        unholy revelations, the mystic initiations—which must be taking place,
                        to-night, as every night, behind these ranges of closely closed doors. The
                        Spirit of Fear was abroad here too, with a suggestion of secrets which might
                        not lawfully be looked into. The crowd had broken up into units. Darkness
                        and silence shrouded all. Yet the tragedy, the comedy, the ecstasy, of human
                        life went forward just the same; all the more strongly and directly, indeed,
                        because now it was hidden and concentrated, because each individual had,
                        practically, the whole stage to himself.
                    
                    I waited outside Leversedge's room, but there was no sound within. The
                        candles were still burning brightly, for a line of vivid light showed
                        beneath the door. Perhaps, worn-out with emotion and fatigue, he slept. I
                        could but hope so. To wake him, if he slept, would be cruel; to intrude upon
                        him unasked, if he waked, would be impertinent. I realised that my journey
                        had been a piece of folly. I was an idiot to have come. Refreshingly
                        conscious of that fact, I turned about and went back.
                    Where were the proud pleasures now, of preacher, director, evangelist, which
                        had but so lately puffed up my silly soul? On my own lines I too had
                        failed—failed as completely as broken-hearted Leversedge on his, as the
                        heartless Carissima on hers. We had all played, and we had all lost. Destiny
                        had swept our stakes into her lap, as is Destiny's habit; and left us, each
                        in our several ways, penniless. We had each, in our several ways, asked the
                        impossible of the other, with this inevitable, this very gratifying result!
                        And I—I, at least, from my detached standpoint ought to have known better,
                        seen clearer. For, what the devil is the use of standing aside from the
                        battle of life, unless by so doing you keep a steady enough head and lively
                        enough perceptions, to see how the battle is going, and to be able to
                        foresee the result? My conceit of myself was wounded to the death.
                    
                    It is an humiliating confession to make, since I perceive it brings my
                        habitual light-mindedness into rather lurid prominence, but I don't think I
                        had ever felt actively and personally miserable, until now, as I shut the
                        great casements of my window together, and reflected that there was no help
                        to be given either to the sinned against or the sinning; that there was
                        positively nothing more to be done save to wait the event.
                    Ah! is it not a pity, after all, we have grown so wise, in these latter days,
                        that we regard religion merely as a subject of interesting speculation; that
                        we have ceased to have faith in the demigods, who were agreeably accessible,
                        comfortably near to us; and have retained only a barren, because only a
                        controversial, belief in the Great God who sits behind the Creeds? For the
                        adept, no doubt, He represents the final rest, the final beatitude; but, for
                        the rank and file of us, He is chillingly far away, too unthinkably great to
                        be of much immediate use in poor little twopenny-halfpenny human extremity.
                        I would so thankfully have said a prayer, for my unworthy and futile self;
                        for my poor dear friend Leversedge; even for Charlotte née Perry, that most unheroic daughter of a
                        voracious rat and excellent suburban clock-moon, in this her hour of
                        self-knowledge, conscious nakedness and nothingness. But how could I, in
                        reason, do so? Who was I that I should be heard? What my petitions, that they should obtain to
                        change the course of history? What would be, would be. My pitiful wishes
                        weighed as a feather against the push of Fate.
                    No doubt such meditations are healthful for the soul, rich with wholesome
                        discipline; but, ye powers! they are quite detestably unpleasant all the
                        same.
                    And so, realising the futility of myself and my endeavours, I declined upon
                        bathos. I went to bed. Still worse, I, being most abominably tired, went to
                        sleep.
                    I suppose I slept heavily, yet I remember the yapping and howling of a dog
                        mingling with my dreams, now taking on an almost human sound of appeal and
                        reproachful lamentation, now passing into a cry of mere animal distress. I
                        was roused at last by a very real and definite outcry under my window,
                        emphasised by a shower of little pebbles against the shutters.
                    The dawn had just warmed into sunrise. The lawns were drenched with dew. The
                        whole panorama of lake and mountain was softened, etherealised by a veil of
                        silver mist. And immediately below, on the terrace, stood the red-headed
                        subaltern, arrayed in the most surprising suit of pink-and-yellow-checked
                        pyjamas, a roll of bathing-towels under his arm and his honest face
                        blanched, for all its freckles and sunburn, by emotion.
                    
                    “Mr. Hammond,” he stammered apologetically, “I'm awfully sorry to disturb
                        you, but I can't very well help it. Something awful's happened, and people
                        ought to know. But I did not want to raise an alarm and frighten the ladies.
                        And you and he were friends, I thought I'd best let you know first.”
                    “Quite right,” I said. “And what has happened?”
                    The boy looked very sick. He also looked absurdly young.
                    “Why—Mr. Leversedge,” he stammered again. “I was going down to bathe, you
                        see—and I came upon him suddenly.”
                    He pointed over his shoulder.
                    “Just against the pier, in the water—dead.”
                    His eyes filled with tears.
                    “It's awfully foolish, but I never saw anyone dead before, and I felt as if I
                        didn't want it to be him. He was such a ripping good sort.”
                    By the time I reached the little harbour the sun had cleared the top of the
                        vineyard-covered hills behind the hotel. Long shafts of delicate light
                        pierced the silvery mist. The pale shadow of the great building lay
                        obliquely across the garden. The pale shadow of the trees, along the shore,
                        lay obliquely across the surface of the water of the harbour. With raised
                        wings and ruffled plumage the two swans sailed in, in stateliest fashion,
                            round the head of the grey pier;
                        while, along the top of the wide stone wall of it, dark against the vast
                        gleaming steel-coloured levels of the lake, limped the wretched little dog,
                        its tail between its legs, and a tag of dirty rope still dangling from its
                        scraggy neck.
                    The boy went on ahead. The concierge and
                        the boatman, whom, in passing, we had called from the cottage in the corner
                        under the pollarded plane trees, followed me. About a third of the distance
                        along the pier the boy stopped.
                    “Come here, Mr. Hammond,” he said in an awe-stricken voice. “Look, you can
                        see him.”
                    And there, beneath some eight feet of divinely clear water, lay Leversedge,
                        flat on his back. Fluffy green water-weed rising around him, swayed by the
                        force of some otherwise imperceptible current, blurred the outline of his
                        body. He was still in evening dress, and his shirt-front showed a wide
                        heart-shaped patch of white; across which, at the top of the water, swam a
                        shoal of very small fishes, all their heads one way—lambent green—as the
                        fatal glow-worms, or the eyes of the non-existent yet truly diabolic dog,
                        which had combined to cause the martyrdom of the man dead, there, among the
                        weed below—when they moved away towards the farther shore, and
                        blood-red—when they turned, altogether, rapidly, making a tiny ripple on the surface of the water, and
                        swam back towards the little pier.
                    The matter was to raise the body at once, before the hotel was awake, and
                        either curiosity or alarm were aroused.
                    Some Savoy sailors, off one of the lateen-sailed lake-boats, helped us. It
                        was a rather hideous business, such as I sincerely hope it may never fall to
                        my lot to take part in again. I spare you the details. Suffice it to say
                        that we carried that which had been Leversedge up through the sunny garden.
                        The waiters had neglected to clear away the remains of Mr. Perry's supper,
                        and a flight of sparrows and chaffinches rose, squeaking and chirruping, off
                        the table from among the wet ice-plates and remnants of lobster salad, as we
                        passed by. The spare young Russian woman, very much en déshabille, her magnificent hair all over her angular
                        shoulders, hung out of a fourth-floor window, crooning one of those
                        infinitely pathetic folk-songs which seem so full of the sadness of long
                        snow-bound winters and the hopeless monotony of the Steppe. Otherwise we
                        happily met no one, saw no one—save the yawning lift-boy—till we reached
                        Leversedge's room and laid him on his bed.
                    Some of the many candles were still burning. They flared low in the socket.
                        The window had been left partly open behind the wooden shutters, and the
                        draught had taken them, so that they had
                        guttered from the edge of the candlesticks into great shrouds. The air was
                        heavy—notwithstanding the partly open window—with an acrid smell of burnt
                        paper, burnt leather. As we opened the door I observed a whirl of tinder fly
                        up from the hearthstone, and settle back slowly, in black hovering flakes,
                        on the furniture and the white counterpane of the bed. The folding-screen
                        and all the photographs of the Carissima had disappeared.
                    On the writing-table a copy of Vanity Fair lay open at that
                        pathetic page of the last chapter of the book, wherein Major Dobbin—after
                        long waiting—at last has his desire, and leanness withal, as one fears, in
                        his soul. And upon the page was a half-sheet of notepaper, with a few lines
                        on it in Leversedge's rather laboured business hand.
                    “I HAVE thought it all out, and this is the only way to meet the
                        difficulty, so I take it. I do not blame her. She was pressed beyond
                        endurance, and she was badly advised. She is safe against the future,
                        moreover, so my main end is secured. Also, I am delivered, at last, and for
                        ever, from the power of the dog.”
                    It was signed, and in the left-hand corner was written carefully—
                    “To Antony Hammond, Esq.,” and the date.
                
                
                    
                    EPILOGUE
                    SUCH was the story Hammond told me that wet afternoon in the
                        smoking-room of a certain country-house.
                    “Take it,” he said; “and, exercising a sufficient amount of discretion to
                        prevent its being positively libellous, make what use of it you like. Add to
                        the sum of human despair—as is the amiable habit of all you writers of
                        fiction at the present time—by drawing out the underlying agony of it at
                        full length, by crossing all the t's very plainly, and dotting
                        all the i's. The fate of most men is tame enough. Actually they
                        grow and ripen and decay,—die even, with a good-tempered dulness quite
                        soothing to contemplate. Extreme wretchedness in an Anglo-Saxon community is
                        as rare as extreme rapture. But, since extremes make for drama, and drama
                        is—if you will pardon my stating the matter thus baldly—your means of
                        livelihood, you writers ignore this capital fact.”
                    Happy is the people that has no history! But, as I pointed out to Hammond in
                        self-defence, how shall one write the history of those that have none?
                    
                    “I know, I know,” he replied genially; “and you poor dear novelists, like the
                        rest of us, must contrive to live somehow, I suppose. Only, I protest it is
                        just this which, in one's puritanic moments, when—to one's own immense
                        discomfort—the conscience of earlier and mere morally-strenuous generations
                        awakens in one,—it is just this which renders Art so radically suspect. For,
                        there is no denying, Art does fix the mind, unwholesomely, unscientifically,
                        upon extremes, upon all that which lies outside ordinary experience. It runs
                        alternately to the Golden Houses of the Gods and the Newgate Calendar, to
                        the lives of the saints and the chronique
                            scandaleuse for its subject-matter; and with none of these
                        things, when you come soberly to think of it, have we, most of us, anything
                        more than a bowing acquaintance. It accentuates every side of the great
                        human problem almost to the verge of lunacy. It persistently exalts the
                        abnormal as against the normal, the individual as against the race, the
                        variation as against the type. At times, I own, it seems to me all wrong,
                        utterly pernicious and misleading. And yet,” added Hammond, “I ask you, how
                        on earth are we to do without it? For it sends just that draught of fresh
                        air through the stagnant atmosphere breathed by the commonplace majority
                        which makes romance still possible. It and Religion,—which, I take it, is
                        merely Art in a higher manifestation—alone
                        keep the ideal alive, and so prevent humanity from becoming altogether
                        sordid and bestial. Still I doubt if it, any more than religion, makes for
                        happiness. For contentment I am very sure it does not make.—But let us
                        descend from the contemplation of these high matters,” he went on. “I become
                        heated, therefore I inevitably speak foolishness. You want to know something
                        more about the Carissima? Why, surely you remember that little affair of
                        Percy Gerrard's, how he retired from the editorship of the Present
                            Day on the strength of his engagement to a rich and pretty
                        widow? How he prepared to realise all his noble visions of seigneurial
                        splendour, and ransacked England from the Channel to the Tweed to find some
                        fair demesne, some feudal castle, Elizabethan mansion, or eighteenth-century
                        pseudo-Italian villa, costly enough to be a not wholly unworthy setting to
                        so unique a jewel as himself? Gerrard's head was slightly turned by his
                        approaching glories. He gave himself away rather too freely on the subject
                        of his coming magnificence. And then, at the eleventh hour, the lady jilted
                        him, causing him to cut a most exceedingly sorry figure; while the world,
                        before which he had bragged so noisily, put its tongue in its cheek. Gerrard
                        is not a brave man, and it takes a very great deal of courage to survive
                        being made a fool of. Socially speaking, Gerrard has not survived. He has
                            tried various things since then, but
                        his efforts have not prospered very brilliantly. Last time I saw him he was
                        giving itinerant lectures, in continental towns, to companies of specially
                        selected British and American tourists. I met him on the immense crumbling
                        steps of St. John Lateran, fat and greasy, looking like a particularly
                        undesirable valet de place. A troupe of
                        anxious and dowdy sightseers crowded around him; it was not a pretty or
                        cheerful spectacle. And then, after a time, last year, in fact, the
                        Carissima married Sylvester—you must have often met him—the painter who was
                        Director of the Connop Trust School before the brief and brilliant reign of
                        that strangely lurid being, James Colthurst.”
                    “And the Sylvesters come here to-morrow!” I exclaimed.
                    “Precisely,” Hammond said. “The fair Charlotte is making a great reputation
                        in country-houses just now, I understand. Well, she was charming, she was
                        clever—no one should know that better than I. Only, when she comes, I go.
                        Relations are likely to be somewhat strained between us even yet. We have,
                        neither of us, any great craving after that re-living of the past which must
                        needs take place did we meet. When you have once looked on the face of the
                        naked self of either man or woman, you will be wise carefully to avoid ever
                        seeing them again, unless—”
                    
                    Hammond paused, and the rain drifted rather drearily against the window.
                    “Unless, and that happens but rarely in a lifetime, you are lucky enough to
                        love them very much indeed.”
                    And then, thinking over the story of Leversedge and the power of the
                        Thing-too-Much, over all that he had told me, I asked Hammond what he made
                        of it all?—what he took it to mean? Whereon he smiled very benignly upon me,
                        and whirled the silver string of his eye-glass round his forefinger.
                    “Ah, my dear friend,” he cried, “are you still in that embryonic stage of
                        thought wherein you still feel about after a reason, still have the youthful
                        hopefulness to ask ‘Why?’—Cease to do so. It will only make you irritable,
                        for you will receive no answer. In nine hundred and ninety cases out of
                        every thousand, if there is a ‘why’ at all, it is among the secret things,
                        absolutely beyond the range of the understanding of purblind man. Therefore
                        lay to heart that profound saying of a great artist and great
                            novelist—‘ineptie consiste à vouloir
                            conclure.’—There is the dressing-bell,—we must go.—A modest
                        acquiescence in the actual,—that, in my humble opinion, is the only workable
                        philosophy of life.”
                
            
        
    
