
     ----CITATION----
        Bird, Isabella L. (Isabella Lucy) (1831-1904). The Hawaiian Archipelago. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 805 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (31-March-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7074
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    THE HAWAIIAN ARCHIPELAGO.
                    SIX MONTHS AMONG THE PALM GROVES, CORAL REEFS &
                        VOLCANOES OF THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.
                
                BY ISABELLA L. BIRD, AUTHOR OF THE “ENGLISHWOMAN IN
                    AMERICA.”
                
                    
                        “Summer isles of Eden lying
                        In dark purple spheres of sea.”
                    
                
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
                
                1875.
                
                
                    LONDON: 
                    BRADBURY, AGNEW & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.
                
            
            
                
                TO MY SISTER, TO WHOM THESE LETTERS WERE ORIGINALLY WRITTEN, THEY ARE NOW
                    AFFECTIONATELY Dedicated.
            
            
                
                PREFACE.
                WITHIN the last century the Hawaiian islands have been the
                    topic of various works of merit, and some explanation of the reasons which have
                    led me to enter upon the same subject are necessary.
                I was travelling for health, when circumstances induced me to land on the group,
                    and the benefit which I derived from the climate tempted me to remain for nearly
                    seven months. During that time the necessity of leading a life of open air and
                    exercise as a means of recovery, led me to travel on horseback to and fro
                    through the islands, exploring the interior, ascending the highest mountains,
                    visiting the active volcanoes, and remote regions which are known to few even of
                    the residents, living among the natives, and otherwise seeing Hawaiian life in
                    all its phases.
                At the close of my visit, my Hawaiian friends urged me strongly to publish my
                    impressions and experiences, on the ground that the best books already existing,
                    besides being old, treat chiefly of aboriginal customs and habits now extinct,
                    and of the introduction of Christianity and
                    subsequent historical events. They also represented that I had seen the islands
                    more thoroughly than any foreign visitor, and the volcano of Mauna Loa under
                    specially favourable circumstances, and that I had so completely lived the
                    island life, and acquainted myself with the existing state of the country, as to
                    be rather a kamaina* than a stranger, and that consequently I
                    should be able to write on Hawaii with a degree of intimacy as well as
                    freshness. My friends at home, who were interested in my narratives, urged me to
                    give them to a wider circle, and my inclinations led me in the same direction,
                    with a sort of longing to make others share something of my own interest and
                    enjoyment.
                The letters which follow were written to a near relation, and often hastily and
                    under great difficulties of circumstance, but even with these and other
                    disadvantages, they appear to me the best form of conveying my impressions in
                    their original vividness. With the exception of certain omissions and
                    abridgments, they are printed as they were written, and for such demerits as
                    arise from this mode of publication, I ask the kind indulgence of my
                    readers.
                
                    ISABELLA L. BIRD.
                    
                        January, 1875.
                    
                
                
                    
                        * A native
                            word used to signify an old resident.
                    
                
            
            
                
                ERRATA.
                
                    On p. 26, fifth line from the top, for Bougainvilliers read
                        Bougainvillea.
                    On p. 347, fourth line from the bottom, for Victorian read
                        Australian.
                    On p. 385, in title of diagram, for Jan. 4 read Jan. 31.
                
            
        
        
            
                
                TRAVELS IN THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.
                INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.
                CANON KINGSLEY, in his charming book on the West Indies, says,
                    “The undoubted fact is known I find to few educated English people, that the
                    Coco palm, which produces coir rope, cocoanuts, and a hundred other useful
                    things, is not the same plant as the cacao bush which produces chocolate, or
                    anything like it. I am sorry to have to insist upon this fact, but till
                    Professor Huxley's dream and mine is fulfilled, and our schools deign to teach,
                    in the intervals of Greek and Latin, some slight knowledge of this planet, and
                    of those of its productions which are most commonly in use, even this fact may
                    need to be re-stated more than once.”
                There is no room for the supposition that the intelligence of Mr. Kingsley's
                    “educated English” acquaintance is below the average, and I should be sorry to
                        form an unworthy estimate of that of my own
                    circle, though I have several times met with the foregoing confusion, as well as
                    the following and other equally ill-informed questions, one or two of which I
                    reluctantly admit that I might have been guilty of myself before I visited the
                    Pacific: “Whereabouts are the Sandwich Islands? They are not the same as the
                    Fijis, are they? Are they the same as Otaheite? Are the natives all cannibals?
                    What sort of idols do they worship? Are they as pretty as the other South Sea
                    Islands? Does the king wear clothes? Who do they belong to? Does any one live on
                    them but the savages? Will anything grow on them? Are the people very savage?”
                    etc. Their geographical position is a great difficulty. I saw a gentleman of
                    very extensive information looking for them on the map in the neighbourhood of
                    Tristran d'Acunha; and the publishers of a high-class periodical lately
                    advertised, “Letters from the Sandwich Islands” as “Letters from the South Sea
                    Islands.” In consequence of these and similar interrogatories, which are not
                    altogether unreasonable, considering the imperfect teaching of physical
                    geography, the extent of this planet, the multitude of its productions, and the
                    enormous number of islands composing Polynesia, Micronesia, and Melanesia, it is
                    necessary to preface the following letters with as many preliminary statements
                    as shall serve to make them intelligible.
                The Sandwich Islands do not form one of the South Sea groups, and have no other
                    connexion with them than certain affinities of race and language. They
                    constitute the only important group in the vast North Pacific Ocean, in which they are so advantageously placed as to be
                    pretty nearly equidistant from California, Mexico, China, and Japan. They are in
                    the torrid zone, and extend from 18° 50' to 22° 20' north latitude, and their
                    longitude is from 154° 53' to 160° 15' west from Greenwich. They were discovered
                    by Captain Cook in 1778. They are twelve in number, but only eight are
                    inhabited, and these vary in size from Hawaii, which is 4000 square miles in
                    extent, and 88 miles long by 73 broad, to Kahoolawe, which is only 11 miles long
                    and 8 broad. Their entire superficial area is about 6,100 miles. They are to
                    some extent bounded by barrier reefs of coral, and have few safe harbours. Their
                    formation is altogether volcanic, and they possess the largest perpetually
                    active volcano and the largest extinct crater in the world. They are very
                    mountainous, and two mountain summits on Hawaii are nearly 14,000 feet in
                    height. Their climate for salubrity and general equability is reputed the finest
                    on earth. It is almost absolutely equable, and a man may take his choice between
                    broiling all the year round on the sea level on the leeward side of the islands
                    at a temperature of 80°, and enjoying the charms of a fireside at an altitude
                    where there is frost every night of the year. There is no sickly season, and
                    there are no diseases of locality. The trade winds blow for nine months of the
                    year, and on the windward coasts there is an abundance of rain, and a perennial
                    luxuriance of vegetation.
                The Sandwich Islands are not the same as Otaheite nor as the Fijis, from which
                    they are distant about 4,000 miles, nor are their people of the same race. The
                        natives are not cannibals, and it is
                    doubtful if they ever were so. Their idols only exist in missionary museums.
                    They cast them away voluntarily in 1819, at the very time when missionaries from
                    America sent out to Christianize the group were on their way round Cape Horn.
                    The people are all clothed, and the king, who is an educated gentleman, wears
                    the European dress. The official designation of the group is “Hawaiian Islands,”
                    and they form an independent kingdom.
                The natives are not savages, most decidedly not. They are on the whole a quiet,
                    courteous, orderly, harmless, Christian community. The native population has
                    declined from 400,000 as estimated by Captain Cook in 1778 to 49,000, according
                    to the census of 1872. There are about 5,000 foreign residents, who live on very
                    friendly terms with the natives, and are mostly subjects of Kalakaua, the king
                    of the group.
                The islands have a thoroughly civilized polity, and the Hawaiians show a great
                    aptitude for political organization. They constitute a limited monarchy, and
                    have a constitutional and hereditary king, a parliament with an upper and lower
                    house, a cabinet, a standing army, a police force, a Supreme Court of
                    Judicature, a most efficient postal system, a Governor and Sheriff on each of
                    the larger islands, court officials, and court etiquette, a common school
                    system, custom houses, a civil list, taxes, a national debt, and most of the
                    other amenities and appliances of civilization.
                There is no State Church. The majority of the foreigners, as well as of the
                    natives, are Congregationalists. The
                    missionaries translated the Bible and other books into Hawaiian, taught the
                    natives to read and write, gave the princes and nobles a high class education,
                    induced the king and chiefs to renounce their oppressive feudal rights, with
                    legal advice framed a constitution which became the law of the land, and
                    obtained the recognition of the little Polynesian kingdom as a member of the
                    brotherhood of civilized nations.
                With these few remarks I leave the subject of the volume to develop itself in my
                    letters. They have not had the advantage of revision by any one familiar with
                    the Sandwich Islands, and mistakes and inaccuracies may consequently appear, on
                    which, I hope that my Hawaiian friends will not be very severe. In correcting
                    them, I have availed myself of the very valuable “History of the Hawaiian
                    Islands,” by Mr. Jackson Jarves, Ellis' “Tour Round Hawaii,” Mr. Brigham's
                    valuable monograph on “The Hawaiian Volcanoes,” and sundry reports presented to
                    the legislature during its present session. I have also to express my
                    obligations to the Hon. E. Allen, Chief Justice and Chancellor of the Hawaiian
                    kingdom, Mr. Manley Hopkins, author of “Hawaii,” Dr. T.M. Coan, of New York,
                    Professor W. Alexander, Daniel Smith, Esq., and other friends at Honolulu, for
                    assistance most kindly rendered.
                
                    ISABELLA L. BIRD.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER I.
                
                    STEAMER NEYADA, NORTH PACIFIC, January 19.
                
                A WHITE, unwinking, scintillating sun blazed down upon
                    Auckland, New Zealand. Along the white glaring road from Onehunga, dusty trees
                    and calla lilies drooped with the heat. Dusty thickets sheltered the cicada,
                    whose triumphant din grated and rasped through the palpitating atmosphere. In
                    dusty enclosures, supposed to be gardens, shrivelled geraniums scattered
                    sparsely alone defied the heat. Flags drooped in the stifling air. Men on the
                    verge of sunstroke plied their tasks mechanically, like automatons. Dogs, with
                    flabby and protruding tongues, hid themselves away under archway shadows. The
                    stones of the sidewalks and the brick of the houses radiated a furnace heat. All
                    nature was limp, dusty, groaning, gasping. The day was the climax of a burning
                    fortnight, of heat, draught, and dust, of baked, cracked, dewless land, and oily
                    breezeless seas, of glaring days, passing through fierce fiery sunsets into
                    stifling nights.
                I only remained long enough in the capital to observe that it had a look of
                    having seen better days, and that its business streets had an American impress,
                    and, taking a boat at a wharf, in whose seams the pitch was melting, I went off
                    to the steamer Nevada, which was anchored out in the bay, preferring to spend the night in her than
                    in the unbearable heat on shore. She belongs to the Webb line, an independent
                    mail adventure, now dying a natural death, undertaken by the New Zealand
                    Government, as much probably out of jealousy of Victoria as anything else. She
                    nearly foundered on her last voyage; her passengers unanimously signed a protest
                    against her unseaworthy condition. She was condemned by the Government surveyor,
                    and her mails were sent to Melbourne. She has, however, been patched up for this
                    trip, and eight passengers, including myself, have trusted ourselves to her. She
                    is a huge paddle-steamer, of the old-fashioned American type, deck above deck,
                    balconies, a pilot-house abaft the foremast, two monstrous walking beams, and
                    two masts which, possibly in case of need, might serve as jury masts.
                Huge, airy, perfectly comfortable as she is, not a passenger stepped on board
                    without breathing a more earnest prayer than usual that the voyage might end
                    propitiously. The very first evening statements were whispered about to the
                    effect that her state of disrepair is such that she has not been to her own port
                    for nine months, and has been sailing for that time without a certificate; that
                    her starboard shaft is partially fractured, and that to reduce the strain upon
                    it the floats of her starboard wheel have been shortened five inches, the strain
                    being further reduced by giving her a decided list to port; that her crank is
                    “bandaged,” that she is leaky, that her mainmast is sprung, and that with only
                    four hours' steaming many of her boiler tubes, even some of those put in at Auckland, had already given way. I cannot
                    testify concerning the mainmast, though it certainly does comport itself like no
                    other mainmast I ever saw; but the other statements and many more which might be
                    added, are, I believe, substantially correct. That the caulking of the deck was
                    in evil case we very soon had proof, for during heavy rain above, it was a smart
                    shower in the saloon and state rooms, keeping four stewards employed with
                    buckets and swabs, and compelling us to dine in waterproofs and rubber
                    shoes.
                In this dilapidated condition, when two days out from Auckland, we encountered a
                    revolving South Sea hurricane, succinctly entered in the log of the day as
                    “Encountered a very severe hurricane with a very heavy sea.” It began at eight
                    in the morning, and never spent its fury till nine at night, and the wind
                    changed its direction eleven times. The Nevada left Auckland two
                    feet deeper in the water than she ought to have been, and laboured heavily. Seas
                    struck her under the guards with a heavy, explosive thud, and she
                    groaned and strained as if she would part asunder. It was a long weird day. We
                    held no communication with each other, or with those who could form any rational
                    estimate of the probabilities of our destiny; no officials appeared; the
                    ordinary invariable routine of the steward department was suspended without
                    notice; the sounds were tremendous, and a hot lurid obscurity filled the
                    atmosphere. Soon after four the clamour increased, and the shock of a sea
                    blowing up a part of the fore-guards made the groaning fabric reel and shiver
                    throughout her whole huge bulk. At that time, by
                    common consent, we assembled in the deck-house, which had windows looking in all
                    directions, and sat there for five hours. Very few words were spoken, and very
                    little fear was felt. We understood by intuition that if our crazy engines
                    failed at any moment to keep the ship's head to the sea, her destruction would
                    not occupy half-an-hour. It was all palpable. There was nothing which the most
                    experienced seaman could explain to the merest novice. We hoped for the best,
                    and there was no use in speaking about the worst. Nor, indeed, was speech
                    possible, unless a human voice could have outshrieked the hurricane.
                In this deck-house the strainings, sunderings, and groanings were hardly audible,
                    or rather were overpowered by a sound which, in thirteen months' experience of
                    the sea in all weathers, I have never heard, and hope never to hear again,
                    unless in a staunch ship, one loud, awful, undying shriek, mingled with a
                    prolonged relentless hiss. No gathering strength, no languid fainting into
                    momentary lulls, but one protracted gigantic scream. And this was not the
                    whistle of wind through cordage, but the actual sound of air travelling with
                    tremendous velocity, carrying with it minute particles of water. Nor was the sea
                    running mountains high, for the hurricane kept it down. Indeed during those
                    fierce hours no sea was visible, for the whole surface was caught up and carried
                    furiously into the air, like snow-drift on the prairies, sibilant, relentless.
                    There was profound quiet on deck, the little life which existed being
                    concentrated near the bow, where the captain was either lashed to the foremast,
                    or in shelter in the pilot-house. Never a soul appeared on deck, the force of the hurricane being such that for four
                    hours any man would have been carried off his feet. Through the swift strange
                    evening our hopes rested on the engine, and amidst the uproar and din, and
                    drifting spray, and shocks of pitiless seas, there was a sublime repose in the
                    spectacle of the huge walking beams, alternately rising and falling, slowly,
                    calmly, regularly, as if the Nevada were on a holiday trip within
                    the Golden Gate. At eight in the evening we could hear each other speak, and a
                    little later, through the great masses of hissing drift we discerned black
                    water. At nine Captain Blethen appeared, smoking a cigar with nonchalance, and
                    told us that the hurricane had nearly boxed the compass, and had been the most
                    severe he had known for seventeen years. This grand old man, nearly the oldest
                    captain in the Pacific, won our respect and confidence from the first, and his
                    quiet and masterly handling of this dilapidated old ship is beyond all
                    praise.
                When the strain of apprehension was mitigated, we became aware that we had not
                    had anything to eat since breakfast, a clean sweep having been made, not only of
                    the lunch, but of all the glass in the racks above it; but all requests to the
                    stewards were insufficient to procure even biscuits, and at eleven we retired
                    supperless to bed, amidst a confusion of awful sounds, and were deprived of
                    lights as well as food. When we asked for food or light, and made weak appeals
                    on the ground of faintness, the one steward who seemed to dawdle about for the
                    sole purpose of making himself disagreeable, always replied, “You can't get
                    anything, the stewards are on duty.” We were
                    not accustomed to recognize that stewards had any other duty than that of
                    feeding the passengers, but under the circumstances we meekly acquiesced. We
                    were allowed to know that a part of the foreguards had been carried way, and
                    that iron stanchions four inches thick had been gnarled and twisted like candy
                    sticks, and the constant falling of the saloon casing of the mainmast, showed
                    something wrong there. A heavy clang, heard at intervals by day and night,
                    aroused some suspicions as to more serious damage, and these were afterwards
                    confirmed. As the wind fell the sea rose, and for some hours realized every
                    description I have read of the majesty and magnitude of the rollers of the South
                    Pacific.
                The day after the hurricane something went wrong with the engines, and we were
                    stationary for an hour. We all felt thankful that this derangement which would
                    have jeopardised or sacrificed sixty lives, was then only a slight detention on
                    a summer sea.
                Five days out from Auckland we entered the tropics with a temperature of 80° in
                    the water, and 85° in the air, but as the light head airs blew the intense heat
                    of our two smoke stacks aft, we often endured a temperature of 110°. There were
                    quiet heavy tropical showers, and a general misty dampness, and the Navigator
                    Islands, with their rainbow-tinted coral forests, their fringe of coca palms,
                    and groves of banyan and breadfruit trees, those sunniest isles of the bright
                    South Seas, resolved themselves into dark lumps looming through a drizzling
                    mist. But the showers and the dampness were confined to that region, and for the last fortnight an unclouded
                    tropical sun has blazed upon our crawling ship. The boiler tubes are giving way
                    at the rate of from ten to twenty daily, the fracture in the shaft is extending,
                    and so, partially maimed, the old ship drags her 320 feet of length slowly
                    along. The captain is continually in the engine-room, and we know when things
                    are looking more unpropitious than usual by his coming up puffing his cigar with
                    unusual strength of determination. It has been so far a very pleasant voyage.
                    The moral, mental, and social qualities of my fellow-passengers are of a high
                    order, and since the hurricane we have been rather like a family circle than a
                    miscellaneous accidental group. For some time our days went by in reading aloud,
                    working, chess, draughts and conversation, with two hours at quoits in the
                    afternoon for exercise; but four days ago the only son of Mrs. Dexter, who is
                    the only lady on board besides myself, ruptured a blood vessel on the lungs, and
                    lies in a most critical state in the deck-house from which he has not been
                    moved, requiring most careful nursing, incessant fanning, and the attention of
                    two persons by day and night. Mrs. D. had previously won the regard of everyone,
                    and I had learned to look on her as a friend from whom I should be grieved to
                    part. The only hope for the young man's life is that he should be landed at
                    Honolulu, and she has urged me so strongly to land with her there, where she
                    will be a complete stranger, that I have consented to do so, and consequently
                    shall see the Sandwich Islands. This severe illness has cast a great gloom over
                    our circle of six, and Mr. D. continues in a state of so much exhaustion and peril that all our
                    arrangements as to occupation, recreation, and sleep, are made with reference to
                    a sick, and as we sometimes fear, a dying man, whose state is much aggravated by
                    the maltreatment and stupidity of a dilapidated Scotch doctor, who must be at
                    least eighty, and whose intellects are obfuscated by years of whiskey drinking.
                    Two of the gentlemen not only show the utmost tenderness as nurses, but possess
                    a skill and experience which are invaluable. They never leave him by night, and
                    scarcely take needed rest even in the day, one or other of them being always at
                    hand to support him when faint, or raise him on his pillows.
                It is not only that the Nevada is barely seaworthy, and has kept us
                    broiling in the tropics when we ought to have been at San Francisco, but her
                    fittings are so old. The mattresses bulge and burst, and cockroaches creep in
                    and out, the deck is so leaky that the water squishes up under the saloon
                    matting as we walk over it, the bread swarms with minute ants, and we have to
                    pick every piece over because of weevils. Existence at night is an unequal fight
                    with rats and cockroaches, and at meals with the stewards for time to eat. The
                    stewards outnumber the passengers, and are the veriest riff-raff I have seen on
                    board ship. At meals, when the captain is not below, their sole object is to
                    hurry us from the table in order that they may sit down to a protracted meal;
                    they are insulting and disobliging, and since illness has been on board, have
                    shown a want of common humanity which places them below the rest of their
                    species. The unconcealed hostility with which they regard us is a marvellous contrast to the natural or purchasable
                    civility or servility which prevails on British steamers. It has its comic side
                    too, and we are content to laugh at it, and at all the other oddities of this
                    vaunted “Mail Line.”
                Our most serious grievance was the length of time that we were kept in the damp
                    inter-island region of the Tropic of Capricorn. Early breakfasts, cold plunge
                    baths, and the perfect ventilation of our cabins, only just kept us alive. We
                    read, wrote, and talked like automatons, and our voices sounded thin and far
                    away. We decided that heat was less felt in exercise, made up an afternoon quoit
                    party, and played unsheltered from the nearly vertical sun, on decks so hot that
                    we required thick boots for the protection of our feet, but for three days were
                    limp and faint, and hardly able to crawl about or eat. The nights were
                    insupportable. We used to lounge in the bow, and retire late at night to our
                    cabins, to fight the heat, and scare rats and kill cockroaches with slippers,
                    until driven by the solar heat to rise again unrefreshed to wrestle through
                    another relentless day. We read the “Idylls of the King” and talked of misty
                    meres and reedy fens, of the cool north, with its purple hills, leaping streams,
                    and life-giving breezes, of long northern winters, and ice and snow, but the
                    realities of sultriness and damp scared away our coolest imaginations. In this
                    dismal region, when about forty miles east of Tutuila, a beast popularly known
                    as the “Flying fox”* alighted on our
                    rigging, and was eventually captured * A Frugiferous bat. as a prize for the zoological collection at San
                    Francisco. He is a most interesting animal, something like an exaggerated bat.
                    His wings are formed of a jet black membrane, and have a highly polished claw at
                    the extremity of each, and his feet consist of five beautifully polished long
                    black claws, with which he hangs on head downwards. His body is about twice the
                    size of that of a very large rat, black and furry underneath, and with red foxy
                    fur on his head and back. His face is pointed, with a very black nose and
                    prominent black eyes, with a savage, remorseless expression. His wings, when
                    extended, measure forty-eight inches across, and his flying powers are
                    prodigious. He snapped like a dog at first, but is now quite tame, and devours
                    quantities of dried figs, the only diet he will eat.
                We crossed the Equator in Long. 159° 44', but in consequence of the misty weather
                    it was not till we reached Lat. 10° 6' N. that the Pole star, cold and pure,
                    glistened far above the horizon, and two hours later we saw the coruscating
                    Pleiades, and the starry belt of Orion, the blessed familiar constellations of
                    “auld lang syne,” and a “breath of the cool north,” the first I have felt for
                    five months, fanned the tropic night and the calm silvery Pacific. From that
                    time we have been indifferent to our crawling pace, except for the sick man's
                    sake. The days dawn in rose colour and die in gold, and through their long hours
                    a sea of delicious blue shimmers beneath the sun, so soft, so blue, so
                    dreamlike, an ocean worthy of its name, the
                    enchanted region of perpetual calm, and an endless summer. Far off, for many an
                    azure league, rims of rock, fringed with the graceful coco palm, girdle still
                    lagoons, and are themselves encircled by coral reefs on which the ocean breaks
                    all the year in broad drifts of foam. Myriads of flying fish and a few dolphins
                    and Portuguese men-of-war flash or float through the scarcely undulating water.
                    But we look in vain for the “sails of silk and ropes of sendal,” which are alone
                    appropriate to this dream-world. The Pacific in this region is an indolent blue
                    expanse, pure and lonely, an almost untraversed sea. We revel in these tropic
                    days of transcendent glory, in the balmy breath which just stirs the dreamy
                    blue, in the brief, fierce crimson sunsets, in the soft splendour of the nights,
                    when the moon and stars hang like lamps out of a lofty and distant vault, and in
                    the pearly crystalline dawns, when the sun rising through a veil of rose and
                    gold “rejoices as a giant to run his course,” and brightens by no “pale
                    gradations”into the “perfect day.”
                P.S.—To-morrow morning we expect to sight land. In spite of minor evils, our
                    voyage has been a singularly pleasant one. The condition of the ship and her
                    machinery warrants the strongest condemnation, but her discipline is admirable,
                    and so are many of her regulations, and we might have had a much more
                    disagreeable voyage in a better ship. Captain Blethen is beyond all praise, and
                    so is the chief engineer, whose duties are
                    incessant and most harassing, owing to the critical state of the engines. The
                        Nevada now presents a grotesque appearance, for within the last
                    few hours she has received such an added list to port that her starboard wheel
                    looks nearly out of the water.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER II.
                
                    HAWAIIAN HOTEL, HONOLULU, Jan. 26th.
                
                YESTERDAY morning at 6.30 I was aroused by the news that “The
                    Islands” were in sight. Oahu in the distance, a group of grey, barren peaks
                    rising verdureless out of the lonely sea, was not an exception to the rule that
                    the first sight of land is a disappointment. Owing to the clear atmosphere, we
                    seemed only five miles off, but in reality we were twenty, and the land improved
                    as we neared it; It was the fiercest day we had had, the deck was almost too hot
                    to stand upon, the sea and sky were both magnificently blue, and the unveiled
                    sun turned every minute ripple into a diamond flash. As we approached, the
                    island changed its character. There were lofty peaks, truly—grey and red,
                    sun-scorched and wind-bleached, glowing here and there with traces of their
                    fiery origin; but they were cleft by deep chasms and ravines of cool shadow and
                    entrancing green, and falling water streaked their sides—a most welcome vision
                    after eleven months of the desert sea and the dusty browns of Australia and New
                    Zealand. Nearer yet, and the coast line came into sight, fringed by the feathery
                    cocoanut tree of the tropics, and marked by a long line of surf. The grand
                    promontory of Diamond Head, its fiery sides now
                    softened by a haze of green, terminated the wavy line of palms; then the
                    Punchbowl, a very perfect extinct crater, brilliant with every shade of red
                    volcanic ash, blazed against the green skirts of the mountains. We were close to
                    the coral reef before the cry, “There's Honolulu!” made us aware of the
                    proximity of the capital of the island kingdom, and then, indeed, its existence
                    had almost to be taken upon trust, for besides the lovely wooden and grass huts,
                    with deep verandahs, which nestled under palms and bananas on soft green sward,
                    margined by the bright sea sand, only two church spires and a few grey roofs
                    appeared above the trees.
                We were just outside the reef, and near enough to hear that deep sound of the
                    surf which, through the ever serene summer years girdles the Hawaiian Islands
                    with perpetual thunder, before the pilot glided alongside, bringing the news
                    which Mark Twain had prepared us to receive with interest, that “Prince Bill”
                    had been unanimously elected to the throne. The surf ran white and pure over the
                    environing coral reef, and as we passed through the narrow channel, we almost
                    saw the coral forests deep down under the Nevada's keel; the coral
                    fishers plied their graceful trade; canoes with outriggers rode the combers, and
                    glided with inconceivable rapidity round our ship; amphibious brown beings
                    sported in the transparent waves; and within the reef lay a calm surface of
                    water of a wonderful blue, entered by a. narrow, intricate passage of the
                    deepest indigo. And beyond the reef and beyond the blue, nestling among cocoanut
                    trees and bananas, umbrella trees and breadfruits, oranges, mangoes, hibiscus, algaroba, and passion-flowers,
                    almost hidden in the deep, dense greenery, was Honolulu. Bright blossom of a
                    summer sea! Fair Paradise of the Pacific!
                Inside the reef the magnificent iron-clad California (the flag-ship)
                    and another huge American war vessel, the Benicia, are moored in
                    line with the British corvette Scout, within 200 yards of the
                    shore; and their boats were constantly passing and re-passing, among countless
                    canoes filled with natives. Two coasting schooners were just leaving the
                    harbour, and the inter-island steamer Kilauea, with her deck
                    crowded with natives, was just coming in. By noon the great decrepit
                        Nevada, which has no wharf at which she can lie in sleepy New
                    Zealand, was moored alongside a very respectable one in this enterprising little
                    Hawaiian capital.
                We looked down from the towering deck on a crowd of two or three thousand
                    people—whites, Kanakas, Chinamen—and hundreds of them at once made their way on
                    board, and streamed over the ship, talking, laughing, and remarking upon us in a
                    language which seemed without backbone. Such rich brown men and women they were,
                    with wavy, shining black hair, large, brown, lustrous eyes, and rows of perfect
                    teeth like ivory. Everyone was smiling. The forms of the women seem to be
                    inclined towards obesity, but their drapery, which consists of a sleeved garment
                    which falls in ample and unconfined folds from their shoulders to their feet,
                    partly conceals this defect, which is here regarded as a beauty. Some of these
                    dresses were black, but many of those worn by
                    the younger women were of pure white, crimson, yellow, scarlet, blue, or light
                    green. The men displayed their lithe, graceful figures to the best advantage in
                    white trousers and gay Garibaldi shirts. A few of the women wore coloured
                    handkerchiefs twined round their hair, but generally both men and women wore
                    straw hats, which the men set jauntily on one side of their heads, and
                    aggravated their appearance yet more by bandana handkerchiefs of rich bright
                    colours round their necks, knotted loosely on the left side, with a grace to
                    which, I think, no Anglo-Saxon dandy could attain. Without an exception the men
                    and women wore wreaths and garlands of flowers, carmine, orange, or pure white,
                    twined round their hats, and thrown carelessly round their necks, flowers
                    unknown to me, but redolent of the tropics in fragrance and colour. Many of the
                    young beauties wore the gorgeous blossom of the red hibiscus among their
                    abundant, unconfined, black hair, and many, besides the garlands, wore festoons
                    of a sweet-scented vine, or of an exquisitely beautiful fern, knotted behind and
                    hanging half-way down their dresses. These adornments of natural flowers are
                    most attractive. Chinamen, all alike, very yellow, with almond-shaped eyes,
                    youthful, hairless faces, long pigtails, spotlessly clean clothes, and an
                    expression of mingled cunning and simplicity, “foreigners,” half-whites, a few
                    negroes, and a very few dark-skinned Polynesians from the far-off South Seas,
                    made up the rest of the rainbow-tinted crowd.
                The “foreign” ladies, who were there in great numbers, generally wore simple
                    light prints or muslins, and white straw hats,
                    and many of them so far conformed to native custom as to wear natural flowers
                    round their hats and throats. But where were the hard, angular, careworn,
                    sallow, passionate faces of men and women, such as form the majority of every
                    crowd at home, as well as in America and Australia? The conditions of life must
                    surely be easier here, and people must have found rest from some of its
                    burdensome conventionalities. The foreign ladies, in their simple, tasteful,
                    fresh attire, innocent of the humpings and bunchings, the monstrosities and
                    deformities of ultra-fashionable bad taste, beamed with cheerfulness,
                    friendliness, and kindliness. Men and women looked as easy, contented, and happy
                    as if care never came near them. I never saw such healthy, bright complexions as
                    among the women, or such “sparkling smiles,” or such a diffusion of feminine
                    grace and graciousness anywhere.
                Outside this motley, genial, picturesque crowd about 200 saddled horses were
                    standing, each with the Mexican saddle, with its lassoing horn in front, high
                    peak behind, immense wooden stirrups, with great leathern guards, silver or
                    brass bosses, and coloured saddle-cloths. The saddles were the only element of
                    the picturesque that these Hawaiian steeds possessed. They were sorry, lean,
                    undersized beasts, looking in general as if the emergencies of life left them
                    little time for eating or sleeping. They stood calmly in the broiling sun,
                    heavy-headed and heavy-hearted, with flabby ears and pendulous lower lips, limp
                    and rawboned, a doleful type of the “creation which groaneth and travaileth in
                    misery.” All these belonged to the natives, who
                    are passionately fond of riding. Every now and then a flower-wreathed Hawaiian
                    woman, in her full radiant garment, sprang on one of these animals astride, and
                    dashed along the road at full gallop, sitting on her horse as square and easy as
                    a hussar. In the crowd and outside of it, and everywhere, there were piles of
                    fruit for sale—oranges and guavas, strawberries, papayas, bananas (green and
                    golden), cocoanuts, and other rich, fantastic productions of a prolific climate,
                    where nature gives of her wealth the whole year round. Strange fishes, strange
                    in shape and colour, crimson, blue, orange, rose, gold, such fishes as flash
                    like living light through the coral groves of these enchanted seas, were there
                    for sale, and coral divers were there with their treasures—branch coral, as
                    white as snow, each perfect specimen weighing from eight to twenty pounds. But
                    no one pushed his wares for sale—we were at liberty to look and admire, and pass
                    on unmolested. No vexatious restrictions obstructed our landing. A sum of two
                    dollars for the support of the Queen's Hospital is levied on each passenger, and
                    the examination of ordinary luggage, if it exists, is a mere form. From the
                    demeanour of the crowd it was at once apparent that the conditions of conquerors
                    and conquered do not exist. On the contrary, many of the foreigners there were
                    subjects of a Hawaiian king, a reversal of the ordinary relations between a
                    white and a coloured race which it is not easy yet to appreciate.
                Two of my fellow-passengers, who were going on to San Francisco, were anxious
                    that I should accompany them to the Pali, the
                    great excursion from Honolulu; and leaving Mr. M— to make all arrangements for
                    the Dexters and myself, we hired a buggy, destitute of any peculiarity but a
                    native driver, who spoke nothing but Hawaiian, and left the ship. This place is
                    quite unique. It is said that 15,000 people are buried away in these low-browed,
                    shadowy houses, under the glossy, dark-leaved trees, but except in one or two
                    streets of miscellaneous, old-fashioned looking stores, arranged with a distinct
                    leaning towards native tastes, it looks like a large village, or rather like an
                    aggregate of villages. As we drove through the town we could only see our
                    immediate surroundings, but each had a new fascination. We drove along roads
                    with over-arching trees, through whose dense leafage the noon sunshine only
                    trickled in dancing, broken lights; umbrella trees, caoutchouc, bamboo, mango,
                    orange, breadfruit, candlenut, monkey pod, date and coco palms, alligator pears,
                    “prides” of Barbary, India, and Peru, and huge-leaved, wide-spreading trees,
                    exotics from the South Seas, many of them rich in parasitic ferns, and others
                    blazing with bright, fantastic blossoms. The air was heavy with odours of
                    gardenia, tuberose, oleanders, roses, lilies, and the great white
                    trumpet-flower, and myriads of others whose names I do not know, and verandahs
                    were festooned with a gorgeous trailer with magenta blossoms, passion-flowers,
                    and a vine with masses of trumpet-shaped, yellow, waxy flowers. The delicate
                    tamarind and the feathery algaroba intermingled their fragile grace with the
                    dark, shiny foliage of the South Sea exotics, and the deep red, solitary flowers
                    of the hibiscus rioted among dear familiar
                    fuschias and geraniums, which here attain the height and size of large
                    rhododendrons.
                Few of the new trees surprised me more than the papaya. It is a perfect gem of
                    tropical vegetation. It has a soft, indented stem, which runs up quite straight
                    to a height of from 15 to 30 feet, and is crowned by a profusion of large,
                    deeply indented leaves, with long foot-stalks, and among, as well as
                    considerably below these, are the flowers or the fruit, in all stages of
                    development. This, when ripe, is bright yellow, and the size of a musk melon.
                    Clumps of bananas, the first sight of which, like that of the palm, constitutes
                    a new experience, shaded the native houses with their wonderful leaves, broad
                    and deep green, from five to ten feet long. The breadfruit is a superb tree,
                    about 60 feet high, with deep green, shining leaves, a foot broad, sharply and
                    symmetrically cut, worthy, from their exceeding beauty of form, to take the
                    place of the acanthus in architectural ornament, and throwing their pale green
                    fruit into delicate contrast. All these, with the exquisite rose apple, with a
                    deep red tinge in its young leaves, the fan palm, the chirimoya, and numberless
                    others, and the slender shafts of the coco palms rising high above them, with
                    their waving plumes and perpetual fruitage, were a perfect festival of
                    beauty.
                In the deep shade of this perennial greenery the people dwell. The foreign houses
                    show a very various individuality. The peculiarity in which all seem to share
                    is, that everything is decorated and festooned with flowering trailers. It is often difficult to tell what the
                    architecture is, or what is house and what is vegetation; for all angles, and
                    lattices, and balustrades, and verandahs are hidden by jessamine or
                    passion-flowers, or the gorgeous flamelike Bougainvillers. Many of the dwellings
                    straggle over the ground without an upper story, and have very deep verandahs,
                    through which I caught glimpses of cool, shady rooms, with matted floors. Some
                    look as if they had been transported from the old-fashioned villages of the
                    Connecticut Valley, with their clap-board fronts painted white and jalousies
                    painted green; but then the deep verandah in which families lead an open-air
                    life has been added, and the chimneys have been omitted, and the New England
                    severity and angularity are toned down and draped out of sight by these festoons
                    of large-leaved, bright-blossomed, tropical climbing plants. Besides the frame
                    houses there are houses built of blocks of a cream-coloured coral conglomerate
                    laid in cement, of adobe, or large sun-baked
                    bricks, plastered; houses of grass and bamboo; houses on the ground and houses
                    raised on posts; but nothing looks prosaic, commonplace, or mean, for the glow
                    and luxuriance of the tropics rest on all. Each house has a large garden or
                    “yard,” with lawns of bright perennial greens and banks of blazing, many-tinted
                    flowers, and lines of Dracæna, and other foliage plants, with their great purple
                    or crimson leaves, and clumps of marvellous lilies, gladiolas, ginger, and many
                    plants unknown to me. Fences and walls are altogether buried by passion-flowers,
                    the night-blowing Cereus, and the tropæolum, mixed with geraniums, fuschia, and jessamine, which cluster and entangle
                    over them in indescribable profusion. A soft air moves through the upper
                    branches, and the drip of water from miniature fountains falls musically on the
                    perfumed air. This is midwinter! The summer, they say, is thermometrically
                    hotter, but practically cooler, because of the regular trades which set in in
                    April, but now, with the shaded thermometer at 80° and the sky without clouds,
                    the heat is not oppressive.
                The mixture of the neat grass houses of the natives with the more elaborate homes
                    of the foreign residents has a very pleasant look. The “aborigines” have not
                    been crowded out of sight, or into a special “quarter.” We saw many groups of
                    them sitting under the trees outside their houses, each group with a mat in the
                    centre, with calabashes upon it containing poi, the national Hawaiian dish, a fermented paste made from the root
                    of the kalo, or arum
                        esculentum. As we emerged on the broad road which leads up the
                    Nuuanu Valley to the mountains, we saw many patches of this kalo, a very handsome tropical plant, with large
                    leaves of a bright tender green. Each plant was growing on a small hillock, with
                    water round it. There were beautiful vegetable gardens also, in which Chinamen
                    raise for sale not only melons, pineapples, sweet potatoes, and other edibles of
                    hot climates, but the familiar fruits and vegetables of the temperate zones. In
                    patches of surpassing neatness, there were strawberries, which are ripe here all
                    the year, peas, carrots, turnips, asparagus, lettuce, and celery. I saw no other
                    plants or trees which grow at home, but
                    recognized as hardly less familiar growths the Victorian Eucalyptus, which has
                    not had time to become gaunt and straggling, the Norfolk Island pine, which
                    grows superbly here, and the handsome Moreton Bay fig. But the chief feature of
                    this road is the number of residences; I had almost written of pretentious
                    residences, but the term would be a base slander, as I have jumped to the
                    conclusion that the twin vulgarities of ostentation and pretence have no place
                    here. But certainly for a mile and a half or more there are many very
                    comfortable-looking dwellings, very attractive to the eye, with an ease and
                    imperturbable serenity of demeanour as if they had nothing to fear from heat,
                    cold, wind, or criticism. Their architecture is absolutely unostentatious, and
                    their one beauty is that they are embowered among trailers, shadowed by superb
                    exotics, and surrounded by banks of flowers, while the stately cocoanut, the
                    banana, and the candlenut, the aborigines of Oahu, are nowhere displaced. One
                    house with extensive grounds, a perfect wilderness of vegetation, was pointed
                    out as the summer palace of Queen Emma, or Kaleleonalani, widow of Kamehameha
                    IV., who visited England a few years ago, and the finest garden of all as that
                    of a much respected Chinese merchant, named Afong. Oahu, at least on this
                    leeward side, is not tropical looking, and all this tropical variety and
                    luxuriance which delight the eye result from foreign enthusiasm and love of
                    beauty and shade.
                When we ascended above the scattered dwellings and had passed the tasteful
                    mausoleum, with two tall Kahilis,*
                    * The kalili is
                        shaped like an enormous bottle brush. The fines are sometimes twenty feet
                        high, with handles twelve or fifteen feet long, covered with tortoiseshell
                        and whale tooth ivory. the upper part is formed of a cylinder of wicker work
                        about a foot in diameter, on which red, black, and yellow feathers are
                        fastened. These insignia are carried in procession instead of banners, and
                        used to be fixed in the ground near the temporary residence of the king or
                        chiefs. At the funeral of the late king seventy-six large and small kahilis
                        were carried by the retainers of chief families.
                     or feather plumes, at the door of the tomb in
                    which the last of the Kamehamehas received Christian burial, the glossy,
                    redundant, arborescent vegetation ceased. At that height a shower of rain falls
                    on nearly every day in the year, and the result is a green sward which England
                    can hardly rival, a perfect sea of verdure, darkened in the valley and more than
                    half way up the hill sides by the foliage of the yellow-blossomed and almost
                    impenetrable hibiscus, brightened here and there by the pea-green candlenut.
                    Streamlets leap from crags and ripple along the roadside, every rock and stone
                    is hidden by moist-looking ferns, as aerial and delicate as marabout feathers,
                    and when the windings of the valley and the projecting spurs of mountains shut
                    out all indications of Honolulu, in the cool green loneliness one could image
                    oneself in the temperate zones. The peculiarity of the scenery is, that the
                    hills, which rise to a height of about 4,000 feet, are wall-like ridges of grey
                    or coloured rock, rising precipitously out of the trees and grass, and that
                    these walls are broken up into pinnacles and needles. At the Pali (wall-like
                    precipice), the summit of the ascent of 1,000 feet, we left our buggy, and
                    passing through a gash in the rock the celebrated view burst on us with overwhelming effect. Immense masses of black
                    and ferruginous volcanic rock, hundreds of feet in nearly perpendicular height,
                    formed the pali on either side, and the ridge extended northwards for many
                    miles, presenting a lofty, abrupt mass of grey rock broken into fantastic
                    pinnacles, which seemed to pierce the sky. A broad, umbrageous mass of green
                    clothed the lower buttresses, and fringed itself away in clusters of coco palms
                    on a garden-like stretch below, green with grass and sugar-cane, and dotted with
                    white houses, each with its palm and banana grove, and varied by eminences which
                    looked like long extinct tufa cones. Beyond this enchanted region stretched the
                    coral reef, with its white wavy line of endless surf, and the broad blue
                    Pacific, ruffled by a breeze whose icy freshness chilled us where we stood.
                    Narrow streaks on the landscape, every now and then disappearing behind
                    intervening hills, indicated bridle tracks connected with a frightfully steep
                    and rough zigzag path cut out of the face of the cliff on our right. I could not
                    go down this on foot without a sense of insecurity, but mounted natives driving
                    loaded horses descended with perfect impunity into the dreamland below.
                This pali is the scene of one of the historic tragedies of this island.
                    Kamehameha the Conqueror, who after fierce fighting and much ruthless
                    destruction of human life united the island sovereignties in his own person,
                    routed the forces of the King of Oahu in the Nuuanu Valley, and drove them in
                    hundreds up the precipice, from which they leaped in despair and madness, and
                    their bones lie bleaching 800 feet below.
                
                 
                
                The drive back here was delightful, from the wintry height, where I must confess
                    that we shivered, to the slumbrous calm of an endless summer, the glorious
                    tropical trees, the distant view of cool chasm-like valleys, with Honolulu
                    sleeping in perpetual shade, and the still blue ocean, without a single sail to
                    disturb its profound solitude. Saturday afternoon is a gala-day here, and the
                    broad road was so thronged with brilliant equestrians, that I thought we should
                    be ridden over by the reckless laughing rout. There were hundreds of native
                    horsemen and horsewomen, many of them doubtless on the dejected quadrupeds I saw
                    at the wharf, but a judicious application of long rowelled Mexican spurs, and a
                    degree of emulation, caused these animals to tear along at full gallop. The
                    women seemed perfectly at home in their gay, brass-bossed, high peaked saddles,
                    flying along astride, barefooted, with their orange and scarlet riding dresses
                    streaming on each side beyond their horses' tails, a bright kaleidoscopic flash
                    of bright eyes, white teeth, shining hair, garlands of flowers and many-coloured
                    dresses; while the men were hardly less gay, with fresh flowers round their
                    jaunty hats, and the vermilion-coloured blossoms of the Ohia round their brown throats. Sometimes a troop of twenty of
                    these free-and-easy female riders went by at a time, a graceful and exciting
                    spectacle, with a running accompaniment of vociferation and laughter. Among
                    these we met several of the Nevada's officers, riding in the stiff,
                    wooden style which Anglo-Saxons love, and a horde of jolly British sailors from
                    H.M.S. Scott, rushing helter skelter, colliding with everybody, bestriding their horses as they would a
                    topsail-yard, hanging on to manes and lassoing horns, and enjoying themselves
                    thoroughly. In the shady tortuous streets we met hundreds more of native riders,
                    dashing at full gallop without fear of the police. Many of the women were in
                    flowing riding-dresses of pure white, over which their unbound hair, and wreaths
                    of carmine-tinted flowers fell most picturesquely.
                All this time I had not seen our domicile, and when our drive ended under the
                    quivering shadow of large tamarind and algaroba trees, in front of a long,
                    stone, two-storied house with two deep verandahs festooned with clematis and
                    passion flowers, and a shady lawn in front, I felt as if in this fairy land
                    anything might be expected.
                This is the perfection of an hotel. Hospitality seems to take possession of and
                    appropriate one as soon as one enters its never-closed door, which is on the
                    lower verandah. There is a basement, in which there are a good many bedrooms,
                    the bar, and billiard-room. This is entered from the garden, under two
                    semicircular flights of stairs which lead to the front entrance, a wide corridor
                    conducting to the back entrance. This is crossed by another running the whole
                    length, which opens into a very large many-windowed dining-room which occupies
                    the whole width of the hotel. On the same level there is a large parlour, with
                    French windows opening on the verandah. Upstairs there are two similar corridors
                    on which all the bedrooms open, and each room has one or more French windows
                    opening on the verandah, with doors as well,
                    made like German shutters, to close instead of the windows, ensuring at once
                    privacy and coolness. The rooms are tastefully furnished with varnished pine
                    with a strong aromatic scent, and there are plenty of lounging-chairs on the
                    verandah, where people sit and receive their intimate friends. The result of the
                    construction of the hotel is that a breeze whispers through it by day and
                    night.
                Everywhere, only pleasant objects meet the eye. One can sit all day on the back
                    verandah, watching the play of light and colour on the mountains and the deep
                    blue green of the Nuuanu Valley, where showers, sunshine, and rainbows make
                    perpetual variety. The great dining-room is delicious. It has no curtains, and
                    its decorations are cool and pale. Its windows look upon tropical trees in one
                    direction, and up to the cool mountains in the other. Piles of bananas, guavas,
                    limes, and oranges, decorate the tables at each meal, and strange vegetables,
                    fish, and fruits vary the otherwise stereotyped American hotel fare. There are
                    no female domestics. The host is a German, the manager an American, the steward
                    an Hawaiian, and the servants are all Chinamen in spotless white linen, with
                    pigtails coiled round their heads, and an air of super-abundant good-nature.
                    They know very little English, and make most absurd mistakes, but they are
                    cordial, smiling, and obliging, and look cool and clean. The hotel seems the
                    great public resort of Honolulu, the centre of stir—club-house, exchange and
                    drawing-room in one. Its wide corridors and verandahs are lively with English
                    and American naval uniforms, several planters'
                    families are here for the season; and with health seekers from California,
                    resident boarders, whaling captains, tourists from the British Pacific Colonies,
                    and a stream of townspeople always percolating through the corridors and
                    verandahs, it seems as lively and free-and-easy as a place can be, pervaded by
                    the kindliness and bonhommie which form an important item in my first
                    impressions of the islands. The hotel was lately built by government at a cost
                    of $120,000, a sum which forms a considerable part of that token of an advanced
                    civilization, a National Debt. The minister whose scheme it was seems to be
                    severely censured on account of it, but undoubtedly it brings strangers and
                    their money into the kingdom, who would have avoided it had they been obliged as
                    formerly to cast themselves on the hospitality of the residents. The present
                    proprietor has it rent-free for a term of years, but I fear that it is not
                    likely to prove a successful speculation either for him or the government. I
                    dislike health resorts, and abhor this kind of life, but for those who like
                    both, I cannot imagine a more fascinating residence. The charges are $15 a week,
                    or $3 a day, but such a kindly, open-handed, system prevails that I am not
                    conscious that I am paying anything! This sum includes hot and cold plunge baths
                        ad libitum, justly regarded as a necessity
                    in this climate.
                Dr. McGrew has hope that our invalid will rally in this healing, equable
                    atmosphere. Our kind fellow-passengers are here, and take turns in watching and
                    fanning him. Through the half-closed jalousies we see bread-fruit trees,
                    delicate tamarinds and algarobas, fan-palms, date- palms and bananas, and the deep blue Pacific gleams
                    here and there through the plumage of the cocoanut trees. A soft breeze, scented
                    with a slight aromatic odour, wanders in at every opening, bringing with it,
                    mellowed by distance, the hum and clatter of the busy cicada. The nights are
                    glorious, and so absolutely still, that even the feathery foliage of the
                    algaroba is at rest. The stars seem to hang among the trees like lamps, and the
                    crescent moon gives more light than the full moon at home. The evening of the
                    day we landed, parties of officers and ladies mounted at the door, and with much
                    mirth disappeared on moonlight rides, and the white robes of flower-crowned
                    girls gleamed among the trees, as groups of natives went by speaking a language
                    which sounded more like the rippling of water than human speech. Soft music came
                    from the ironclads in the harbour, and from the royal band at the king's palace,
                    and a rich fragrance of dewy blossoms filled the delicious air. These are indeed
                    the “isles of Eden,” the “sun lands,” musical with beauty. They seem to welcome
                    us to their enchanted shores. Everything is new but nothing strange; for as I
                    enjoyed the purple night, I remembered that I had seen such islands in dreams in
                    the cold gray North. “How sweet,” I thought it would be, thus to hear far off,
                    the low sweet murmur of the “sparkling brine,” to rest, and 
                        “Ever to seem
                        Falling asleep in a half-dream.”
                     A half-dream only, for one would not wish to be quite asleep and lose the
                    consciousness of this delicious outer world. So
                    I thought one moment. The next I heard a droning, humming sound, which certainly
                    was not the surf upon the reef. It came nearer—there could be no mistake. I felt
                    a stab, and found myself the centre of a swarm of droning, stabbing, malignant
                    mosquitos. No, even this is not paradise! I am ashamed to say that on my first
                    night in Honolulu I sought an early refuge from this intolerable infliction, in
                    profound and prosaic sleep behind mosquito curtains.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER III.
                
                    
                        HAWAIIAN HOTEL, Jan. 28th.
                    
                    SUNDAY was a very pleasant day here. Church bells rang, and
                        the shady streets were filled with people in holiday dress. There are two
                        large native churches, the Kaumakapili, and the Kaiwaiaho, usually called
                        the stone church. The latter is an immense substantial building, for the
                        erection of which each Christian native brought a block of rock-coral. There
                        is a large Roman Catholic church, the priests of which are said to have been
                        somewhat successful in proselytizing operations. The Reformed Catholic, or
                        English temporary cathedral, is a tasteful but very simple wooden building,
                        standing in pretty grounds, on which a very useful institution for boarding
                        and training native and half-white girls, and the reception of white girls
                        as day scholars, also stands. This is in connection with Miss Sellon's
                        Sisterhood at Devonport. Another building, alongside the cathedral, is used
                        for English service in Hawaiian. There are two Congregational churches: the
                        old “Bethel,” of which the Rev. S.C. Damon, known to all strangers, and one
                        of the oldest and most respected Honolulu residents, is the minister; and
                        the “Fort St. Church,” which has a large and influential congregation, and
                        has been said to “run the government,”
                        because its members compose the majority of the Cabinet. Lunalilo, the
                        present king, has cast in his lot with the Congregationalists, but queen
                        Emma is an earnest member of the Anglican Church, and attends the Liturgical
                        Hawaiian Service in order to throw the weight of her influence with the
                        natives into the scale of that communion. Her husband spent many of his
                        later days in translating the Prayer-Book. As is natural, most of the
                        natives belong to the denomination from which they or their fathers received
                        the Christian faith, and the majority of the foreigners are of the same
                        persuasion. The New England Puritan influence, with its rigid
                        Sabbatarianism, though considerably worn away, is still influential enough
                        to produce a general appearance of Sabbath observance. The stores are
                        closed, the church-going is very demonstrative, and the pleasure-seeking is
                        very unobtrusive. The wharves are profoundly quiet.
                    I went twice to the English Cathedral, and was interested to see there a lady
                        in a nun's habit, with a number of brown girls, who was pointed out to me as
                        Sister Bertha, who has been working here usefully for many years. The ritual
                        is high. I am told that it is above the desires and the comprehension of
                        most of the island episcopalians, but the zeal and disinterestedness of
                        Bishop Willis will, in time, I doubt not, win upon those who prize such
                        qualities. He called in the afternoon, and took me to his pretty,
                        unpretending residence up the Nuuanu Valley. He has a training and boarding
                        school there for native boys, some of whom were at church in the morning as
                        a surpliced choir. The bishop, his sister,
                        the schoolmaster, and fourteen boys take their meals together in a
                        refectory, the boys acting as servitors by turns. There is service every
                        morning at 6.30 in the private chapel attached to the house, and also in the
                        cathedral a little later. Early risers, so near the equator, must get up by
                        candlelight all the year round.
                    This morning we joined our kind friends from the Nevada for the
                        last time at breakfast. I have noticed that there is often a centrifugal
                        force which acts upon passengers who have been long at sea together,
                        dispersing them on reaching port. Indeed, the temporary enforced cohesion is
                        often succeeded by violent repulsion. But in this instance we deeply regret
                        the dissolution of our pleasant fraternity; the less so, however, that this
                        wonderful climate has produced a favourable change in Mr. D., who no longer
                        requires the hourly attention they have hitherto shown him. The mornings
                        here, dew-bathed and rose-flushed, are, if possible, more lovely than the
                        nights, and people are astir early to enjoy them. The American consul and
                        Mr. Damon called while we were sitting at our eight-o'clock breakfast, from
                        which I gather that formalities are dispensed with. After spending the
                        morning in hunting among the stores for things which were essential for the
                        invalid, I lunched in the Nevada with Captain Blethen and our
                        friends.
                    Next to the advent of “national ships” (a euphemism for men-of-war), the
                        arrivals and departures of the New Zealand mail-steamers constitute the
                        great excitement of Honolulu, and the failures, mishaps, and wonderful
                        unpunctuality of this Webb line are highly stimulating in a region where “nothing happens.” The loungers were
                        saying that the Nevada's pumps were going for five days before
                        we arrived, and pointed out the clearness of the water which was running
                        from them at the wharf as an evidence that she was leaking badly.* The crowd of natives was enormous,
                        and the foreigners were there in hundreds. She was loading with oranges and
                        green bananas up to the last moment,—those tasteless bananas which, out of
                        the tropics, misrepresent this most delicious and ambrosial fruit.
                    There was a far greater excitement for the natives, for King Lunalilo was
                        about to pay a state visit to the American flag-ship
                        California, and every available place along the wharves and
                        roads was crowded with kanakas anxious to see him. I should tell you that
                        the late king, being without heirs, ought to have nominated his successor;
                        but it is said that a sorceress, under whose influence he was, persuaded him
                        that his death would follow upon this act. When he died, two months ago,
                        leaving the succession unprovided for, the duty of electing a sovereign,
                        according to the constitution, devolved upon the people through their
                        representatives, and they exercised it with a combination of order and
                        enthusiasm which reflects great credit on their civilization. They chose the
                        highest chief on the islands, Lunalilo (Above All), known among foreigners
                        as “Prince Bill,” and at this time letters of * A week after
                            her sailing, this unlucky ship put back with some mysterious ailment,
                            and on her final arrival at San Francisco, her condition was found to be
                            such that it was a marvel that she had made the passage at
                            all. congratulation are pouring
                        in upon him from his brethren, the sovereigns of Europe.
                    The spectacular effect of a pageant here is greatly heightened by the
                        cloudless blue sky, and the wealth of light and colour. It was very hot,
                        almost too hot for sight-seeing, on the Nevada's bow.
                        Expectation among the lieges became tremendous and vociferous when Admiral
                        Pennock's sixteen-oared barge, with a handsome awning, followed by two
                        well-manned boats, swept across the strip of water which lies between the
                        ships and the shore. Outrigger canoes, with garlanded men and women, were
                        poised upon the motionless water or darted gracefully round the ironclads,
                        as gracefully to come to rest. Then a stir and swaying of the crowd, and the
                        American Admiral was seen standing at the steps of an English barouche and
                        four, and an Hawaiian imitation of an English cheer rang out upon the air.
                        More cheering, more excitement, and I saw nothing else till the Admiral's
                        barge, containing the Admiral, and the King dressed in a plain morning suit
                        with a single decoration, swept past the Nevada. The suite
                        followed in the other boats,—brown men and white, governors, ministers, and
                        court dignitaries, in Windsor uniforms, but with an added resplendency of
                        plumes, epaulettes, and gold lace. As soon as Lunalilo reached the
                            California, the yards of the three ships were manned, and
                        amidst cheering which rent the air, and the deafening thunder of a royal
                        salute from sixty-three guns of heavy calibre, the popular descendant of
                        seventy generations of sceptred savages stepped on board the flag-ship's
                        deck. No higher honours could have been
                        paid to the Emperor “of all the Russias.” I have seen few sights more
                        curious than that of the representative of the American Republic standing
                        bare-headed before a coloured man, and the two mightiest empires on earth
                        paying royal honours to a Polynesian sovereign, whose little kingdom in the
                        North Pacific is known to many of us at home only as “the group of islands
                        where Captain Cook was killed.” Ah! how lovely this Queen of Oceans is!
                        Blue, bright, balm-breathing, gentle in its supreme strength, different both
                        in motion and colour from the coarse “vexed Atlantic!”
                
                
                    
                        STEAMER KILAUEA, Jan. 29th.
                    
                    I was turning homewards, enjoying the prospect of a quiet week in Honolulu,
                        when Mr. and Mrs. Damon seized upon me, and told me that a lady friend of
                        theirs, anxious for a companion, was going to the volcano on Hawaii, that
                        she was a most expert and intelligent traveller, that the
                            Kilauea would sail in two hours, that unless I went now I
                        should have no future opportunity during my limited stay on the islands,
                        that Mrs. Dexter was anxious for me to go, that they would more than fill my
                        place in my absence, that this was a golden opportunity, that in short I
                            must go, and they would drive me back to the hotel to pack!
                        The volcano is still a myth to me, and I wanted to “read up” before going,
                        and above all was grieved to leave my friend, but she had already made some
                        needful preparations, her son with his feeble voice urged my going, the
                        doctor said that there was now no danger to
                        be apprehended, and the Damons' kind urgency left me so little choice, that
                        by five I was with them on the wharf, being introduced to my travelling
                        companion, and to many of my fellow-passengers. Such an unexpected move is
                        very bewildering, and it is too experimental, and too much of a leap in the
                        dark to be enjoyable at present.
                    The wharf was one dense, well-compacted mass of natives taking leave of their
                        friends with much effusiveness, and the steamer's encumbered deck was
                        crowded with them, till there was hardly room to move; men, women, children,
                        dogs, cats, mats, calabashes of poi,
                        cocoanuts, bananas, dried fish, and every dusky individual of the throng was
                        wreathed and garlanded with odorous and brilliant flowers. All were talking
                        and laughing, and an immense amount of gesticulation seems to emphasize and
                        supplement speech. We steamed through the reef in the brief red twilight,
                        over the golden tropic sea, keeping on the leeward side of the islands.
                        Before it was quite dark the sleeping arrangements were made, and the deck
                        and skylights were covered with mats and mattresses on which 170 natives
                        sat, slept, or smoked,—a motley, parti-coloured mass of humanity, in the
                        midst of which I recognized Bishop Willis in the usual episcopal dress,
                        lying on a mattress among the others, a prey to discomfort and weariness!
                        What would his episcopal brethren at home think of such a hardship?
                    There is a yellow-skinned, soft-voiced, fascinating Goa or Malay steward on
                        board, who with infinite goodwill attends to the comfort of everybody. I was
                            surprised when he asked me if I would
                        like a mattress on the skylight, or a berth below, and in unhesitating
                        ignorance replied severely, “Oh, below, of course, please,” thinking of a
                        ladies' cabin, but when I went down to supper, my eyes were enlightened.
                    The Kilauea is a screw boat of 400 tons, most unprepossessing in
                        appearance, slow, but sure, and capable of bearing an infinite amount of
                        battering. It is jokingly said that her keel has rasped off the branch coral
                        round all the islands. Though there are many inter-island schooners, she is
                        the only sure mode of reaching the windward islands in less than a week; and
                        though at present I am disposed to think rather slightingly of her, and to
                        class her with the New Zealand coasting craft, yet the residents are very
                        proud of her, and speak lovingly of her, and regard her as a blessed
                        deliverance from the horrors of beating to windward. She has a shabby,
                        obsolete look about her, like a second-rate coasting collier, or an old
                        American tow-boat. She looks ill-found, too; I saw two essential pieces of
                        tackle give way as they were hoisting the main sail.* She has a small saloon with a double
                        tier of berths, besides transoms, which give accommodation on the level of
                        the lower berth. There is a stern cabin, which is a prolongation of the
                        saloon, and not in any way separated from it. There is no ladies' cabin; but
                        sex, race, and colour are included in a promiscuous arrangement.
                    * Dear old craft!
                        I would not change her now for the finest palace which floats on the Hudson,
                        or the trimmest of the Hutchesons' beautiful West Highland fleet.
                    
                    Miss Karpe, my travelling companion, and two agreeable ladies, were already
                        in their berths very sick, but I did not get into mine because a cockroach,
                        looking as large as a mouse, occupied the pillow, and a companion not much
                        smaller was roaming over the quilt without any definite purpose. I can't
                        vouch for the accuracy of my observation, but it seemed to me that these
                        tremendous creatures were dark red, with eyes like lobsters', and antennæ
                        two inches long. They looked capable of carrying out the most dangerous and
                        inscrutable designs. I called the Malay steward; he smiled mournfully, but
                        spoke reassuringly, and pledged his word for their innocuousness, but I
                        never can believe that they are not the enemies of man; and I lay down on
                        the transom, not to sleep, however, for it seemed essential to keep watch on
                        the proceedings of these formidable vermin.
                    The grotesqueness of the arrangements of the berths and their occupants grew
                        on me during the night, and the climax was put upon it when a gentleman
                        coming down in the early morning asked me if I knew that I was using the
                        Governor of Maui's head for a footstool, this portly native “Excellency”
                        being in profound slumber on the forward part of the transom. This diagram
                        represents one side of the saloon and the “happy family” of English,
                        Chinamen, Hawaiians, and Americans:— 
                            
                                Governor Lyman.
                                Miss Karpe.
                                Miss —.
                            
                            
                                Afong.
                                Vacant.
                                Miss —.
                            
                            
                                Governor Nahaolelua.
                                Myself.
                                An Hawaiian.
                            
                        
                    I noticed, too, that there were very few trunks and portmanteaus, but that the after end of the
                        saloon was heaped with Mexican saddles and saddlebags, which I learned too
                        late were the essential gear of every traveller on Hawaii.
                    At five this morning we were at anchor in the roads of Lahaina, the chief
                        village on the mountainous island of Maui. This place is very beautiful from
                        the sea, for beyond the blue water and the foamy reef the eye rests
                        gratefully on a picturesque collection of low, one-storied, thatched houses,
                        many of frame, painted white; others of grass, but all with deep, cool
                        verandahs, half hidden among palms, bananas, kukuis, breadfruit, and
                        mangoes, dark groves against gentle slopes behind, covered with sugar-cane
                        of a bright pea-green. It is but a narrow strip of land between the ocean
                        and the red, flaring, almost inaccessible, Maui hills, which here rise
                        abruptly to a height of 6,000 feet, pinnacled, chasmed, buttressed, and
                        almost verdureless, except in a few deep clefts, green and cool with ferns
                        and candlenut trees, and moist with falling water. Lahaina looked intensely
                        tropical in the rose flush of the early morning, a dream of some bright
                        southern isle, too surely to pass away. The sun blazed down on shore, ship,
                        and sea, glorifying all things through the winter day. It was again ecstasy
                        “to dream, and dream” under the awning, fanned by the light sea-breeze, with
                        the murmur of an unknown musical tongue in one's ears, and the rich
                        colouring and graceful grouping of a tropical race around one. We called at
                        Maaleia, a neck of sandy, scorched, verdureless soil, and at Ulupalakua, or
                        rather at the furnace seven times heated,
                        which is the landing of the plantation of that name, on whose breezy slopes
                        cane refreshes the eye at a height of 2,000 feet above the sea. We anchored
                        at both places, and with what seemed to me a needless amount of delay,
                        discharged goods and natives, and natives, mats, and calabashes were
                        embarked. In addition to the essential mat and calabash of poi, every native carried some pet, either dog
                        or cat, which was caressed, sung to, and talked to with extreme tenderness;
                        but there were hardly any children, and I noticed that where there were any,
                        the men took charge of them. There were very few fine, manly dogs; the pets
                        in greatest favour are obviously those odious weak-eyed, pink-nosed Maltese
                        terriers.
                    The aspect of the sea was so completely lazy, that it was a fresh surprise as
                        each indolent undulation touched the shore that it had latent vigour left to
                        throw itself upwards into clouds of spray. We looked through limpid water
                        into cool depths where. strange bright fish darted through the submarine
                            chapparal, but the coolness was imaginary, for the
                        water was at 80.°* The air above
                            * This
                            temperature is, of course, in shallow water. The United States surveying
                            vessel, Tuscarora, lately left San Diego, California,
                            shaping a straight course for Honolulu, and found a nearly uniform
                            temperature of from 33° to 34° Fahrenheit at all depths below 1100
                            fathoms. The following table gives a good idea of the temperature of
                            ocean water in this region of the Pacific:— 
                                
                                    100
                                    64° 7
                                
                                
                                    200
                                    48° 7
                                
                                
                                    300
                                    42° 4
                                
                                
                                    400
                                    40° 4
                                
                                
                                    500
                                    39° 4
                                
                                
                                    600
                                    38° 6
                                
                                
                                    700
                                    38° 3
                                
                                
                                    800
                                    37° 5
                                
                                
                                    900
                                    36° 6
                                
                                
                                    1000
                                    35° 6
                                
                                
                                    1200
                                    35° 4
                                
                                
                                    3054
                                    33° 2
                                
                             The Tuscarora found the extraordinary depth of 3023 fathoms at
                            a distance of only 43 miles from Molokai. the great black lava flood, which in prehistoric
                        times had flowed into the sea, and had ever since declined the kindly
                        draping offices of nature, vibrated in waves of heat. Even the imperishable
                        cocoanut trees, whose tall, bare, curved trunks rose from the lava or the
                        burnt red earth, were gaunt, tattered, and thirsty-looking, weary of crying
                        for moisture to the pitiless skies. At last the ceaseless ripple of talk
                        ceased, crew and passengers slept on the hot deck, and no sounds were heard
                        but the drowsy flap of the awning, and the drowsier creak of the rudder, as
                        the Kilauea swayed sleepily on the lazy undulations. The flag
                        drooped and fainted with heat. The white sun blazed like a magnesium light
                        on blue water, black lava, and fiery soil, roasting, blinding,
                        scintillating, and flushed the red rocks of Maui into glory. It was a
                        constant marvel that troops of mounted natives, male and female, could
                        gallop on the scorching shore without being melted or shrivelled. It is all
                        glorious, this fierce bright glow of the Tropic of Cancer, yet it was a
                        relief to look up the great rolling featureless slopes above Ulupalakua to a
                        forest belt of perennial green, watered, they say, by perpetual showers, and
                        a little later to see a mountain summit uplifted into a region of endless
                        winter, above a steady cloud-bank as white as snow. This mountain, Haleakala, the House of the Sun, is the largest
                        extinct volcano in the world, its terminal crater being nineteen miles in
                        circumference at a height of more than 10,000 feet. It, and its spurs,
                        slopes, and clusters of small craters form East Maui. West Maui is composed
                        mainly of the lofty picturesque group of the Eeka mountains. A desert strip
                        of land, not much above high water mark, unites the twain, which form an
                        island forty-eight miles long and thirty broad, with an area of 620 square
                        miles.
                    We left Maui in the afternoon, and spent the next six hours in crossing the
                        channel between it and Hawaii, but the short tropic day did not allow us to
                        see anything of the latter island but two snow-capped domes uplifted above
                        the clouds. I have been reading Jarves' excellent book on the islands as
                        industriously as possible, as well as trying to get information from my
                        fellow-passengers regarding the region into which I have been so suddenly
                        and unintentionally projected. I really know nothing about Hawaii, or the
                        size and phenomena of the volcano to which we are bound, or the state of
                        society or of the native race, or of the relations existing between it and
                        the foreign population, or of the details of the constitution. This
                        ignorance is most oppressive, and I see that it will not be easily
                        enlightened, for among several intelligent gentlemen who have been
                        conversing with me, no two seem agreed on any matter of fact.
                    From the hour of my landing I have observed the existence of two parties of
                            pro and anti missionary leanings, with views on all island subjects
                        in grotesque antagonism. So far, the former
                        have left the undoubted results of missionary effort here to speak for
                        themselves; and I am almost disposed, from the pertinacious aggressiveness
                        of the latter party, to think that it must be weak. I have already been
                        seized upon (a gentleman would write “button-holed”) by several persons,
                        who, in their anxiety to be first in imprinting their own views on the
                            tabula rasa of a stranger's mind, have
                        exercised an unseemly over-haste in giving the conversation an
                        anti-missionary twist. They apparently desire to convey the impression that
                        the New England teachers, finding a people rejoicing in the innocence and
                        simplicity of Eden, taught them the knowledge of evil, turned them into a
                        nation of hypocrites, and with a strange mingling of fanaticism and
                        selfishness, afflicted them with many woes calculated to accelerate their
                        extinction, clothing among others. The animus appears strong
                        and bitter. There are two intelligent and highly educated ladies on board,
                        daughters of missionaries, and the candid and cautious tone in which they
                        speak on the same subject impresses me favourably. Mr. Damon introduced me
                        to a very handsome half white gentleman, a lawyer of ability, and lately
                        interpreter to the Legislature, Mr. Ragsdale, or, as he is usually called,
                        “Bill Ragsdale,” a leading spirit among the natives. His conversation was
                        eloquent and poetic, though rather stilted, and he has a good deal of French
                        mannerism; but if he is a specimen of native patriotic feeling, I think that
                        the extinction of Hawaiian nationality must be far off. I was amused with
                        the attention that he paid to his dress under very adverse circumstances. He
                        has appeared in three different suits, with
                        light kid gloves to match, all equally elegant, in two days. A Chinese
                        gentleman, who is at the same time a wealthy merchant at Honolulu, and a
                        successful planter on Hawaii, interests me, from the quiet keen intelligence
                        of his face, and the courtesy and dignity of his manner. I hear that he
                        possesses the respect of the whole community for his honour and integrity.
                        It is quite unlike an ordinary miscellaneous herd of passengers. The tone is
                        so cheerful, courteous, and friendly, and people speak without
                        introductions, and help to make the tone pass pleasantly to each other.
                
                
                    
                        HILO, HAWAII.
                    
                    The Kilauea is not a fast propeller, and as she lurched very
                        much in crossing the channel most of the passengers were sea-sick, a
                        casualty which did not impair their cheerfulness and good humour. After dark
                        we called at Kawaihae (pronounced To-wee-hye), on the northwest of Hawaii,
                        and then steamed through the channel to the east or windward side. I was
                        only too glad on the second night to accept the offer of “a mattress on the
                        skylight,” but between the heavy rolling caused by the windward swell, and
                        the natural excitement on nearing the land of volcanoes and earthquakes, I
                        could not sleep, and no other person slept, for it was considered “a very
                        rough passage,” though there was hardly a yachtsman's breeze. It would do
                        these Sybarites good to give them a short spell of the howling horrors of
                        the North or South Atlantic, an easterly snowstorm off Sable Island, or a winter gale in the latitude of
                        Inaccessible Island! The night was cloudy, and so the glare from Kilauea
                        which is often seen far out at sea was not visible.
                    When the sun rose amidst showers and rainbows (for this is the showery
                        season), I could hardly believe my eyes. Scenery, vegetation, colour were
                        all changed. The glowing red, the fiery glare, the obtrusive lack of
                        vegetation were all gone. There was a magnificent coast-line of grey cliffs
                        many hundred feet in height, usually draped with green, but often black,
                        caverned, and fantastic at their bases. Into cracks and caverns the heavy
                        waves surged with a sound like artillery, sending their broad white sheets
                        of foam high up among the ferns and trailers, and drowning for a time the
                        endless baritone of the surf, which is never silent through the summer
                        years. Cascades in numbers took one impulsive leap from the cliffs into the
                        sea, or came thundering down clefts or “gulches,” which, widening at their
                        extremities, opened on smooth green lawns, each one of which has its grass
                        house or houses, kalo patch, bananas, and
                        coco-palms, so close to the broad Pacific that its spray often frittered
                        itself away over their fan-like leaves. Above the cliffs there were grassy
                        uplands with park-like clumps of the screw-pine, and candle-nut, and glades
                        and dells of dazzling green, bright with cataracts, opened up among the dark
                        dense forests which for some thousands of feet girdle Mauna Kea and Mauna
                        Loa, two vast volcanic mountains, whose snow-capped summits gleamed here and
                        there above the clouds, at an altitude of
                        nearly 14,000 feet. Creation surely cannot exhibit a more brilliant green
                        than that which clothes windward Hawaii with perpetual spring. I have never
                        seen such verdure. In the final twenty-nine miles there are more than sixty
                        gulches, from 100 to 700 feet in depth, each with its cataracts, and wild
                        vagaries of tropical luxuriance. Native churches, frame-built and painted
                        white, are almost like mile-stones along the coast, far too large and too
                        many for the notoriously dwindling population. Ten miles from Hilo we came
                        in sight of the first sugar plantation, with its patches of yet brighter
                        green, its white boiling house and tall chimney stack; then more churches,
                        more plantations, more gulches, more houses, and before ten we steamed into
                        Byron's, or as it is now called Hilo Bay.
                    This is the paradise of Hawaii. What Honolulu attempts to be, Hilo is without
                        effort. Its crescent-shaped bay, said to be the most beautiful in the
                        Pacific, is a semi-circle of about two miles, with its farther extremity
                        formed by Cocoanut Island, a black lava islet on which this palm attains
                        great perfection, and beyond it again a fringe of cocoanuts marks the deep
                        indentations of the shore. From this island to the north point of the bay,
                        there is a band of golden sand on which the roar of the surf sounded
                        thunderous and drowsy as it mingled with the music of living waters, the
                        Waiakea and the Wailuku, which after lashing the sides of the mountains
                        which give them birth, glide deep and fern-fringed into the ocean. Native
                        houses, half hidden by greenery, line the bay, and stud the heights above
                            the Wailuku, and near the landing some
                        white frame houses and three church spires above the wood denote the foreign
                        element. Hilo is unique. Its climate is humid, and the long repose which it
                        has enjoyed from rude volcanic upheavals has mingled a great depth of
                        vegetable mould with the decomposed lava. Rich soil, rain, heat, sunshine,
                        stimulate nature to supreme efforts, and there is a luxuriant prodigality of
                        vegetation which leaves nothing uncovered but the golden margin of the sea,
                        and even that above high-water-mark is green with the Convolvulus maritimus.
                        So dense is the wood that Hilo is rather suggested than seen. It is only on
                        shore that one becomes aware of its bewildering variety of native and exotic
                        trees and shrubs. From the sea it looks one dense mass of greenery, in which
                        the bright foliage of the candle-nut relieves the glossy dark green of the
                        breadfruit—a maze of preposterous bananas, out of which rise slender
                        annulated trunks of palms giving their infinite grace to the grove. And
                        palms along the bay, almost among the surf, toss their waving plumes in the
                        sweet soft breeze, not “palms in exile,” but children of a blessed isle
                        where “never wind blows loudly.” Above Hilo, broad lands sweeping up
                        cloudwards, with their sugar cane, kalo,
                        melons, pine-apples, and banana groves suggest the boundless liberality of
                        Nature. Woods and waters, hill and valley are all there, and from the region
                        of an endless summer the eye takes in the domain of an endless winter, where
                        almost perpetual snow crowns the summits of Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa. Mauna
                        Kea from Hilo has a shapely aspect, for its top is broken into peaks, said to be the craters of extinct
                        volcanoes, but my eyes seek the dome-like curve of Mauna Loa with far deeper
                        interest, for it is as yet an unfinished mountain. It has a huge crater on
                        its summit 800 feet in depth, and a pit of unresting fire on its side; it
                        throbs and rumbles, and palpitates; it has sent forth floods of fire over
                        all this part of Hawaii, and at any moment it may be crowned with a lonely
                        light, showing that its tremendous forces are again in activity. My
                        imagination is already inflamed by hearing of marvels, and I am beginning to
                        think tropically.
                    Canoes came off from the shore, dusky swimmers glided through the water,
                        youths, athletes, like the bronzes of the Naples Museum, rode the waves on
                        their surf-boards, brilliantly dressed riders galloped along the sands and
                        came trooping down the bridle-paths from all the vicinity till a
                        many-coloured tropical crowd had assembled at the landing. Then a whaleboat
                        came off, rowed by eight young men in white linen suits and white straw
                        hats, with wreaths of carmine-coloured flowers round both hats and throats.
                        They were singing a glee in honour of Mr. Ragsdale, whom they sprang on deck
                        to welcome. Our crowd of native fellow-passengers, by some inscrutable
                        process, had re-arrayed themselves and blossomed into brilliancy. Hordes of
                        Hilo natives swarmed on deck, and it became a Babel of alohas, kisses, hand-shakings, and reiterated
                        welcomes. The glee singers threw their beautiful garlands of roses and
                            ohias over the foreign passengers, and
                        music, flowers, goodwill and kindliness made us welcome to these
                            enchanted shores. We landed in a
                        whaleboat, and were hoisted up a rude pier which was crowded, for what the
                        arrival of the Australian mail-steamer is to Honolulu, the coming of the
                            Kilauea is to Hilo. I had not time to feel myself a
                        stranger, there were so many introductions, and so much friendliness. Mr.
                        Coan and Mr. Lyman, two of the most venerable of the few surviving
                        missionaries, were on the landing, and I was introduced to them and many
                        others. There is no hotel in Hilo. The residents receive strangers, and Miss
                        Karpe and I were soon installed in a large buff frame-house, with two deep
                        verandahs, the residence of Mr. Severance, Sheriff of Hawaii.
                    Unlike many other places, Hilo is more fascinating on closer acquaintance, so
                        fascinating that it is hard to write about it in plain prose. Two narrow
                        roads lead up from the sea to one as narrow, running parallel with it.
                        Further up the hill another runs in the same direction. There are no
                        conveyances, and outside the village these narrow roads dwindle into
                        bridle-paths, with just room for one horse to pass another. The houses in
                        which Mr. Coan, Mr. Lyman, Dr. Wetmore (formerly of the Mission), and one or
                        two others live, have just enough suggestion of New England about them to
                        remind one of the dominant influence on these islands, but the climate has
                        idealized them, and clothed them with poetry and antiquity.
                    Of the three churches, the most prominent is the Roman Catholic Church, a
                        white frame building with two great towers; Mr. Coan's native church with a
                            spire comes next; and then the neat
                        little foreign church, also with a spire. The Romish Church is a rather
                        noisy neighbour, for its bells ring at unnatural hours, and doleful strains
                        of a band which cannot play either in time or tune proceed from it. The
                        court-house, a large buff painted frame-building with two deep verandahs,
                        standing on a well-kept lawn planted with exotic trees, is the most imposing
                        building in Hilo. All the foreigners have carried out their individual
                        tastes in their dwellings, and the result is very agreeable, though in
                        picturesqueness they must yield the palm to the native houses, which whether
                        of frame, or grass plain or plaited, whether one or two storeyed, all have
                        the deep thatched roofs and verandahs plain or fantastically latticed, which
                        are so in harmony with the surroundings. These lattices and single and
                        double verandahs are gorgeous with trailers, and the general warm brown tint
                        of the houses contrasts pleasantly with the deep green of the bananas which
                        over-shadow them. There are living waters everywhere. Each house seems to
                        possess its pure bright stream, which is arrested in bathing houses to be
                        liberated among kalo patches of the
                        brightest green. Every verandah appears a gathering place, and the bright
                            holukus of the women, the gay shirts
                        and bandanas of the men, the brilliant wreaths of natural flowers which
                        adorn both, the hot-house temperature, the new trees and flowers which
                        demand attention, the strange rich odours, and the low monotonous recitative
                        which mourns through the groves make me feel that I am in a new world. Ah,
                        this is all Polynesian! This must be the
                        land to which the “timid-eyed” lotos-eaters came. There is a strange
                        fascination in the languid air, and it is strangely sweet “to dream of
                        fatherland”...
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER IV.
                
                    HILO, HAWAII.
                
                I FIND that I can send another short letter before leaving for
                    the volcano. I cannot convey to you any idea of the greenness and lavish
                    luxuriance of this place, where everything flourishes, and glorious trailers and
                    parasitic ferns hide all unsightly objects out of sight. It presents a
                    bewildering maze of lilies, roses, fuschias, clematis, begonias, convolvuli, the
                    huge appalling looking granadilla, the purple and yellow water lemons, also
                    varieties of passiflora, both with delicious edible fruit, custard apples, rose
                    apples, mangoes, mangostein guavas, bamboos, alligator pears, oranges,
                    tamarinds, papayas, bananas, breadfruit, magnolias, geraniums, candle-nut,
                    gardenias, dracsenas, eucalyptus, pandanus, ohias,*
                    kamani trees, kalo, †
                    noni, †
                    and quantities of other trees and flowers, of which I shall eventually learn the
                    names, patches of pine-apple, melons, and sugar-cane for children to suck,
                        kalo and sweet potatoes.
                In the vicinity of this and all other houses, Chili peppers, and a ginger-plant
                    with a drooping flower-stalk with a great number of blossoms, which when not
                    fully developed have a singular resemblance to very pure porcelain tinted with
                    pink at the extremities of the buds, are * Metrosideros Polymorpha.
                    † Colocasia
                        antiquorum (arum esculentum).
                    † Morinda
                        Citrifolia. to be seen growing in
                    “yards,” to use a most unfitting Americanism. I don't know how to introduce you
                    to some of the things which delight my eyes here; but I must ask you to believe
                    that the specimens of tropical growths which we see in conservatories at home
                    are in general either misrepresentations, or very feeble representations of
                    these growths in their natural homes. I don't allude to flowers, and especially
                    not to orchids, but in this instance very specially to bananas, coco-palms, and
                    the pandanus. For example, there is a specimen of the Pandanus odoratissimus in
                    the palm-house in the Edinburgh Botanic Gardens, which is certainly a malignant
                    caricature, with its long straggling branches, and widely scattered tufts of
                    poverty stricken foliage. The bananas and plantains in that same palm-house
                    represent only the feeblest and poorest of their tribe. They require not only
                    warmth and moisture, but the generous sunshine of the tropics for their
                    development. In the same house the date and sugar-palms are tolerable specimens,
                    but the cocoa-nut trees are most truly “palms in exile.”
                I suppose that few people ever forget the first sight of a palm-tree of any
                    species. I vividly remember seeing one for the first time at Malaga, but the
                    coco-palm groves of the Pacific have a strangeness and witchery of their own. As
                    I write now I hear the moaning rustle of the wind through their plume-like tops,
                    and their long slender stems, and crisp crown of leaves above the trees with
                    shining leafage which revel in damp, have a suggestion of Orientalism about
                    them. How do they come too, on every atoll or rock that raises its head
                    throughout this lonely ocean? They fringe the
                    shores of these islands. Wherever it is dry and fiercely hot, and the lava is
                    black and hard, and nothing else grows, or can grow, there they are, close to
                    the sea, sending their root-fibres seawards as if in search of salt water. Their
                    long, curved, wrinkled, perfectly cylindrical stems, bulging near the ground
                    like an apothecary's pestle, rise to a height of from sixty to one hundred feet.
                    These stems are never straight, and in a grove lean and curve every way, and are
                    apparently capable of enduring any force of wind or earthquake. They look as if
                    they had never been young, and they show no signs of growth, rearing their plumy
                    tufts so far aloft, and casting their shadows so far away, always supremely
                    lonely, as though they belonged to the heavens rather than the earth. Then,
                    while all else that grows is green they are yellowish. Their clusters of nuts in
                    all stages of growth are yellow, their fan-like leaves, which are from twelve to
                    twenty feet long, are yellow, and an amber light pervades and surrounds them.
                    They provide milk, oil, food, rope, and matting, and each tree produces about
                    one hundred nuts annually.
                The pandanus, or lauhala, is one of the most
                    striking features of the islands. Its funereal foliage droops in Hilo, and it
                    was it that I noticed all along the windward coast as having a most striking
                    peculiarity of aërial roots which the branches send down to the ground, and
                    which I now see have large cup-shaped spongioles. These air-roots seem like
                    props, and appear to vary in length from three to twelve feet, according to the
                    situation of the tree. There is one variety I saw to-day, the “screw pine,”
                    which is really dangerous if one approached it
                    unguardedly. It is a whorled pandanus, with long sword-shaped leaves, spirally
                    arranged in three rows, and hard, saw-toothed edges, very sharp. When unbranched
                    as I saw them, they resemble at a distance pine-apple plants thirty times
                    magnified. But the mournful looking trees along the coast and all about Hilo are
                    mostly the Pandanus odoratissimus, a spreading and branching tree which grows
                    fully twenty-five feet high, supports itself among inaccessible rocks by its
                    prop-like roots, and is one of the first plants to appear on the newly-formed
                    Pacific islands.* Its foliage is
                    singularly dense, although it is borne in tufts of a quantity of long yucca-like
                    leaves on the branches. The shape of the tree is usually circular. The mournful
                    look is caused by the leaves taking a downward and very decided droop in the
                    middle. At present each tuft of leaves has in its centre an object like a green
                    pine-apple. This contains the seeds which are eatable, as is also the fleshy
                    part of the drupes. I find that it is from the seeds of this tree and their
                    coverings that the brilliant orange leis, or
                    garlands of the natives, are made. The soft white case of the leaves and the
                    terminal buds can also be eaten. The leaves are used for thatching, and their
                    tough longitudinal fibres for mats and ropes. There is another * I have since
                        learned that it is the same as the Kaldera bush of Southern India, and that
                        the powerful fragrance of its flowers is the subject of continual allusions
                        in Sanskrit poetry under the name of Ketaka, and that oil impregnated with
                        its odour is highly prized as a perfume in India. The Hawaiians also used it
                        to give a delicious scent to the Tapa made for their chiefs from the inner
                        bark of the paper mulberry. kind,
                    the Pandanus vacoa, the same as is used for making sugar bags in Mauritius, but
                    I have not seen it.
                One does not forget the first sight of a palm. I think the banana comes next, and
                    I see them in perfection here for the first time, as those in Honolulu grow in
                    “yards,” and are tattered by the winds. It transports me into the tropics in
                    feeling, as I am already in them in fact, and satisfies all my cravings for
                    something which shall represent and epitomize their luxuriance, as well as for
                    simplicity and grace in vegetable form. And here it is everywhere with its
                    shining shade, its smooth fat green stem, its crown of huge curving leaves from
                    four to ten feet long, and its heavy cluster of a whorl of green or golden
                    fruit, with a pendant purple cone of undeveloped blossom below. It is of the
                    tropics, tropical; a thing of beauty, and gladness, and sunshine. It is
                    indigenous here, and wild, but never bears seeds, and is propagated solely by
                    suckers, which spring up when the parent plant has fruited, or by cuttings. It
                    bears seed, strange to say, only (so far as is known) in the Andaman Islands,
                    where, stranger still, it springs up as a second growth wherever the forests are
                    cleared. Go to the palm-house, find the Musa sapientum, magnify it ten times,
                    glorify it immeasurably, and you will have a laggard idea of the banana groves
                    of Hilo.
                The ground is carpeted with a grass of preternaturally vivid green and rankness
                    of growth, mixed with a handsome fern, with a caudex a foot high, the Sadleria
                    cyathoides, and another of exquisite beauty, the 
                        Micro-
                        Micropia
                     pia tenuifolia, which are said to be
                    the commonest ferns on Hawaii. It looks Elysian.
                Hilo is a lively place for such a mere village; so many natives are stirring
                    about, and dashing along the narrow roads on horseback. This is a large airy
                    house, simple and tasteful, with pretty engravings and water-colour drawings on
                    the walls. There is a large bath-house in the garden, into which a pure, cool
                    stream has been led, and the gurgle and music of many such streams fill the
                    sweet, soft air. There is a saying among sailors, “Follow a Pacific shower, and
                    it leads you to Hilo.” Indeed I think they have a rainfall of from thirteen to
                    sixteen feet annually. These deep verandahs are very pleasant, for they render
                    window-blinds unnecessary; so there is nothing of that dark stuffiness which
                    makes indoor life a trial in the closed, shadeless Australian houses.
                Miss Karpe, my travelling companion, is a lady of great energy, and apparently an
                    adept in the art of travelling. Undismayed by three days of sea-sickness, and
                    the prospect of the tremendous journey to the volcano to-morrow, she
                    extemporised a ride to the Anuenue Falls on the Wailuku this afternoon, and I
                    weakly accompanied her, a burly policeman being our guide. The track is only a
                    scramble among rocks and holes, concealed by grass and ferns, and we had to
                    cross a stream, full of great holes, several times. The Fall itself is very
                    pretty, 110 feet in one descent, with a cavernous shrine behind the water,
                    filled with ferns. There were large ferns all
                    round the Fall, and a jungle of luxuriant tropical shrubs of many kinds.
                Three miles above this Fall there are the Pei-pei Falls, very interesting
                    geologically. The Wailuku River is the boundary between the two great volcanoes,
                    and its waters, it is supposed by learned men, have often flowed over heated
                    beds of basalt, with the result of columnar formation radiating from the bottom
                    of the stream. This structure is sometimes beautifully exhibited in the form of
                    Gothic archways, through which the torrent pours into a basin, surrounded by
                    curved, broken, and half-sunk prisms, black and prominent amidst the white foam
                    of the Falls. In several places the river has just pierced the beds of lava, and
                    in one passes under a thick rock bridge, several hundred feet wide. Often, where
                    the water flows over beds of dark grey basalt, masses of trachyte, closely
                    resembling syenite, have formed “potholes,” and by mutual action have been worn
                    to pebbles. At Pei-pei there are three circular pools, each about fifty feet in
                    diameter, and separated by walls six feet thick, in a bed of columnar
                        basalt.* During freshets the river
                    sometimes rises thirty feet, and hides these pools, but during the dry season
                    the upper bed is bare, and after a succession of cascades of various heights the
                    stream pours into the first basin, filling it with foam. From this there is no
                    apparent outlet, but leaves thrown in soon appear in the second basin, whose
                    tranquillity is only disturbed by a few bubbles. Between this and the third
                        * See Brigham,
                        on the “Hawaiian Volcanoes.” there
                    are two subterranean passages, and the water there leaps over a fall about forty
                    feet high, nearly covering a perfect Gothic arch which is the entrance to a
                    shallow cave. The scene is enclosed by high and nearly perpendicular walls.*
                Near the Anuenue Fall we stopped at a native house, outside which a woman, in a
                    rose-coloured chemise, was stringing roses for a necklace, while her husband
                    pounded the kalo root on a board. His only
                    clothing was the malo, a narrow strip of cloth
                    wound round the loins, and passed between the legs. This was the only covering
                    worn by men before the introduction of Christianity. Females wore the pau, a short petticoat made of tapa, which reached from the waist to the knees. To
                    our eyes, the brown skin produces nearly the effect of clothing.
                Everything was new and interesting, but the ride was spoiled by my insecure seat
                    in my saddle, and the increased pain in my spine which riding produced. Once in
                    crossing a stream the horses have to make a sort of downward jump from a rock,
                    and I slipped round my horse's neck. Indeed on the way back I felt that on the
                    ground of health I must give up the volcano, as I would never consent to be
                    carried to it, like Lady Franklin, in a litter. When we returned, Mr. Severance
                    suggested that it would be much better for me to follow the Hawaiian fashion,
                    and ride astride, and put his saddle on the horse. It was only my strong desire
                    to see the 
                        vol-
                        volcano
                    
                    * In explorations
                        some months later, I found nearly similar phenomena, in two other of the
                        streams on the windward side of Hawaii. cano which made me consent to a mode of riding
                    against which I have so strong a prejudice, but the result of the experiment is
                    that I shall visit Kilauea thus or not at all. The native women all ride
                    astride, on ordinary occasions in the full sacks, or holukus, and on gala days in the pau, the gay, winged dress which I described in writing from
                    Honolulu. A great many of the foreign ladies on Hawaii have adopted the Mexican
                    saddle also, for greater security to themselves and ease to their horses, on the
                    steep and perilous bridle-tracks, but they wear full Turkish trowsers and
                    jauntily-made dresses reaching to the ankles.
                It appears that Hilo is free from the universally admitted nuisance of morning
                    calls. The hours are simple—eight o'clock breakfasts, one o'clock dinners, six
                    o'clock suppers. If people want anything with you, they come at any hour of the
                    day, but if they only wish to be sociable, the early evening is the recognized
                    time for “calling.” After supper, when the day's work is done, people take their
                    lanterns and visit each other, either in the verandahs or in the cheerful
                    parlours which open upon them. There are no door-bells, or solemn announcements
                    by servants of visitors' names, or “not-at-homes.” If people are in their
                    parlours, it is presumed that they receive their friends. Several pleasant
                    people came in this evening. They seem to take great interest in two ladies
                    going to the volcano without an escort, but no news has been received from it
                    lately, and I fear that it is not very active as no glare is visible to-night.
                    Mr. Thompson, the pastor of the small foreign congregation here, called on me. He is a very agreeable,
                    accomplished man, and is acquainted with Dr. Holland and several of my New
                    England friends. He kindly brought his wife's riding-costume for my trip to
                    Kilauea. The Rev. Titus Coan, one of the first and most successful missionaries
                    to Hawaii, also called. He is a tall, majestic-looking man, physically well
                    fitted for the extraordinary exertions he has undergone in mission work, and
                    intellectually also, I should think, for his face expresses great mental
                    strength, and nothing of the weakness of a sanguine enthusiast. He has admitted
                    about 12,000 persons into the Christian Church. He is the greatest authority on
                    volcanoes on the islands, and his enthusiastic manner and illuminated
                    countenance as he spoke of Kilauea, have raised my expectations to the highest
                    pitch. We are prepared for to-morrow, having engaged a native named Upa, who boasts a little English, as our guide. He
                    provides three horses and himself for three days for the sum of thirty
                    dollars.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER V.
                
                    VOLCANO OF KILAUEA, Jan. 31.
                
                BRUISED aching bones, strained muscles, and overwhelming
                    fatigue, render it hardly possible for me to undergo the physical labour of
                    writing, but in spirit I am so elated with the triumph of success, and so
                    thrilled by new sensations, that though I cannot communicate the incommunicable,
                    I want to write to you while the impression of Kilauea is fresh, and by “the
                    light that never was on sea or shore.”
                By eight yesterday morning our preparations were finished, and Miss Karpe, whose
                    conversance with the details of travelling I envy, mounted her horse on her own
                    side-saddle, dressed in a short grey waterproof, and a broad-brimmed Leghorn hat
                    tied so tightly over her ears with a green veil as to give it the look of a
                    double spout. The only pack her horse carried was a bundle of cloaks and shawls,
                    slung together with an umbrella on the horn of her saddle. Upa, who was most
                    picturesquely got up in the native style with garlands of flowers round his hat
                    and throat, carried our saddle-bags on the peak of his saddle, a bag with
                    bananas, bread, and a bottle of tea on the horn, and a canteen of water round
                    his waist. I had on my coarse Australian hat which serves the double purpose of
                    sunshade and umbrella, Mrs. Thompson's riding
                    costume, my great rusty New Zealand boots, and my blanket strapped behind a very
                    gaily ornamented brass-bossed demi-pique
                    Mexican saddle, which one of the missionary's daughters had lent me. It has a
                    horn in front, a low peak behind, large wooden stirrups with leathern flaps the
                    length of the stirrup-leathers, to prevent the dress from coming in contact with
                    the horse, and strong guards of hide which hang over and below the stirrup, and
                    cover it and the foot up to the ancles, to prevent the feet or boots from being
                    torn in riding through the bush. Each horse had four fathoms of tethering rope
                    wound several times round his neck. In such fashion must all travelling be done
                    on Hawaii, whether by ladies or gentlemen.
                Upa supplied the picturesque element, we the grotesque. The morning was moist and
                    unpropitious looking. As the greater part of the thirty miles has to be
                    travelled at a foot's-pace the guide took advantage of the soft grassy track
                    which leads out of Hilo, to go off at full gallop, a proceeding which made me at
                    once conscious of the demerits of my novel way of riding. To guide the horse and
                    to clutch the horn of the saddle with both hands were clearly incompatible, so I
                    abandoned the first as being the least important. Then my feet either slipped
                    too far into the stirrups and were cut, or they were jerked out; every corner
                    was a new terror, for at each I was nearly pitched off on one side, and when at
                    last Upa stopped, and my beast stopped without consulting my wishes, only a
                    desperate grasp of mane and tethering rope saved me from going over his head. At
                    this 
                        ridi-
                        ridiculous
                     culous moment we came upon a bevy of
                    brown maidens swimming in a lakelet by the roadside, who increased my confusion
                    by a chorus of laughter. How fervently I hoped that the track would never admit
                    of galloping again!
                Hilo fringes off with pretty native houses, kalo patches and mullet ponds, and in
                    about four miles the track, then formed of rough hard lava, and not more than 24
                    inches wide, enters a forest of the densest description, a burst of true
                    tropical jungle. I could not have imagined anything so perfectly beautiful,
                    nature seemed to riot in the production of wonderful forms, as if the moist
                    hot-house air encouraged her in lavish excesses. Such endless variety, such
                    depths of green, such an impassable and altogether inextricable maze of forest
                    trees, ferns, and lianas! There were palms, breadfruit trees, ohias, eugenias, candle-nuts of immense size,
                        Koa (acacia) bananas, noni, bamboos, papayas, (Carica papaya) guavas,
                        ti trees (Cordyline terminalis),
                    tree-ferns, climbing ferns, parasitic ferns, and ferns themselves the prey of
                    parasites of their own species. The lianas were there in profusion climbing over
                    the highest trees, and entangling them, with stems varying in size from those as
                    thick as a man's arm to those as slender as whipcord, binding all in an
                    impassable network, and hanging over our heads in rich festoons or tendrils
                    swaying in the breeze. There were trailers, ie
                    (Freycinetia scandens) with heavy knotted stems, as thick as a frigate's
                    stoutest hawser, coiling up to the tops of tall ohias with tufted leaves like yuccas, and crimson spikes of gaudy blossom. The shining festoons of the
                    yam and the graceful trailers of the mailé
                    (Alyxia Olivaeformis), a sweet scented vine, from which the natives make
                    garlands, and glossy leaved climbers hung from tree to tree, and to brighten
                    all, huge morning glories of a heavenly blue opened a thousand blossoms to the
                    sun as if to give a tenderer loveliness to the forest. Here trees grow and fall,
                    and nature covers them where they lie with a new vegetation which altogether
                    obliterates their hasty decay. It is four miles of beautiful and inextricable
                    confusion, untrodden by human feet except on the narrow track. “Of every tree in
                    this garden thou mayest freely eat,” and no serpent or noxious thing trails its
                    hideous form through this Eden.
                It was quite intoxicating, so new, wonderful, and solemn withal, that I was sorry
                    when we emerged from its shady depths upon a grove of cocoanut trees and the
                    glare of day. Two very poor-looking grass huts, with a ragged patch of
                    sugar-cane beside them, gave us an excuse for half an hour's rest. An old woman
                    in a red sack, much tattooed, with thick short grey hair bristling on her head,
                    sat on a palm root, holding a nude brown child; a lean hideous old man, dressed
                    only in a malo, leaned against its stem, our
                    horses with their highly miscellaneous gear were tethered to a fern stump, and
                    Upa, the most picturesque of the party, served out tea. He and the natives
                    talked incessantly, and from the frequency with which the words “wahine haole” (foreign woman) occurred, the subject
                    of their conversation was obvious. Upa has taken up the notion from something Mr. S— said, that I am a “high chief,” and
                    related to Queen Victoria, and he was doubtlessly imposing this fable on the
                    people. In spite of their poverty and squalor, if squalor is a term which can be
                    applied to aught beneath these sunny skies, there was a kindliness about them
                    which they made us feel, and the aloha with
                    which they parted from us had a sweet friendly sound.
                From this grove we travelled as before in single file over an immense expanse of
                    lava of the kind called pahoehoe, or satin
                    rock, to distinguish it from the a-a, or
                    jagged, rugged, impassable rock. Savants all use these terms in the absence of
                    any equally expressive in English. The pahoehoe extends in the Hilo direction
                    from hence about twenty-three miles. It is the cooled and arrested torrent of
                    lava which in past ages has flowed towards Hilo from Kilauea. It lies in
                    hummocks, in coils, in rippled waves, in rivers, in huge convolutions, in pools
                    smooth and still, and in caverns which are really bubbles. Hundreds of square
                    miles of the island are made up of this and nothing more. A very frequent aspect
                    of pahoehoe is the likeness on a magnificent scale of a thick coat of cream
                    drawn in wrinkling folds to the side of a milk-pan. This lava is all grey, and
                    the greater part of its surface is slightly roughened. Wherever this is not the
                    case the horses slip upon it as upon ice.
                Here I began to realize the universally igneous origin of Hawaii, as I had not
                    done among the finely disintegrated lava of Hilo. From the hard black rocks
                    which border the sea, to the loftiest mountain dome or peak, every stone, atom of dust, and foot of fruitful or
                    barren soil bears the Plutonic mark. In fact, the island has been raised heap on
                    heap, ridge on ridge, mountain on mountain, to nearly the height of Mont Blanc,
                    by the same volcanic forces which are still in operation here, and may still add
                    at intervals to the height of the blue dome of Mauna Loa, of which we caught
                    occasional glimpses above the clouds. Hawaii is actually at the present time
                    being built up from the ocean, and this great sea of pahoehoe is not to be
                    regarded as a vindictive eruption, bringing desolation on a fertile region, but
                    as an architectural and formative process.
                There is no water, except a few deposits of rain-water in holes, but the moist
                    air and incessant showers have aided nature to mantle this frightful expanse
                    with an abundant vegetation, principally ferns of an exquisite green, the most
                    conspicuous being the Sadleria, the Gleichenia Hawaiiensis, a running wire-like
                    fern, and the exquisite Microlepia tenuifolia, dwarf guava, with its white
                    flowers resembling orange flowers in odour, and ohelos (Vaccinium reticulatum), with their red and white berries,
                    and a profusion of small-leaved ohias
                    (Metrosideros polymorpha), with their deep crimson tasselled flowers, and their
                    young shoots of bright crimson, relieved the monotony of green. These crimson
                    tassels deftly strung on thread or fibres, are much used by the natives for
                    their leis , or garlands. The ti tree (Cordyline terminalis) which abounds also
                    on the lava, is most valuable. They cook their food wrapped up in its leaves,
                    the porous root when baked, has the taste and texture of molasses candy, and when distilled yields a spirit, and the
                    leaves form wrappings for fish, hard poi, and
                    other edibles. Occasionally a clump of tufted coco-palms, or of the beautiful
                    candle-nut rose among the smaller growths. To our left a fringe of palms marked
                    the place where the lava and the ocean met, while, on our right, we were seldom
                    out of sight of the dense timber belt, with its fringe of tree-ferns and
                    bananas, which girdles Mauna Loa.
                The track, on the whole, is a perpetual upward scramble; for, though the ascent
                    is so gradual, that it is only by the increasing coolness of the atmosphere that
                    the increasing elevation is denoted, it is really nearly 4,000 feet in thirty
                    miles. Only strong, sure-footed, well-shod horses can undertake this journey,
                    for it is a constant scramble over rocks, going up or down natural steps, or
                    cautiously treading along ledges. Most of the track is quite legible owing to
                    the vegetation having been worn off the lava, but the rock itself hardly shows
                    the slightest abrasion.
                Upa had indicated that we were to stop for rest at the “Half Way House;” and, as
                    I was hardly able to sit on my horse owing to fatigue, I consoled myself by
                    visions of a comfortable sofa and a cup of tea. It was with real dismay that I
                    found the reality to consist of a grass hut, much out of repair, and which, bad
                    as it was, was locked. Upa said we had ridden so slowly that it would be dark
                    before we reached the volcano, and only allowed us to rest on the grass for
                    half-an-hour. He had frequently reiterated “Half Way House, you wear spur;” and,
                    on our remounting, he buckled on my foot a heavy rusty Mexican spur, with jingling ornaments and rowels an
                    inch and a half long. These horses are so accustomed to be jogged with these
                    instruments that they won't move without them. The prospect of five hours more
                    riding looked rather black, for I was much exhausted, and my shoulders and
                    knee-joints were in severe pain. Miss K.'s horse showed no other appreciation of
                    a stick with which she belaboured him than flourishes of his tail, so, for a
                    time, he was put in the middle, that Upa might add his more forcible
                    persuasions, and I rode first and succeeded in getting my lazy animal into the
                    priestly amble known at home as “a butter and eggs trot,” the favourite
                    travelling pace, but this not suiting the guide's notion of progress, he
                    frequently rushed up behind with a torrent of Hawaiian, emphasized by heavy
                    thumps on my horse's back, which so sorely jeopardised my seat on the animal,
                    owing to his resenting the interference by kicking, that I “dropped astern” for
                    the rest of the way, leaving Upa to belabour Miss K.'s steed for his
                    diversion.
                The country altered but little, only the variety of trees gave place to the
                        ohia alone, with its sombre foliage. There
                    were neither birds nor insects, and the only travellers we encountered in the
                    solitude compelled us to give them a wide berth, for they were a drove of half
                    wild random cattle, led by a lean bull of hideous aspect, with crumpled horns.
                    Two picturesque native vaccheros on mules accompanied them, and my flagging
                    spirits were raised by their news that the volcano was quite active. The owner
                    of these cattle knows that he has 10,000 head, and may have a great many more.
                    They are shot for their hides by men who make
                    shooting and skinning them a profession, and, near settlements, the owners are
                    thankful to get two cents a pound for sirloin and rump-steaks. These, and great
                    herds which are actually wild and ownerless upon the mountains, are a degenerate
                    breed, with some of the worst peculiarities of the Texas cattle, and are the
                    descendants of those which Vancouver placed on the islands and which were under
                        Tabu for ten years. They destroy the old
                    trees by gnawing the bark, and render the growth of young ones impossible.
                As it was getting dark we passed through a forest strip, where tree-ferns from
                    twelve to eighteen feet in height, and with fronds from five to seven feet long,
                    were the most attractive novelties. As we emerged, “with one stride came the
                    dark,” a great darkness, a cloudy night, with neither moon nor stars, and the
                    track was further obscured by a belt of ohias.
                    There were five miles of this, and I was so dead from fatigue and want of food,
                    that I would willingly have lain down in the bush in the rain. I most
                    heartlessly wished that Miss K. were tired too, for her voice, which seemed
                    tireless as she rode ahead in the dark, rasped upon my ears. I could only keep
                    on my saddle by leaning on the horn, and my clothes were soaked with the heavy
                    rain. “A dreadful ride,” one and another had said, and I then believed them. It
                    seemed an awful solitude full of mystery. Often, I only knew that my companions
                    were ahead by the sparks struck from their horse's shoes.
                It became a darkness which could be felt.
                
                “Is that possibly a pool of blood?” I thought in horror, as a rain puddle glowed
                    crimson on the track. Not that indeed! A glare brighter and redder than that
                    from any furnace suddenly lightened the whole sky, and from that moment
                    brightened our path. There sat Miss K. under her dripping umbrella as
                    provokingly erect as when she left Hilo. There Upa jogged along, huddled up in
                    his poncho, and his canteen shone red. There the ohia trees were relieved blackly against the sky. The scene
                    started out from the darkness with the suddenness of a revelation. We felt the
                    pungency of sulphurous fumes in the still night air. A sound as of the sea broke
                    on our ears, rising and falling as if breaking on the shore, but the ocean was
                    thirty miles away. The heavens became redder and brighter, and when we reached
                    the crater-house at eight, clouds of red vapour mixed with flame were curling
                    ceaselessly out of a huge invisible pit of blackness, and Kilauea was in all its
                    fiery glory. We had reached the largest active volcano in the world, the “place
                    of everlasting burnings.”
                Rarely was light more welcome than that which twinkled from under the verandah of
                    the lonely crater-house into the rainy night. The hospitable landlord of this
                    unique dwelling lifted me from my horse, and carried me into a pleasant room
                    thoroughly warmed by a large wood fire, and I hastily retired to bed to spend
                    much of the bitterly cold night in watching the fiery vapours rolling up out of
                    the infinite darkness, and in dreading the descent into the crater. The heavy
                    clouds were crimson with the reflection, and soon after midnight jets of flame of a most peculiar colour leapt fitfully
                    into the air, accompanied by a dull throbbing sound.
                This morning was wet and murky as many mornings are here, and the view from the
                    door was a blank up to ten o'clock, when the mist rolled away and revealed the
                    mystery of last night, the mighty crater whose vast terminal wall is only a few
                    yards from this house. We think of a volcano as a cone. This is a different
                    thing. The abyss, which really is at a height of nearly 4,000 feet on the flank
                    of Mauna Loa, has the appearance of a great pit on a rolling plain. But such a
                    pit! It is nine miles in circumference, and its lowest area, which not long ago
                    fell about 300 feet, just as ice on a pond falls when the water below it is
                    withdrawn, covers six square miles. The depth of the crater varies from 800 to
                    1,100 feet in different years, according as the molten sea below is at flood or
                    ebb. Signs of volcanic activity are present more or less throughout its whole
                    depth, and for some distance round its margin, in the form of steam cracks, jets
                    of sulphurous vapour, blowing cones, accumulating deposits of acicular crystals
                    of sulphur, &c., and the pit itself is constantly rent and shaken by
                    earthquakes. Grand eruptions occur at intervals with circumstances of
                    indescribable terror and dignity, but Kilauea does not limit its activity to
                    these outbursts, but has exhibited its marvellous phenomena through all known
                    time in a lake or lakes in the southern part of the crater three miles from this
                    side.
                This lake, the Hale-mau-mau, or House of Everlasting Fire of the Hawaiian
                    mythology, the abode of the dreaded goddess Pele, is approachable with safety
                    except during an eruption. The spectacle,
                    however, varies almost daily, and at times the level of the lava in the pit
                    within a pit is so low, and the suffocating gases are evolved in such enormous
                    quantities, that travellers are unable to see anything. There had been no news
                    from it for a week, and as nothing was to be seen but a very faint bluish vapour
                    hanging round its margin, the prospect was not encouraging.
                When I have learned more about the Hawaiian volcanoes, I shall tell you more of
                    their phenomena, but to-night I shall only write to you my first impressions of
                    what we actually saw on this January 31st. My highest expectations have been
                    infinitely exceeded, and I can hardly write soberly after such a spectacle,
                    especially while through the open door I see the fiery clouds of vapour from the
                    pit rolling up into a sky, glowing as if itself on fire.
                We were accompanied into the crater by a comical native guide, who mimicked us
                    constantly, our Hilo guide, who “makes up” a little English, a native woman from
                    Kona, who speaks imperfect English poetically, and her brother who speaks none.
                    I was conscious that we foreign women with our stout staffs and grotesque dress
                    looked like caricatures, and the natives, who have a keen sense of the
                    ludicrous, did not conceal that they thought us so.
                The first descent down the terminal wall of the crater is very precipitous, but
                    it and the slope which extends to the second descent are thickly covered with
                        ohias, ohelos (a species of whortleberry), sadlerias, polypodiums,
                        silver grass, and a great variety of
                    bulbous plants many of which bore clusters of berries of a brilliant turquoise
                    blue. The “beyond” looked terrible. I could not help clinging to these vestiges
                    of the kindlier mood of nature in which she sought to cover the horrors she had
                    wrought. The next descent is over rough blocks and ridges of broken lava, and
                    appears to form part of a break which extends irregularly round the whole
                    crater, and which probably marks a tremendous subsidence of its floor. Here the
                    last apparent vegetation was left behind, and the familiar earth. We were in a
                    new Plutonic region of blackness and awful desolation, the accustomed sights and
                    sounds of nature all gone. Terraces, cliffs, lakes, ridges, rivers, mountain
                    sides, whirlpools, chasms of lava surrounded us, solid, black, and shining, as
                    if vitrified, or an ashen grey, stained yellow with sulphur here and there, or
                    white with alum. The lava was fissured and upheaved everywhere by earthquakes,
                    hot underneath, and emitting a hot breath.
                After more than an hour of very difficult climbing we reached the lowest level of
                    the crater, pretty nearly a mile across, presenting from above the appearance of
                    a sea at rest, but on crossing it we found it to be an expanse of waves and
                    convolutions of ashy-coloured lava, with huge cracks filled up with black
                    iridescent rolls of lava, only a few weeks old. Parts of it are very rough and
                    ridgy, jammed together like field ice, or compacted by rolls of lava which may
                    have swelled up from beneath, but the largest part of the area presents the
                    appearance of huge coiled hawsers, the ropy formation of the lava rendering the illusion almost perfect. These are
                    riven by deep cracks which emit hot sulphurous vapours. Strange to say, in one
                    of these, deep down in that black and awful region, three slender metamorphosed
                    ferns were growing, three exquisite forms, the fragile heralds of the great
                    forest of vegetation, which probably in coming years will clothe this pit with
                    beauty. Truly they seemed to speak of the love of God. On our right there was a
                    precipitous ledge, and a recent flow of lava had poured over it, cooling as it
                    fell into columnar shapes as symmetrical as those of Staffa. It took us a full
                    hour to cross this deep depression, and as long to master a steep hot ascent of
                    about 400 feet, formed by a recent lava-flow from Hale-mau-mau into the basin.
                    This lava hill is an extraordinary sight—a flood of molten stone, solidifying as
                    it ran down the declivity, forming arrested waves, streams, eddies, gigantic
                    convolutions, forms of snakes, stems of trees, gnarled roots, crooked
                    water-pipes, all involved and contorted on a gigantic scale, a wilderness of
                    force and dread. Over one steeper place the lava had run in a fiery cascade
                    about 100 feet wide. Some had reached the ground, some had been arrested midway,
                    but all had taken the aspect of stems of trees. In some of the crevices I picked
                    up a quantity of very curious filamentose lava, known as “Pelé's hair.” It
                    resembles coarse spun glass, and is of a greenish or yellowish-brown colour. In
                    many places the whole surface of the lava is covered with this substance seen
                    through a glazed medium. During eruptions, when fire-fountains play to a great
                    height, and drops of lava are thrown in all 
                        direc-
                        directions
                     tions, the wind spins them out in
                    clear green or yellow threads two or three feet long, which catch and adhere to
                    projecting points.
                As we ascended, the flow became hotter under our feet, as well as more porous and
                    glistening. It was so hot that a shower of rain hissed as it fell upon it. The
                    crust became increasingly insecure, and necessitated our walking in single file
                    with the guide in front, to test the security of the footing. I fell through
                    several times, and always into holes full of sulphurous steam, so malignantly
                    acid that my strong dog-skin gloves were burned through as I raised myself on my
                    hands.
                We had followed a lava-flow for thirty miles up to the crater's brink, and now we
                    had toiled over recent lava for three hours, and by all calculation were close
                    to the pit, yet there was no smoke or sign of fire, and I felt sure that the
                    volcano had died out for once for our especial disappointment. Indeed, I had
                    been making up my mind for disappointment since we left the crater-house, in
                    consequence of reading seven different accounts, in which language was exhausted
                    in describing Kilauea.
                Suddenly, just above, and in front of us, gory drops were tossed in air, and
                    springing forwards we stood on the brink of Hale-mau-mau, which was about 35
                    feet below us. I think we all screamed, I know we all wept, but we were
                    speechless, for a new glory and terror had been added to the earth. It is the
                    most unutterable of wonderful things. The words of common speech are quite
                    useless. It is unimaginable, indescribable, a sight to remember for ever, a
                    sight which at once took 
                        posses-
                        possession
                     sion of every faculty of sense and
                    soul, removing one altogether out of the range of ordinary life. Here was the
                    real “bottomless pit”—the “fire which is not quenched”—“the place of hell”—“the
                    lake which burneth with fire and brimstone”—the “everlasting burnings”—the fiery
                    sea whose waves are never weary. There were groanings, rumblings, and
                    detonations, rushings, hissings, and splashings, and the crashing sound of
                    breakers on the coast, but it was the surging of fiery waves upon a fiery shore.
                    But what can I write! Such words as jets, fountains, waves, spray, convey some
                    idea of order and regularity, but here there was none. The inner lake, while we
                    stood there, formed a sort of crater within itself, the whole lava sea rose
                    about three feet, a blowing cone about eight feet high was formed, it was never
                    the same two minutes together. And what we saw had no existence a month ago, and
                    probably will be changed in every essential feature a month hence.
                What we did see was one irregularly-shaped lake, possibly 500 feet wide at its
                    narrowest part and nearly half a mile at its broadest, almost divided into two
                    by a low bank of lava, which extended nearly across it where it was narrowest,
                    and which was raised visibly before our eyes. The sides of the nearest part of
                    the lake were absolutely perpendicular, but nowhere more than 40 feet high; but
                    opposite to us on the far side of the larger lake they were bold and craggy, and
                    probably not less than 150 feet high. On one side there was an expanse entirely
                    occupied with blowing cones, and jets of steam or vapour. The lake has been
                    known to sink 400 feet, and a month ago it
                    overflowed its banks. The prominent object was fire in motion, but the surface
                    of the double lake was continually skinning over for a second or two with a
                    cooled crust of a lustrous grey-white, like frosted silver, broken by jagged
                    cracks of a bright rose-colour. The movement was nearly always from the sides to
                    the centre, but the movement of the centre itself appeared independent and
                    always took a southerly direction. Before each outburst of agitation there was
                    much hissing and a throbbing internal roaring, as of imprisoned gases. Now it
                    seemed furious, demoniacal, as if no power on earth could bind it, then playful
                    and sportive, then for a second languid, but only because it was accumulating
                    fresh force. On our arrival eleven fire fountains were playing joyously round
                    the lakes, and sometimes the six of the nearer lake ran together in the centre
                    to go wallowing down in one vortex, from which they reappeared bulging upwards,
                    till they formed a huge cone 30 feet high, which plunged downwards in a
                    whirlpool only to reappear in exactly the previous number of fountains in
                    different parts of the lake, high leaping, raging, flinging themselves upwards.
                    Sometimes the whole lake, abandoning its usual centripetal motion, as if
                    impelled southwards, took the form of mighty waves, and surging heavily against
                    the partial barrier with a sound like the Pacific surf, lashed, tore, covered
                    it, and threw itself over it in clots of living fire. It was all confusion,
                    commotion, force, terror, glory, majesty, mystery, and even beauty. And the
                    colour! “Eye hath not seen” it! Molten metal has not that crimson gleam, nor
                    blood that living light! Had I not seen this I
                    should never have known that such a colour was possible.
                The crust perpetually wrinkled, folded over, and cracked, and great pieces were
                    drawn downwards to be again thrown up on the crests of waves. The eleven
                    fountains of gory fire played the greater part of the time, dancing round the
                    lake with a strength of joyousness which was absolute beauty. Indeed after the
                    first half hour of terror had gone by, the beauty of these jets made a profound
                    impression upon me, and the sight of them must always remain one of the most
                    fascinating recollections of my life. During three hours, the bank of lava which
                    almost divided the lakes rose considerably, owing to the cooling of the spray as
                    it dashed over it, and a cavern of considerable size was formed within it, the
                    roof of which was hung with fiery stalactites, more than a foot long. Nearly the
                    whole time the surges of the further lake taking a southerly direction, broke
                    with a tremendous noise on the bold craggy cliffs which are its southern
                    boundary, throwing their gory spray to a height of fully forty feet. At times an
                    overhanging crag fell in, creating a vast splash of fire and increased
                    commotion.
                Almost close below us there was an intermittent jet of lava, which kept cooling
                    round what was possibly a blow-hole forming a cone with an open top, which when
                    we first saw it was about six feet high on its highest side, and about as many
                    in diameter. Up this cone or chimney heavy jets of lava were thrown every second
                    or two, and cooling as they fell over its edge, raised it rapidly before our
                    eyes. Its fiery interior, and the singular sound with which the lava was vomited up, were very awful. There
                    was no smoke rising from the lake, only a faint blue vapour which the wind
                    carried in the opposite direction. The heat was excessive. We were obliged to
                    stand the whole time, and the soles of our boots were burned, and my ear and one
                    side of my face were blistered. Although there was no smoke from the lake
                    itself, there was an awful region to the westward, of smoke and sound, and
                    rolling clouds of steam and vapour whose phenomena it was not safe to
                    investigate, where the blowing cones are, whose fires last night appeared
                    stationary. We were able to stand quite near the margin, and look down into the
                    lake, as you look into the sea from the deck of a ship, the only risk being that
                    the fractured ledge might give way.
                Before we came away, a new impulse seized the lava. The fire was thrown to a
                    great height; the fountains and jets all wallowed together; new ones appeared,
                    and danced joyously round the margin, then converging towards the centre they
                    merged into one glowing mass, which upheaved itself pyramidally and disappeared
                    with a vast plunge. Then innumerable billows of fire dashed themselves into the
                    air, crashing and lashing, and the lake dividing itself recoiled on either side,
                    then hurling its fires together and rising as if by upheaval from below, it
                    surged over the temporary rim which it had formed, passing downwards in a slow
                    majestic flow, leaving the central surface swaying and dashing in fruitless
                    agony as if sent on some errand it failed to accomplish.
                
                Farewell, I fear for ever, to the glorious Hale-mau-mau, the grandest type of
                    force that the earth holds! “Break, break, break,” on through the coming years, 
                        “No more by thee my steps shall be,
                        No more again for ever!”
                    
                It seemed a dull trudge over the black and awful crater, and strange, like
                    half-forgotten sights of a world with which I had ceased to have aught to do,
                    were the dwarf tree-ferns, the lilies with their turquoise clusters, the crimson
                    myrtle blossoms, and all the fair things which decked the precipice up which we
                    slowly dragged our stiff and painful limbs. Yet it was but the exchange of a
                    world of sublimity for a world of beauty, the “place of hell,” for the bright
                    upper earth, with its endless summer, and its perennial foliage, blossom, and
                    fruitage.
                Since writing the above I have been looking over the “Volcano Book,” which
                    contains the observations and impressions of people from all parts of the world.
                    Some of these are painstaking and valuable as showing the extent and rapidity of
                    the changes which take place in the crater, but there is an immense quantity of
                    flippant rubbish, and would-be wit, in which “Madam Pelé,” invariably occurs,
                    this goddess, who was undoubtedly one of the grandest of heathen mythical
                    creations, being caricatured in pencil and pen and ink, under every ludicrous
                    aspect that can be conceived. Some of the entries are brief and absurd, “Not
                    much of a fizz,” “a grand splutter,” “Madam Pelé in the dumps,” and so forth.
                    These generally have English signatures. The American wit is far racier, but
                    depends mainly on the profane use of certain
                    passages of scripture, a species of wit which is at once easy and disgusting.
                    People are all particular in giving the precise time of the departure from Hilo
                    and arrival here, “making good time” being a thing much admired on Hawaii, but
                    few can boast of more than three miles an hour. It is wonderful that people can
                    parade their snobbishness within sight of Hale-mau-mau.
                This inn is a unique and interesting place. Its existence is strikingly
                    precarious, for the whole region is in a state of perpetual throb from
                    earthquakes, and the sights and sounds are gruesome and awful both by day and
                    night. The surrounding country steams and smokes from cracks and pits, and a
                    smell of sulphur fills the air. They cook their kalo in a steam apparatus of nature's own work just behind the
                    house, and every drop of water is from a distillery similarly provided. The inn
                    is a grass and bamboo house, very beautifully constructed without nails. It is a
                    longish building with a steep roof divided inside by partitions which run up to
                    the height of the walls. There is no ceiling. The joists which run across are
                    concealed by wreaths of evergreens, from among which peep out here and there
                    stars on a blue ground. The door opens from the verandah into a centre room with
                    a large open brick fire place, in which a wood fire is constantly burning, for
                    at this altitude the temperature is cool. Some chairs, two lounges, small
                    tables, and some books and pictures on the walls give a look of comfort, and
                    there is the reality of comfort in perfection. Our sleeping-place, a neat room
                    with a matted floor opens from this, and on the
                    other side there is a similar room, and a small eating-room with a grass
                    cookhouse beyond, from which an obliging old Chinaman who persistently calls us
                    “sir,” brings our food. We have had for each meal, tea, preserved milk, coffee,
                        kalo, biscuits, butter, potatoes, goats'
                    flesh, and ohelos. The charge is five dollars
                    a day, but everything except the potatoes and ohelos has to be brought twenty or thirty miles on mules' backs.
                    It is a very pretty picturesque house both within and without, and stands on a
                    natural lawn of brilliant but unpalatable grass, surrounded by a light fence
                    covered with a small trailing double rose. It is altogether a most magical
                    building in the heart of a formidable volcanic wilderness. Mr. Gilman, our host,
                    is a fine picturesque looking man, half Indian, and speaks remarkably good
                    English, but his wife, a very pretty native woman, speaks none, and he attends
                    to us entirely himself.
                A party of native travellers rainbound are here, and the native women are sitting
                    on the floor stringing flowers and berries for leis. One very attractive-looking young woman, refined by
                    consumption, is lying on some blankets, and three native men are smoking by the
                    fire. Upa attempts conversation with us in broken English, and the others laugh
                    and talk incessantly. My inkstand, pen, and small handwriting amuse them very
                    much. Miss K., the typical American travelling lady, who is encountered
                    everywhere from the Andes to the Pyramids, tireless, with an indomitable energy,
                    Spartan endurance, and a genius for attaining everything, and myself, a limp,
                        ragged, shoeless wretch, complete the
                    group, and our heaps of saddles, blankets, spurs, and gear tell of real
                    travelling, past and future. It is a most picturesque sight by the light of the
                    flickering fire, and the fire which is unquenchable burns without.
                About 300 yards off there is a sulphur steam vapour-bath, highly recommended by
                    the host as a panacea for the woeful aches, pains, and stiffness produced by the
                    six-mile scramble through the crater, and I groaned and limped down to it: but
                    it is a truly spasmodic arrangement, singularly independent of human control,
                    and I have not the slightest doubt that the reason why Mr. Gilman obligingly
                    remained in the vicinity was, lest I should be scalded or blown to atoms by a
                    sudden freak of Kilauea, though I don't see that he was capable of preventing
                    either catastrophe! A slight grass shed has been built over a sulphur steam
                    crack, and within this there is a deep box with a sliding lid and a hole for the
                    throat, and the victim is supposed to sit in this and be steamed. But on this
                    occasion the temperature was so high, that my hand, which I unwisely
                    experimented upon, was immediately peeled. In order not to wound Mr. Gilman's
                    feelings, which are evidently sensitive on the subject of this irresponsible
                    contrivance, I remained the prescribed time within the shed, and then managed to
                    limp a little less, and go with him to what are called the Sulphur Banks, on
                    which sulphurous vapour is perpetually depositing the most exquisite acicular
                    sulphur crystals; these, as they aggregate, take entrancing forms, like the
                    featherwork produced by the “frost-fall” in
                    Colorado, but, like it, they perish with a touch, and can only be seen in the
                    wonderful laboratory where they are formed.
                In addition to the natives before mentioned, there is an old man here who has
                    been a bullock-hunter on Hawaii for forty years, and knows the island
                    thoroughly. In common with all the residents I have seen, he takes an intense
                    interest in volcanic phenomena, and has just been giving us a thrilling account
                    of the great eruption in 1868, when beautiful Hilo was threatened with
                    destruction. Three weeks ago, he says, a profound hush fell on Kilauea, and the
                    summit crater of Mauna Loa became active, and amidst throbbings, rumblings, and
                    earthquakes, broke into such magnificence that the light was visible 100 miles
                    at sea, a burning mountain 13,750 feet high! The fires after two days died out
                    as suddenly, and from here we can see the great dome-like top, snowcapped under
                    the stars, serene in an eternal winter.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER VI.
                
                    HILO. HAWAII, Feb. 3.
                
                MY plans are quite overturned. I was to have ridden with the
                    native mail-carrier to the north of the island to take the steamer for Honolulu,
                    but there are freshets in the gulches on the road, making the ride unsafe. There
                    is no steamer from Hilo for three weeks, and in the meantime Mr. and Mrs. S.
                    have kindly consented to receive me as a boarder; and I find the people,
                    scenery, and life so charming, that I only regret my detention on Mrs. Dexter's
                    account. I am already rested from the great volcano trip.
                We left Kilauea at seven in the morning of the 1st Feb. in a pouring rain. The
                    natives decorated us with leis of turquoise
                    and coral berries, and of crimson and yellow ohia blossoms. The saddles were wet, the crater was blotted out
                    by mist, water dripped from the trees, we splashed through pools in the rocks,
                    the horses plunged into mud up to their knees, and the drip, drip, of vertical,
                    earnest, tepid, tropical rain accompanied us nearly to Hilo. Upa and Miss K.
                    held umbrellas the whole way, but I required both hands for holding on to the
                    horse whenever he chose to gallop. As soon as we left the crater-house Upa
                    started over the grass at full speed, my horse of course followed, and my feet
                    being jerked out of the stirrups, I found
                    myself ignominiously sitting on the animal's back behind the saddle, and nearly
                    slid over his tail, before, by skilful efforts, I managed to scramble over the
                    peak back again, when I held on by horn and mane until the others stopped.
                    Happily I was last, and I don't think they saw me. Upa amused me very much on
                    the way; he insists that I am “a high chief.” He said a good deal about Queen
                    Victoria, whose virtues seem well known here “Good Queen make good people,” he
                    said, “English very good!” He asked me how many chiefs we had, and supposing him
                    to mean hereditary peers, I replied, over 500. “Too many, too many!” he answered
                    emphatically—“too much chief eat up people!” He asked me if all people were good
                    in England, and I was sorry to tell him that this was very far from being the
                    case. He was incredulous, or seemed so out of flattery, and said, “You good
                    Queen, you Bible long time, you good!” I was surprised to find how much he knew
                    of European politics, of the liberation of Italy, and the Franco-German war. He
                    expressed a most orthodox horror of the Pope, who, he said, he knew from his
                    Bible was the “Beast!” He said, “I bring band and serenade for good Queen sake,”
                    but this has not come off yet.
                We straggled into Hilo just at dusk, thoroughly wet, jaded, and satisfied, but
                    half-starved, for the rain had converted that which should have been our lunch
                    into a brownish pulp of bread and newspaper, and we had subsisted only on some
                    half-ripe guavas. After the black desolation of Kilauea, I realized more fully
                    the beauty of Hilo, as it appeared in the
                    gloaming. The rain had ceased, cool breezes rustled through the palm-groves and
                    sighed through the funereal foliage of the pandanus. Under thick canopies of the
                    glossy breadfruit and banana, groups of natives were twining garlands of roses
                    and ohia blossoms. The lights of happy foreign homes flashed from under
                    verandahs festooned with passion-flowers, and the low chant, to me nearly
                    intolerable, but which the natives love, mingled with the ceaseless moaning of
                    the surf and the sighing of the breeze through the trees, and a heavy fragrance,
                    unlike the faint sweet odours of the north, filled the evening air. It was
                    delicious.
                I suffered intensely from pain and stiffness, and was induced to try a true
                    Hawaiian remedy, which is not only regarded as a cure for all physical ills, but
                    as the greatest of physical luxuries; i.e.
                    lomi-lomi. This is a compound of pinching,
                    pounding, and squeezing, and Moi Moi, the fine old Hawaiian nurse in this
                    family, is an adept in the art. She found out by instinct which were the most
                    painful muscles, and subjected them to a doubly severe pounding, laughing
                    heartily at my groans. However, I must admit that my arms and shoulders were
                    almost altogether relieved before the lomi-lomi was finished. The first act of courtesy to a stranger
                    in a native house is this, and it is varied in many ways. Now and then the
                    patient lies face downwards, and children execute a sort of dance upon his
                        spine.* Formerly, the chiefs, when
                    not engaged in active pursuits, exacted lomi-lomi as a constant service from their followers.
                “Reef Rovings.”
                
                A number of Hilo folk came in during the evening to inquire how we had sped, and
                    for news of the volcano. I think the proximity of Kilauea gives sublimity to
                    Hilo, and helps to lift conversation out of common-place ruts. It is no far-off
                    spectacle, but an immediate source of wonder and apprehension, for it rocks the
                    village with earthquakes, and renders the construction of stone houses and
                    plastered ceilings impossible. It rolls vast tidal waves with infinite
                    destruction on the coast, and of late years its fiery overflowings have twice
                    threatened this paradise with annihilation. Then there is the dead volcano of
                    Mauna Loa, from whose resurrection anything may be feared. Even last night a
                    false rumour that a light was to be seen on its summit brought everyone out, but
                    it was only an increased glare from the pit of Hale-mau-mau. It is most
                    interesting to be in a region of such splendid possibilities.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER VII.
                
                    HILO, HAWAII.
                
                THE white population here, which constitutes “society,” is very
                    small. There are two venerable missionaries “Father Coan” and “Father Lyman,”
                    the former pastor of a large native congregation, which, though much shrunken,
                    is not only self-sustaining, but contributes $1200 a year to foreign missions,
                    and the latter, though very old and frail, the indefatigable head of an
                    industrial school for native young men. Their houses combine the trimness of New
                    England, with the luxuriance of the tropics; they are cool retreats, embowered
                    among breadfruit, tamarind, and bamboo, through whose graceful leafage the blue
                    waters of the bay are visible. Innumerable exotics are domesticated round these
                    fair homesteads. Two of “Father Lyman's” sons are influential residents, one
                    being the Lieutenant-Governor of the island. Other sons of former missionaries
                    are settled here in business, and there are a few strangers who have been
                    attracted hither. Dr. Wetmore, formerly of the mission, is a typical New
                    Englander of the old orthodox school. It is pleasant to see him brighten into
                    almost youthful enthusiasm on the subject of Hawaiian ferns. My host, a genial,
                    social, intelligent American, is sheriff of Hawaii, postmaster, &c., and
                    with his charming wife (a missionary's
                    daughter), and some friends who live with them, make their large house a centre
                    of kindliness, friendliness, and hospitality. Mr. Thompson, pastor of the
                    foreign church, is a man of very liberal culture, as well as wide sympathies.
                    The lady principal of the Government school is a handsome, talented Vermont
                    girl, and besides being an immense favourite, well deserves her unusual and
                    lucrative position.
                There are hardly any young ladies, and very few young men, but plenty of rosy,
                    blooming children, who run about barefoot all the year. Besides the Hilo
                    residents, there are some planters' families within seven miles, who come in to
                    sewing circles, church, &c. There is a small class of reprobate white
                    men who have ostracized themselves by means of drink and bad morals, and are a
                    curse to the natives. The half whites, among whom “Bill Ragsdale” is the leading
                    spirit, are not numerous. Hilo has no carriage roads and no carriages: every one
                    must ride or travel in a litter. People are very kind to each other. Horses,
                    dresses, patterns, books, and articles of domestic use, are lent and borrowed
                    continually. The smallness of the society and the close proximity are too much
                    like a ship. People know everything about the details of each other's daily
                    life, income, and expenditure, and the day's doings of each member of the little
                    circle are matters for conversation. Indeed, were it not for the volcano and its
                    doings, conversation might degenerate into gossip. There is an immense deal of
                    personal talk; the wonder is that there is so little ill-nature. Not only is
                    what everybody does here common property, but
                    the sayings, doings, goings, comings, and purchases of every one in all the
                    other islands are common property also, made so by letters and oral
                    communication. It is all very amusing, and on the whole very kindly, and human
                    interests are always interesting; but it has its perilous side. They are very
                    kind to each other. There is no distress which is not alleviated. There is no
                    nurse, and in cases of sickness the ladies take it by turns to wait on the
                    sufferer by day and night for weeks, and even months. Such inevitable mutual
                    dependence of course promotes friendliness.
                The foreigners live very simply. The eating-rooms are used solely for eating, the
                    “parlours” are always cheerful and tasteful, and the bedrooms very pretty,
                    adorned with all manner of knick-knacks made by the ladies, who are
                    indescribably deft with their fingers. Light Manilla matting is used instead of
                    carpets. A Chinese man-cook, who leaves at seven in the evening, is the only
                    servant, except in one or two cases, where, as here, a native woman condescends
                    to come in during the day as a nurse. In the morning the ladies, in their fresh
                    pretty wrappers and ruffled white aprons, sweep and dust the rooms, and I never
                    saw women look more truly graceful and refined than they do, when engaged in the
                    plain prose of these domestic duties. They make all their own dresses, and when
                    any lady is busy and wants a dress in a hurry, two or three of them meet and
                    make it for her. I never saw people live such easy pleasant lives. They have
                    such good health, for one thing, partly no doubt because their domestic duties
                    give them wholesome exercise without pressing
                    upon them. They have abounding leisure for reading, music, choir practising,
                    drawing, fern-printing, fancy work, picnics, riding parties, and enjoy
                    sociability thoroughly. They usually ride in dainty bloomer costumes, even when
                    they don't ride astride. All the houses are pretty, and it takes little to make
                    them so in this climate. One novel fashion is to decorate the walls with
                    festoons of the beautiful fern Microlepia tenuifolia, which are renewed as soon
                    as they fade, and every room is adorned with a profusion of bouquets, which are
                    easily obtained where flowers bloom all the year. Many of the residents possess
                    valuable libraries, and these, with cabinets of minerals, volcanic specimens,
                    shells, and coral, with weapons, calabashes, ornaments, and cloth of native
                    manufacture, almost furnish a room in themselves. Some of the volcanic specimens
                    and the coral are of almost inestimable value, as well as of exquisite
                    beauty.
                The gentlemen don't seem to have near so much occupation as the ladies. There are
                    two stores on the beach, and at these and at the Court-house they aggregate, for
                    lack of club-house and exchange. Business is not here a synonym for hurry, and
                    official duties are light; so light, that in these morning hours I see the
                    governor, the sheriff, and the judge, with three other gentlemen, playing an
                    interminable croquet game on the Court-house lawn. They purvey gossip for the
                    ladies, and how much they invent, and how much they only circulate can never be
                    known!
                There is a large native population in the village, along the beach, and on the heights above the Wailiku
                    River. Frame houses with lattices, and grass houses with deep verandahs, peep
                    out everywhere from among the mangoes and bananas. The governess of Hawaii, the
                    Princess Keelikalani, has a house on the beach shaded by a large umbrella-tree
                    and a magnificent clump of bamboos, 70 feet in height. The native life with
                    which one comes constantly in contact, is very interesting.
                The men do whatever hard work is done in cultivating the kalo patches and pounding the kalo. This kalo, the Arum esculentum, forms the national diet. A
                    Hawaiian could not exist without his calabash of poi. The root is an object of the tenderest solicitude, from the
                    day it is planted until the hour when it is lovingly eaten. The eating of
                        poi seems a ceremony of profound meaning;
                    it is like the eating salt with an Arab, or a Masonic sign. The kalo root is an ovate oblong, as bulky as a
                    Californian beet, and it has large leaves, shaped like a broad arrow, of a
                    singularly bright green. The best kinds grow entirely in water. The patch is
                    embanked and frequently inundated, and each plant grows on a small hillock of
                    puddled earth. The cutting from which it grows is simply the top of the plant,
                    with a little of the tuber. The men stand up to their knees in water while
                    cultivating the root. It is excellent when boiled and sliced; but the
                    preparation of poi is an elaborate process.
                    The roots are baked in an underground oven, and are then laid on a slightly
                    hollowed board, and beaten with a stone pestle. It is hard work, and the men
                    don't wear any clothes while engaged in it. It is not a pleasant-looking operation. They often dip
                    their hands in a calabash of water to aid them in removing the sticky mass, and
                    they always look hot and tired. When it is removed from the board into large
                    calabashes, it is reduced to paste by the addition of water, and set aside for
                    two or three days to ferment. When ready for use it is either lilac or pink, and
                    tastes like sour bookbinders' paste. Before water is added, when it is in its
                    dry state, it is called paiai, or hard food,
                    and is then packed in ti leaves in 20 lb.
                    bundles for inland carriage, and is exported to the Guano Islands. It is a
                    prolific and nutritious plant. It is estimated that forty square feet will
                    support an Hawaiian for a year.
                The melon and kalo patches represent a certain
                    amount of spasmodic industry, but in most other things the natives take no
                    thought for the morrow. Why should they indeed? For while they lie basking in
                    the sun, without care of theirs, the cocoanut, the breadfruit, the yam, the
                    guava, the banana, and the delicious papaya,
                    which is a compound of a ripe apricot with a Cantaloupe melon, grow and ripen
                    perpetually. Men and women are always amusing themselves, the men with
                    surf-bathing, the women with making leis—both
                    sexes with riding, gossiping, and singing. Every man and woman, almost every
                    child, has a horse. There is a perfect plague of badly bred, badly developed,
                    weedy looking animals. The beach and the pleasant lawn above it are always
                    covered with men and women riding at a gallop, with bare feet, and stirrups
                    tucked between the toes. To walk even 200 yards seems considered a degradation. The people meet outside each others'
                    houses all day long, and sit in picturesque groups on their mats, singing,
                    laughing, talking, and quizzing the haoles, as
                    if the primal curse had never fallen. Pleasant sights of out-door cooking
                    gregariously carried on greet one everywhere. This style of cooking prevails all
                    over Polynesia. A hole in the ground is lined with stones, wood is burned within
                    it, and when the rude oven has been sufficiently heated, the pig, chicken,
                    breadfruit, or kalo, wrapped in ti leaves is put in, a little water is thrown on,
                    and the whole is covered up. It is a slow but sure process.
                Bright dresses, bright eyes, bright sunshine, music, dancing, a life without
                    care, and a climate without asperities, make up the sunny side of native life as
                    pictured at Hilo. But there are dark moral shadows, the population is shrinking
                    away, and rumours of leprosy are afloat, so that some of these fair homes may be
                    desolate ere long. However many causes for regret exist, one must not forget
                    that only forty years ago the people inhabiting this strip of land between the
                    volcanic wilderness and the sea were a vicious, sensual, shameless herd, that no
                    man among them, except their chiefs, had any rights, that they were harried and
                    oppressed almost to death, and had no consciousness of any moral obligations.
                    Now, order and external decorum at least, prevail. There is not a locked door in
                    Hilo, and nobody makes anybody else afraid.
                The people of Hawaii-nei are clothed and civilized in their habits; they have
                    equal rights; 6,500 of them have
                    kuleanas or freeholds, equable and enlightened
                    laws are impartially administered; wrong and oppression are unknown; they enjoy
                    one of the best administered governments in the world; education is universal,
                    and the throne is occupied by a liberal sovereign of their own race and
                    election.
                Few of them speak English. Their language is so easy that most of the foreigners
                    acquire it readily. You know how stupid I am about languages, yet I have already
                    picked up the names of most common things. There are only twelve letters, but
                    some of these are made to do double duty, as K is also T, and L is also R. The
                    most northern island of the group, Kauai, is as often pronounced as if it began
                    with a T, and Kalo is usually Taro. It is a very musical language. Each syllable
                    and word ends with a vowel, and there are none of our rasping and sibillant
                    consonants. In their soft phraseology our hard rough surnames undergo a
                    metamorphosis, as Fisk into Filikina, Wilson into Wilikina. Each vowel is
                    distinctly pronounced, and usually with the Italian sound. The volcano is
                    pronounced as if spelt Keel-ah-wee-ah, and Kauai as if Kah-wye-ee. The name
                    Owhyhee for Hawaii had its origin in a mistake, for the island was never
                    anything but Hawaii, pronounced Hah-wye-ee, but Captain Cook mistook the prefix
                    O, which is the sign of the nominative case, for a part of the word. Many of the
                    names of places, specially of those compounded with wai, water, are very musical; Wailuku, “water of destruction;”
                    Waialeale, “rippling water;” Waioli, “singing
                    water;” Waipio, “vanquished water;”
                    Kaiwailhae, “torn water.” Mauna, “mountain,” is a mere prefix, and though always
                    used in naming the two giants of the Pacific, Mauna Kea, and Mauna Loa, is
                    hardly ever applied to Hualalai, “the offspring of the shining sun;” or to
                    Haleakala on Maui, “the house of the sun.”
                I notice that the foreigners never use the English or botanical names of trees or
                    plants, but speak of ohias, ohelos, kukui
                    (candle-nut), lauhala (pandanus), pulu (tree fern), mamané, koa, &c. There
                    is one native word in such universal use that I already find I cannot get on
                    without it, pilikia. It means anything, from a
                    downright trouble to a slight difficulty or entanglement. “I'm in a pilikia,” or
                    “very pilikia,” or “pilikia!” A revolution would be “a pilikia.” The fact of the
                    late king dying without naming a successor was pre-eminently a pililia, and it
                    would be a serious pilikia if a horse were to lose a shoe on the way to Kilauea.
                        Hou-hou, meaning “in a huff,” I hear on
                    all sides; and two words, makai, signifying
                    “on the sea-side,” and mauka, “on the mountain
                    side.” These terms are perfectly intelligible out of doors, but it is puzzling
                    when one is asked to sit on “the mauka side of
                    the table.” The word aloha, in foreign use,
                    has taken the place of every English equivalent. It is a greeting, a farewell,
                    thanks, love, goodwill. Aloha looks at you
                    from tidies and illuminations, it meets you on the roads and at house-doors, it
                    is conveyed to you in letters, the air is full of it. “My aloha to you,” “he sends you his aloha,” “they desire their aloha.” It already represents to me all of kindness and goodwill
                    that language can express, and the convenience of it as compared with other phrases is, that it means exactly what the
                    receiver understands it to mean, and consequently, in all cases can be conveyed
                    by a third person. There is no word for “thank you.” Maikai “good,” is often useful in its place, and smiles supply
                    the rest. There are no words which express “gratitude” or “chastity,” or some
                    others of the virtues; and they have no word for “weather,” that which we
                    understand by “weather” being absolutely unknown.
                Natives have no surnames. Our volcano guide is Upa, or Scissors, but his wife and
                    children are anything else. The late king was Kamehameha, or the “lonely one.”
                    The father of the present king is called Kanaina, but the king's name is
                    Lunalilo, or “above all.” Nor does it appear that a man is always known by the
                    same name, nor that a name necessarily indicates the sex of its possessor. Thus,
                    in signing a paper the signature would be Hoapili kanaka, or Hoapili wahine,
                    according as the signer was man or woman. I remember that in my first letter I
                    fell into the vulgarism, initiated by the whaling crews, of calling the natives
                        Kanakas. This is universally but very
                    absurdly done, as Kanaka simply means man. If
                    an Hawaiian word is absolutely necessary, we might translate native and have
                        maole, pronounced maori, like that of the New Zealand aborigines. Kanaka is to me
                    decidedly objectionable, as conveying the idea of canaille.
                I had written thus far when Mr. Severance came in to say that a grand display of
                    the national sport of surf-bathing was going on, and a large party of us went
                    down to the beach for two hours to enjoy it. It is really a most exciting pastime, and in a rough sea requires
                    immense nerve. The surf-board is a tough plank shaped like a coffin lid, about
                    two feet broad, and from six to nine feet long, well oiled and cared for. It is
                    usually made of the erythrina, or the breadfruit tree. The surf was very heavy
                    and favourable, and legions of natives were swimming and splashing in the sea,
                    though not more than forty had their Papa-he-nalu, or “wave sliding boards,” with them. The men,
                    dressed only in malos, carrying their boards
                    under their arms, waded out from some rocks on which the sea was breaking, and,
                    pushing their boards before them, swam out to the first line of breakers, and
                    then diving down were seen no more till they re-appeared as a number of black
                    heads bobbing about like corks in smooth water half a mile from shore.
                What they seek is a very high roller, on the top of which they leap from behind,
                    lying face downwards on their boards. As the wave speeds on, and the bottom
                    strikes the ground, the top breaks into a huge comber. The swimmers but appeared
                    posing themselves on its highest edge by dexterous movements of their hands and
                    feet, keeping just at the top of the curl, but always apparently coming down
                    hill with a slanting motion. So they rode in majestically, always just ahead of
                    the breaker, carried shorewards by its mighty impulse at the rate of forty miles
                    an hour, yet seeming to have a volition of their own, as the more daring riders
                    knelt and even stood on their surf-boards, waving their arms and uttering
                    exultant cries. They were always apparently on the verge of engulfment by the
                    fierce breaker whose towering white crest was
                    ever above and just behind them, but just as one expected to see them dashed to
                    pieces, they either waded quietly ashore, or sliding off their boards, dived
                    under the surf, taking advantage of the undertow, and were next seen far out at
                    sea preparing for fresh exploits.
                The great art seems to be to mount the roller precisely at the right time, and to
                    keep exactly on its curl just before it breaks. Two or three athletes, who stood
                    erect on their boards as they swept exultingly shorewards, were received with
                    ringing cheers by the crowd. Many of the less expert failed to throw themselves
                    on the crest, and slid back into smooth water, or were caught in the combers
                    which were fully ten feet high, and after being rolled over and over,
                    ignominiously disappeared amidst roars of laughter, and shouts from the shore.
                    At first I held my breath in terror, thinking the creatures were smothered or
                    dashed to pieces, and then in a few seconds I saw the dark heads of the objects
                    of my anxiety bobbing about behind the rollers waiting for another chance. The
                    shore was thronged with spectators, and the presence of the élite of Hilo stimulated the swimmers to wonderful
                    exploits.
                These people are truly amphibious. Both sexes seem to swim by nature, and the
                    children riot in the waves from their infancy. They dive apparently by a mere
                    effort of the will. In the deep basin of the Wailuku River, a little below the
                    Falls, the maidens swim, float, and dive with garlands of flowers round their
                    heads and throats. The more furious and agitated the water is, the greater the
                    excitement, and the love of these watery exploits is not confined to the young. I saw great fat men with
                    their hair streaked with grey, balancing themselves on their narrow surf-boards,
                    and riding the surges shorewards with as much enjoyment as if they were in their
                    first youth. I enjoyed the afternoon thoroughly.
                Is it “always afternoon” here, I wonder? The sea was so blue, the sunlight so
                    soft, the air so sweet. There was no toil, clang, or hurry. People were all
                    holiday making (if that can be where there is no work), and enjoying themselves,
                    the surf-bathers in the sea, and hundreds of gaily-dressed men and women
                    galloping on the beach. It was so serene and tropical. I sympathize with those
                    who eat the lotus, and remain for ever on such enchanted shores.
                I am gaining health daily, and almost live in the open air. I have hired the
                    native policeman's horse and saddle, and with a Macgregor flannel riding
                    costume, which my kind friends have made for me, and a pair of jingling Mexican
                    spurs am quite Hawaiianised. I ride alone once or twice a day exploring the
                    neighbourhood, finding some new fern or flower daily, and abandon myself wholly
                    to the fascination of this new existence.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER VIII.
                
                    ONOMEA, HAWAII. JUDGE AUSTIN'S.
                
                MRS. A. has been ill for some time, and Mrs. S. her sister and
                    another friend “plotted” in a very “clandestine” manner that I should come here
                    for a few days in order to give her “a little change of society,” but I am quite
                    sure that under this they only veil a kind wish that I should see something of
                    plantation life. There is a plan, too, that I should take a five days' trip to a
                    remarkable valley called Waipio, but this is only a “castle in the air.”
                Mr. A. sent in for me a capital little lean rat of a horse which by dint of
                    spirit and activity managed to keep within sight of two large horses, ridden by
                    Mr. Thompson, and a very handsome young lady riding “cavalier fashion,” who
                    convoyed me out. Borrowed saddle-bags, and a couple of shingles for carrying
                    ferns formed my outfit, and were carried behind my saddle. It is a magnificent
                    ride here. The track crosses the deep, still, Wailuku River on a wooden bridge,
                    and then after winding up a steep hill, among native houses fantastically
                    situated, hangs on the verge of the lofty precipices which descend
                    perpendicularly to the sea, dips into tremendous gulches, loses itself in the
                    bright fern-fringed torrents which have cleft their way down from the mountains,
                    and at last emerges on the delicious height on
                    which this house is built.
                This coast looked beautiful from the deck of the Kilauea, but I am
                    now convinced that I have never seen anything so perfectly lovely as it is when
                    one is actually among its details. Onomea is 600 feet high, and every yard of
                    the ascent from Hilo brings one into a fresher and purer air. One looks up the
                    wooded, broken slopes to a wild volcanic wilderness and the snowy peaks of Mauna
                    Kea on one side, and on the other down upon the calm blue Pacific, wrinkled by
                    the sweet tradewind, till it blends in far-off loveliness with the still, blue,
                    sky; and heavy surges break on the reefs, and fritter themselves away on the
                    rocks, tossing their pure foam over ti and
                        lauhala trees, and the exquisite ferns and
                    trailers which mantle the cliffs down to the water's edge. Here a native house
                    stands, with passion-flowers clustering round its verandah, and the great
                    solitary red blossoms of the hibiscus flaming out from dark surrounding leafage,
                    and women in rose and green holukus, weaving
                    garlands, greet us with “Aloha”as we pass.
                    Then we come upon a whole cluster of grass houses under lauhalas and bananas. Then there is the sugar plantation of
                    Kaiwiki, with its patches of bright green cane, its flumes crossing the track
                    above our heads, bringing the cane down from the upland cane-fields to the
                    crushing-mill, and the shifting, busy scenes of the sugar-boiling season.
                Then the track goes down with a great dip, along which we slip and slide in the
                    mud to a deep broad stream. This is a most picturesque spot, the junction of two clear bright rivers, and a few native
                    houses and a Chinaman's store are grouped close by under some palms, with the
                    customary loungers on horseback, asking and receiving nuhou, or news, at the doors. Our accustomed horses leaped into a
                    ferry-scow provided by Government, worked by a bearded female of hideous aspect,
                    and leaped out on the other side to climb a track cut on the side of a
                    precipice, which would be steep to mount on one's own feet. There we met parties
                    of natives, all flower-wreathed, talking and singing, coming gaily down on their
                    sure-footed horses, saluting us with the invariable “Aloha.” Every now and then we passed native churches, with spires
                    painted white, or a native schoolhouse, or a group of scholars all ferns and
                    flowers. The greenness of the vegetation merits the term “dazzling.” We think
                    England green, but its colour is poor and pale as compared with that of tropical
                    Hawaii. Palms, candle-nuts, ohias, hibiscus,
                    were it not for their exceeding beauty, would almost pall upon one from their
                    abundance, and each gulch has its glorious entanglement of breadfruit, the
                    large-leaved ohia, or native apple, a species
                    of Eugenia (Eugenia Malaccensis), and the pandanus, with its aerial roots, all
                    looped together by large sky-blue convolvuli and the running fern, and is
                    marvellous with parasitic growths.
                The distracting beauty of this coast is what are called gulches—narrow deep
                    ravines or gorges, from 100 to 2,000 feet in depth, each with a series of
                    cascades from 10 to 1,800 feet in height. I dislike reducing their glories to
                    the baldness of figures, but the depth of these clefts (originally, probably,
                    the seams caused by fire torrents), cut and
                    worn by the fierce streams fed by the snows of Mauna Kea, and the rains of the
                    forest belt, cannot otherwise be expressed. The cascades are most truly
                    beautiful, gleaming white among the dark depths of foliage far away, and falling
                    into deep limpid basins, festooned and overhung with the richest and greenest
                    vegetation of this prolific climate, from the huge-leaved banana and shining
                    breadfruit to the most feathery of ferns and lycopodiums. Each gulch opens on a
                    velvet lawn close to the sea, and most of them have space for a few grass
                    houses, with cocoanut trees, bananas, and kalo
                    patches. There are sixty-nine of these extraordinary chasms within a distance of
                    thirty miles!
                I think we came through eleven, fording the streams in all but two. The descent
                    into some of them is quite alarming. You go down almost standing in your
                    stirrups, at a right angle with the horse's head, and up, grasping his mane to
                    prevent the saddle slipping. He goes down like a goat, with his bare feet,
                    looking cautiously at each step, sometimes putting out a foot and withdrawing it
                    again in favour of better footing, and sometimes gathering his four feet under
                    him and sliding or jumping. The Mexican saddle has great advantages on these
                    tracks, which are nothing better than ledges cut on the sides of precipices, for
                    one goes up and down not only in perfect security but without fatigue. I am
                    beginning to hope that I am not too old, as I feared I was, to learn a new mode
                    of riding, for my companions rode at full speed over places where I should have
                    picked my way carefully at a foot's pace; and my horse followed them,
                        galloping and stopping short at their
                    pleasure, and I successfully kept my seat, though not without occasional fears
                    of an ignominious downfall. I even wish that you could see me in my Rob Roy
                    riding dress, with leather belt and pouch, a lei of the orange seeds of the pandanus round my throat, jingling
                    Mexican spurs, blue saddle blanket, and Rob Roy blanket strapped on behind the
                    saddle!
                This place is grandly situated 600 feet above a deep cove, into which two
                    beautiful gulches of great size run, with heavy cascades, finer than Foyers at
                    its best, and a native village is picturesquely situated between the two. The
                    great white rollers, whiter by contrast with the dark deep water, come into the
                    gulch just where we forded the river, and from the ford a passable road made for
                    hauling sugar ascends to the house. The air is something absolutely delicious;
                    and the murmur of the rollers and the deep boom of the cascades are very
                    soothing. There is little rise or fall in the cadence of the surf anywhere on
                    the windward coast, but one even sound, loud or soft, like that made by a train
                    in a tunnel.
                We were kindly welcomed, and were at once “made at home.” Delicious phrase! the
                    full meaning of which I am learning on Hawaii, where, though everything has the
                    fascination of novelty, I have ceased to feel myself a stranger. This is a
                    roomy, rambling frame-house, with a verandah, and the door, as is usual here,
                    opens directly into the sitting-room. The stair by which I go to my room
                    suggests possibilities, for it has been removed three inches from the wall by an
                    earthquake, which also brought down the tall chimney of the boiling-house. Close
                        by there are small pretty frame-houses for
                    the overseer, bookkeeper, sugar boiler, and machinist; a store, the factory, a
                    pretty native church near the edge of the cliff, and quite a large native
                    village below. It looks green and bright, and the atmosphere is perfect, with
                    the cool air coming down from the mountains, and a soft breeze coming up from
                    the blue dreamy ocean. Behind the house the uplands slope away to the colossal
                    Mauna Kea. The actual, dense, impenetrable forest does not begin for a mile and
                    a half from the coast, and its broad dark belt, extending to a height of 4,000
                    feet, and beautifully broken, throws out into greater brightness the upward
                    glades of grass and the fields of sugar-cane.
                This is a very busy season, and as this is a large plantation there is an
                    appearance of great animation. There are five or six saddled horses usually
                    tethered below the house; and with overseers, white and coloured, and natives
                    riding at full gallop, and people coming on all sorts of errands, the hum of the
                    crushing-mill, the rush of water in the flumes, and the grind of the waggons
                    carrying cane, there is no end of stir.
                The plantations in the Hilo district enjoy special advantages, for by turning
                    some of the innumerable mountain streams into flumes the owners can bring a
                    great part of their cane and all their wood for fuel down to the mills without
                    other expense than the original cost of the woodwork. Mr. A. has 100 mules, but
                    the greater part of their work is ploughing and hauling the kegs of sugar down
                    to the cove, where in favourable weather they are put on board of a schooner for
                    Honolulu. This 
                        plan-
                        plantation
                     tation employs 185 hands, native and
                    Chinese, and turns out 600 tons of sugar a year. The natives are much liked as
                    labourers, being docile and on the whole willing; but native labour is hard to
                    get, as the natives do not like to work for a term unless obliged, and a
                    pernicious system of “advances” is practised. The labourers hire themselves to
                    the planters, in the case of natives usually for a year, by a contract which has
                    to be signed before a notary public. The wages are about eight dollars a month
                    with food, or eleven dollars without food, and the planters supply houses and
                    medical attendance. The Chinese are imported as coolies, and usually contract to
                    work for five years. As a matter of policy no less than of humanity the “hands”
                    are well treated; for if a single instance of injustice were perpetrated on a
                    plantation the factory might stand still the next year, for hardly a native
                    would contract to serve again.
                The Chinese are quiet and industrious, but smoke opium, and are much addicted to
                    gaming. Many of them save money, and, when their turn of service is over, set up
                    stores, or grow vegetables for money. Each man employed has his horse, and on
                    Saturday the hands form quite a cavalcade. Great tact, firmness, and knowledge
                    of human nature are required in the manager of a plantation. The natives are at
                    times disposed to shirk work without sufficient cause; the native lunas, or overseers, are not always reasonable, the
                    Chinamen and natives do not always agree, and quarrels and entanglements arise,
                    and everything is referred to the decision of the manager, who, besides all
                    things else, must know the exact amount of
                    work which ought to be performed, both in the fields and factory, and see that
                    it is done. Mr. A. is a keen, shrewd man of business, kind without being weak,
                    and with an eye on every detail of his plantations. The requirements are
                    endless. It reminds me very much of plantation life in Georgia in the old days
                    of slavery. I never elsewhere heard of so many headaches, sore hands, and other
                    trifling ailments. It is very amusing to see the attempts which the would-be
                    invalids make to lengthen their brief smiling faces into lugubriousness, and the
                    sudden relaxation into naturalness when they are allowed a holiday. Mr. A. comes
                    into the house constantly to consult his wife regarding the treatment of
                    different ailments.
                I have made a second tour through the factory, and am rather disgusted with sugar
                    making. “All's well that ends well,” however, and the delicate crystalline
                    result makes one forget the initial stages of the manufacture. The cane,
                    stripped of its leaves, passes from the flumes under the rollers of the
                    crushing-mill, where it is subjected to a pressure of five or six tons. One
                    hundred pounds of cane under this process yield up from sixty-five to
                    seventy-five pounds of juice. This juice passes, as a pale green cataract, into
                    a trough, which conducts it into a vat, where it is dosed with quicklime to
                    neutralize its acid, and is then run off into large heated metal vessels. At
                    this stage the smell is abominable, and the turbid fluid, with a thick scum upon
                    it, is simply disgusting. After a preliminary heating and skimming it is passed
                    off into iron pans, several in a row, and boiled and skimmed, and ladled from one to the other till it reaches the
                    last, which is nearest to the fire, and there it boils with the greatest
                    violence, seething and foaming, bringing all the remaining scum to the surface.
                    After the concentration has proceeded far enough, the action of the heat is
                    suspended, and the reddish-brown, oily-looking liquid is drawn into the
                    vacuum-pan till it is about a third full; the concentration is completed by
                    boiling the juice in vacuo at a temperature of 150°, and even lower. As the
                    boiling proceeds, the sugar boiler tests the contents of the pan by withdrawing
                    a few drops, and holding them up to the light on his finger; and, by certain
                    minute changes in their condition, he judges when it is time to add an
                    additional quantity. When the pan is full, the contents have thickened into the
                    consistency of thick gruel by the formation of minute crystals, and are then
                    allowed to descend into an heater, where they are kept warm till they can be run
                    into “forms” or tanks, where they are allowed to granulate. The liquid, or
                    molasses, which remains after the first crystallization is returned to the
                    vacuum pan and reboiled, and this reboiling of the drainings is repeated two or
                    three times, with a gradually decreasing result in the quality and quantity of
                    the sugar. The last process, which is used for getting rid of the treacle, is a
                    most beautiful one. The mass of sugar and treacle is put into what are called
                    “centrifugal pans,” which are drums about three feet in diameter and two feet
                    high, which make about 1,000 revolutions a minute. These have false interiors of
                    wire gauze, and the mass is forced violently against their sides by centrifugal
                        action, and they let the treacle whirl
                    through, and retain the sugar crystals, which lie in a dry heap in the
                    centre.
                The cane is being flumed in with great rapidity, and the factory is working till
                    late at night. The cane from which the juice has been expressed, called “trash,”
                    is dried and used as fuel for the furnace which supplies the steam power. The
                    sugar is packed in kegs, and a cooper and carpenter, as well as other mechanics,
                    are employed.
                Sugar is now the great interest of the islands. Christian missions and whaling
                    have had their day, and now people talk sugar. Hawaii thrills to the news of a
                    cent up or a cent down in the American market. All the interests of the kingdom
                    are threatened by this one, which, because it is grievously depressed and
                    staggers under a heavy import duty in the American market, is now clamorous in
                    some quarters for “annexation,” and in others for a “reciprocity treaty,” which
                    last means the cession of the Pearl River lagoon on Oahu, with its adjacent
                    shores, to America, for a Pacific naval station. There are 200,000 acres of
                    productive soil on the islands, of which only a fifteenth is under cultivation,
                    and of this large area 150,000 is said to be specially adapted for sugar
                    culture. Herein is a prospective Utopia, and people are always dreaming of the
                    sugar-growing capacities of the belt of rich disintegrated lava which slopes
                    upwards from the sea to the bases of the mountains. Hitherto, sugar growing has
                    been a very disastrous speculation, and few of
                    the planters at present do more than keep their heads above water.
                Were labour plentiful and the duties removed, fortunes might be made, for the
                    soil yields on an average about three times as much as that of the State of
                    Louisiana. Two and a half tons to the acre is a common yield, five tons a
                    frequent one, and instances are known of the slowly matured cane of a high
                    altitude yielding as much as seven tons! The magnificent climate makes it a very
                    easy crop to grow. There is no brief harvest time with its rush, hurry, and
                    frantic demand for labour, nor frost to render necessary the hasty cutting of an
                    immature crop. The same number of hands is kept on all the year round. The
                    planters can plant pretty much when they please, or not plant at all for two or
                    three years, the only difference in the latter case being that the rattoons which spring up after the cutting of the
                    former crop are smaller in bulk. They can cut when they please, whether the cane
                    be tasselled or not, and they can plant, cut, and grind at one time!
                It is a beautiful crop in any stage of growth, especially in the tasselled stage.
                    Every part of it is useful—the cane pre-eminently—the leaves as food for horses
                    and mules, and the tassels for making hats. Here and elsewhere there is a plate
                    of cut cane always within reach, and the children chew it incessantly. I fear
                    you will be tired of sugar, but I find it more interesting than the wool and
                    mutton of Victoria and New Zealand, and it is a most important item of the
                    wealth of this toy kingdom, which last year
                    exported 16,995,402 lbs. of sugar and 192,105 gallons of molasses.* With regard to molasses, the Government
                    prohibits the manufacture of rum, so the planters are deprived of a fruitful
                    source of profit. It is really difficult to tear myself from the subject of
                    sugar, for I see the cane waving in the sun while I write, and hear the busy hum
                    of the crushing-mill.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
                
                    
                        * In 1873 the
                            export of sugar reached a total of upwards of 23,000,000 lbs.
                    
                
            
            
                
                LETTER IX.
                
                    ONOMEA, HAWAII.
                
                THIS is such a pleasant house and household, Mrs. A. is as
                    bright as though she were not an invalid, and her room, except at meals, is the
                    gathering-place of the family. The four boys are bright, intelligent beings, out
                    of doors, barefooted, all day, and with a passion for horses, of which their
                    father possesses about thirty. The youngest, Ephy, is the brightest child for
                    three years old that I ever saw, but absolutely crazy about horses and mules. He
                    talks of little else, and is constantly asking me to draw horses on his slate.
                    He is a merry, audacious little creature, but came in this evening quite
                    subdued. The sun was setting gloriously behind the forest-covered slopes,
                    flooding the violet distances with a haze of gold, and, in a low voice, he said,
                    “I've seen God.”
                There is the usual Chinese cook, who cooks and waits and looks good-natured, and
                    of course has his own horse, and his wife, a most minute Chinese woman, comes in
                    and attends to the rooms and to Mrs. A., and sews and mends. She wears her
                    native dress—a large, stiff, flat cane hat, like a tray, fastened firmly on or
                    to her head a scanty loose frock of blue denim down to her knees, wide trousers
                    of the same down to her ancles, and slippers. Her hair is knotted up; she always
                    wears silver 
                        arm-
                        armlets
                     lets, and would not be seen without
                    the hat for anything. There is not a bell in this or any house on the islands,
                    and the bother of servants is hardly known, for the Chinamen do their work like
                    automatons, and disappear at sunset. In a land where there are no carpets, no
                    fires, no dust, no hot water needed, no windows to open and shut—for they are
                    always open—no further service is really required. It is a simple arcadian life,
                    and people live more happily than any that I have seen elsewhere. It is very
                    cheerful to live among people whose faces are not soured by the east wind, or
                    wrinkled by the worrying effort to “keep up appearances,” which deceive nobody;
                    who have no formal visiting, but real sociability; who regard the light manual
                    labour of domestic life as a pleasure, not a thing to be ashamed of; who are
                    contented with their circumstances, and have leisure to be kind, cultured, and
                    agreeable; and who live so tastefully, though simply, that they can at any time
                    ask a passing stranger to occupy the simple guest chamber, or share the simple
                    meal, without any of the soul-harassing preparations which often make the
                    exercise of hospitality a thing of terror to people in the same circumstances at
                    home.
                People will ask you, “What is the food?” We have everywhere bread and biscuit
                    made of California flour, griddle cakes with molasses, and often cracked wheat,
                    butter not very good, sweet potatoes, boiled kalo, Irish potatoes, and poi.
                    I have not seen fish on any table except at the Honolulu Hotel, or any meat but
                    beef, which is hard and dry as compared with ours. We have China or Japan tea, and island coffee. Honolulu is
                    the only place in which intoxicants are allowed to be sold; and I have not seen
                    beer, wine, or spirits in any house. Bananas are an important article of diet,
                    and sliced guavas, eaten with milk and sugar, are very good. The cooking is
                    always done in detached cook houses, in and on American cooking-stoves.
                As to clothing. I wear my flannel riding dress for both riding and walking, and a
                    black silk at other times. The resident ladies wear prints and silks, and the
                    gentlemen black cloth or dark tweed suits. Flannel is not required, neither are
                    puggarees or white hats or sunshades at any season. The changes of temperature
                    are very slight, and there is no chill when the sun goes down. The air is always
                    like balm; the rain is tepid and does not give cold; in summer it may be three
                    or four degrees warmer. Windows and doors stand open the whole year. A blanket
                    is agreeable at night, but not absolutely necessary. It is a truly delightful
                    climate and mode of living, with such an abundance of air and sunshine. My
                    health improves daily, and I do not consider myself an invalid.
                Between working, reading aloud, talking, riding, and “loafing,” I have very
                    little time for letter writing; but I must tell you of a delightful fern-hunting
                    expedition on the margin of the forest that I took yesterday, accompanied by Mr.
                    Thompson and the two elder boys. We rode in the mauka direction, outside cane ready for cutting, with silvery
                    tassels gleaming in the sun, till we reached the verge of the forest, where an
                    old trail was nearly obliterated by a trailing matted grass four feet high, and thousands of woody ferns, which conceal
                    streams, holes, and pitfalls. When further riding was impossible, we tethered
                    our horses and proceeded on foot. We were then 1,500 feet above the sea by the
                    aneroid barometer, and the increased coolness was perceptible. The mercury is
                    about four degrees lower for each 1,000 feet of ascent rather more than this
                    indeed on the windward side of the islands. The forest would be quite
                    impenetrable were it not for the remains of wood-hauling trails, which, though
                    grown up to the height of my shoulders, are still passable.
                Underneath the green maze, invisible streams, deep down, made sweet music,
                    sweeter even than the gentle murmur of the cool breeze among the trees. The
                    forest on the volcano track, which I thought so tropical and wonderful a short
                    time ago, is nothing for beauty to compare with this “garden of God.” I wish I
                    could describe it, but cannot; and as you know only our pale, small-leaved
                    trees, with their uniform green, I cannot say that it is like this or that. The
                    first line of a hymn, “Oh, Paradise! oh, Paradise!” rings in my brain, and the
                    rustic exclamation we used to hear when we were children, “Well, I never!”
                    followed by innumerable notes of admiration, seems to exhaust the whole
                    vocabulary of wonderment. The former cutting of some trees gives atmosphere, and
                    the tumbled nature of the ground shows everything to the best advantage. There
                    were openings over which huge candle-nuts, with their pea-green and silver
                    foliage, spread their giant arms, and the light played through their branches on
                    an infinite variety of ferns. There were
                    groves of bananas and plantains with shiny leaves 8 feet long, like enormous
                    hart's-tongue, the bright-leaved noni, the
                    dark-leaved koa, the mahogany of the Pacific;
                    the great glossy-leaved Eugenia—a forest tree as large as our largest elms; the
                    small-leaved ohia, its rose-crimson flowers
                    making a glory in the forests, and its young shoots of carmine red vying with
                    the colouring of the New England fall; and the strange lauhala hung its stiff drooping plumes, which creak in the
                    faintest breeze; and the superb breadfruit hung its untempting fruit, and from
                    spreading guavas we shook the ripe yellow treasures, scooping out the inside,
                    all juicy and crimson, to make drinking cups of the rind; and there were trees
                    that had surrendered their own lives to a conquering army of vigorous parasites
                    which had clothed their skeletons with an unapproachable and indistinguishable
                    beauty, and over trees and parasites the tender tendrils of great mauve morning
                    glories trailed and wreathed themselves, and the strong, strangling stems of the
                    wound themselves round the tall ohias, which
                    supported their quaint yucca-like spikes of leaves fifty feet from the
                    ground.
                There were some superb plants of the glossy tropical looking bird's-nest fern, or
                        Aspleniumn Nidus, which makes its home on
                    the stems and branches of trees, and brightens the forest with its great shining
                    fronds. I got a specimen from a koa tree. The
                    plant had nine fronds, each one measuring from 4 feet 1 inch to 4 feet 7 inches
                    in length, and from 7 to 9 inches in breadth. There were some very fine
                    tree-ferns (Cibotium Chamissoi?), two of which being accessible, we measured, and
                    found them seventeen and twenty feet high, their fronds eight feet long, and
                    their stems four feet ten inches in circumference three feet from the ground.
                    They showed the most various shades of green, from the dark tint of the mature
                    frond, to the pale pea green of those which were just uncurling themselves. I
                    managed to get up into a tree for the first time in my life to secure specimens
                    of two beautiful parasitic ferns (Polypodium tamariscinum and P.
                    Hymenophylloides?). I saw for the first time, too, a lygodium and the large
                    climbing potato-fern (Polypodium spectrum), very like a yam in the distance, and
                    the Vittaria elongata, whose long grassy fronds adorn almost every tree. The
                    beautiful Microlepia tenuifolia abounded, and there were a few plants of the
                    loveliest fern I ever saw (Trichomanes meifolium), in specimens of which I
                    indulged sparingly, and almost grudgingly, for it seemed unfitting that a form
                    of such perfect beauty should be mummied in a herbarium. There was one fern in
                    profusion, with from 90 to 130 pair of pinnæ on each frond; and the fronds,
                    though often exceeding five feet in length, were only two inches broad
                    (Nephrolepis pectinata). There were many prostrate trees, which nature has
                    entirely covered with choice ferns, specially the rough stem of the tree-fern. I
                    counted seventeen varieties on one trunk, and on the whole obtained thirty-five
                    specimens for my collection.
                The forest soon became completely impenetrable, the beautiful Gleichenia
                    Hawaiiensis forming an impassable network over
                    all the undergrowth. And, indeed, without this it would have been risky to make
                    further explorations, for often masses of wonderful matted vegetation sustained
                    us temporarily over streams six or eight feet below, whose musical tinkle alone
                    warned us of our peril. I shall never again see anything so beautiful as this
                    fringe of the impassable timber belt. I enjoyed it more than anything I have yet
                    seen; it was intoxicating, my eyes were “satisfied with seeing.” It was a dream,
                    a rapture, this maze of form and colour, this entangled luxuriance, this
                    bewildering beauty, through which we caught bright glimpses of a heavenly sky
                    above, while far away, below glade and lawn, shimmered in surpassing loveliness
                    the cool blue of the Pacific. To me, with my hatred of reptiles and insects, it
                    is not the least among the charms of Hawaii, that these glorious entanglements
                    and cool damp depths of a redundant vegetation give shelter to nothing of
                    unseemly shape and venomous proboscis or fang. Here, in cool, dreamy, sunny
                    Onomea, there are no horrid, drumming, stabbing, mosquitos as at Honolulu, to
                    remind me of what I forget sometimes, that I am not in Eden.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
                
                    
                        NOTE.-Throughout these letters the botanical names
                            given are only those which are current on the Islands. Those specimens
                            of ferns which survived the rough usage which befel them, are to be seen
                            in the Herbarium of the Botanical Garden at Oxford, and have been named
                            and classified by my cousin, Professor Lawson.
                    
                
            
            
                
                LETTER X.
                
                    WAIPIO VALLEY, HAWAII.
                
                THERE is something fearful in the isolation of this valley,
                    open at one end to the sea, and walled in on all others by palis or precipices, from 1,000 to 2,000 feet in
                    height, over the easiest of which hangs the dizzy track, which after trailing
                    over the country for sixty difficult miles, connects Waipio with the little
                    world of Hilo. The evening is very sombre, and darkness comes on early between
                    these high walls. I am in a native house in which not a word of English is
                    spoken, and Deborah, among her own people, has returned with zest to the
                    exclusive use of her own tongue. This is more solitary than solitude, and tired
                    as I am with riding and roughing it, I must console myself with writing to you.
                    The natives, after staring and giggling for some time, took this letter out of
                    my hand, with many exclamations, which, Deborah tells me, are at the rapidity
                    and minuteness of my writing. I told them the letter was to my sister, and they
                    asked if I had your picture. They are delighted with it, and it is going round a
                    large circle assembled without. They see very few foreign women here, and are
                    surprised that I have not brought a foreign man with me.
                There was quite a bustle of small preparations before we left Onomea. Deborah was much excited, and I was
                    not less so, for it is such a complete novelty to take a five days' ride alone
                    with natives. D. is a very nice native girl of seventeen, who speaks English
                    tolerably, having been brought up by Mr. and Mrs. Austin. She was lately married
                    to a white man employed on the plantation. Mr. A. most kindly lent me a
                    favourite mule, but declined to state that she would not kick, or buck, or turn
                    obstinate, or lie down in the water, all which performances are characteristic
                    of mules. She has, however, as he expected, behaved as the most righteous of her
                    species. Our equipment was a matter for some consideration, as I had no
                    waterproof; but eventually I wore my flannel riding dress, and carried my plaid
                    in front of the saddle. My saddle-bags, which were behind, contained besides our
                    changes of clothes, a jar of Liebig's essence of beef, some potted beef, a tin
                    of butter, a tin of biscuits, a tin of sardines, a small loaf, and some roast
                    yams. Deborah looked very piquante in a
                    bloomer dress of dark blue, with masses of shining hair in natural ringlets
                    falling over the collar, mixing with her lei
                    of red rose-buds. She rode a powerful horse, of which she has much need, as this
                    is the most severe road on horses on Hawaii, and it takes a really good animal
                    to come to Waipio and go back to Hilo.
                We got away at seven in bright sunshine, and D.'s husband accompanied us the
                    first mile to see that our girths and gear were all right. It was very slippery,
                    but my mule deftly gathered her feet under her, and slid when she could not walk. From Onomea to the place
                    where we expected to find the guide, we kept going up and down the steep sides
                    of ravines, and scrambling through torrents till we reached a deep and most
                    picturesque gulch, with a primitive school-house at the bottom, and some
                    grass-houses clustering under palms and papayas, a valley scene of endless ease and perpetual afternoon.
                    Here we found that D.'s uncle, who was to have been our guide, could not go,
                    because his horse was not strong enough, but her cousin volunteered his escort,
                    and went away to catch his horse, while we tethered ours and went into the
                    school-house.
                This reminded me somewhat of the very poorest schools connected with the
                    Edinburgh Ladies' Highland School Association, but the teacher had a remarkable
                    paucity of clothing, and he seemed to have the charge of his baby, which, much
                    clothed, and indeed much muffled, lay on the bench beside him. For there were
                    benches, and a desk, and even a blackboard and primers down in the deep wild
                    gulch, where the music of living waters, and the thunderous roll of the Pacific,
                    accompanied the children's tuneless voices as they sang an Hawaiian hymn. I
                    shall remember nothing of the scholars but rows of gleaming white teeth, and
                    splendid brown eyes. I thought both teacher and children very apathetic. There
                    were lamentably few, though the pretty rigidly enforced law, which compels all
                    children between the ages of six and fifteen to attend school for forty weeks of
                    the year, had probably gathered together all the children of the district. They
                    all wore coloured chemises and leis of flowers. Outside, some natives presented us
                    with some ripe papayas.
                Mounting again, we were joined by two native women, who were travelling the
                    greater part of the way hither, and this made it more cheerful for D. The elder
                    one had nothing on her head but her wild black hair, and she wore a black
                        holuku, a lei of the orange seeds of the pandanus, orange trousers and big
                    spurs strapped on her bare feet. A child of four, bundled up in a black poncho,
                    rode on a blanket behind the saddle, and was tied to the woman's waist, by an
                    orange shawl. The younger woman, who was very pretty, wore a sailor's hat,
                        leis of crimson ohia blossoms round her hat and throat, a black holuku, a crimson poncho, and one spur, and held up
                    a green umbrella whenever it rained.
                We were shortly joined by Kaluna, the cousin, on an old, big, wall-eyed,
                    bare-tailed, raw-boned horse, whose wall-eyes contrived to express mingled
                    suspicion and fear, while a flabby, pendant, lower lip, conveyed the impression
                    of complete abjectness. He looked like some human beings who would be vicious if
                    they dared, but the vice had been beaten out of him long ago, and only the fear
                    remained. He has a raw suppurating sore under the saddle, glueing the blanket to
                    his lean back, and crouches when he is mounted. Both legs on one side look
                    shorter than on the other, giving a crooked look to himself and his rider, and
                    his bare feet are worn thin as if he had been on lava. I rode him for a mile
                    yesterday, and when he attempted a convulsive canter, with three short steps and
                    a stumble in it, his abbreviated off-legs made
                    me feel as if I were rolling over on one side. Kaluna beats him the whole time
                    with a heavy stick; but except when he strikes him most barbarously about his
                    eyes and nose, he only cringes, without quickening his pace. When I rode him
                    mercifully the true hound nature came out. The sufferings of this wretched
                    animal have been the great drawback on this journey. I have now bribed Kaluna
                    with as much as the horse is worth to give him a month's rest, and long before
                    that time I hope the owl-hawks will be picking his bones.
                The horse has come before the rider, but Kaluna is no nonentity. He is a very
                    handsome youth of sixteen, with eyes which are remarkable, even in this land of
                    splendid eyes, a straight nose, a very fine mouth, and beautiful teeth, a mass
                    of wavy, almost curly hair, and a complexion not so brown as to conceal the
                    mantling of the bright southern blood in his cheeks. His figure is lithe,
                    athletic, and as pliable as if he were an invertebrate animal, capable of
                    unlimited doublings up and contortions, to which his thin white shirt and blue
                    cotton trousers are no impediment. He is almost a complete savage; his movements
                    are impulsive and uncontrolled, and his handsome face looks as if it belonged to
                    a half-tamed creature out of the woods. He talks loud, laughs incessantly,
                    croons a monotonous chant, which sounds almost as heathenish as tom-toms, throws
                    himself out of his saddle, hanging on by one foot, lingers behind to gather
                    fruits, and then comes tearing up, beating his horse over the ears and nose,
                    with a fearful yell and a prolonged sound like
                    har-r-r-ouche, striking my mule and threatening to overturn me as
                    he passes me on the narrow track. He is the most thoroughly careless and
                    irresponsible being I ever saw, reckless about the horses, reckless about
                    himself, without any manners or any obvious sense of right and propriety. In his
                    mouth this musical tongue becomes as harsh as the speech of a cocatoo or parrot.
                    His manner is familiar. He rides up to me, pokes his head under my hat, and
                    says, interrogatively, “Cold!” by which I understand that the poor boy is
                    shivering himself. In eating he plunges his hand into my bowl of fowl, or
                    snatches half my biscuit. Yet I daresay he means well, and I am thoroughly
                    amused with him, except when he maltreats his horse.
                It is a very strange life going about with natives, whose ideas, as shown by
                    their habits, are, to say the least of it, very peculiar. Deborah speaks English
                    fairly, having been brought up by white people, and is a very nice girl. But
                    were she one of our own race I should not suppose her to be more than eleven
                    years old, and she does not seem able to understand my ideas on any subject,
                    though I can be very much interested and amused with hearing hers.
                We had a perfect day until the middle of the afternoon. The dimpling Pacific was
                    never more than a mile from us as we kept the narrow track in the long green
                    grass, and on our left the blunt snow-patched peaks of Mauna Kea rose from the
                    girdle of forest, looking so delusively near that I fancied a two-hours' climb
                    would take us to his lofty summit. The track for twenty-six miles is just in and out of gulches, from 100 to 800 feet
                    in depth, all opening on the sea, which sweeps into them in three booming
                    rollers. The candle-nut or kukui (aleurites
                    triloba) tree, which on the whole predominates, has leaves of a rich deep green
                    when mature, which contrast beautifully with the flaky silvery look of the
                    younger foliage. Some of the shallower gulches are filled exclusively with this
                    tree, which in growing up to the light to within 100 feet of the top, presents a
                    mass and density of leafage quite unique, giving the gulch the appearance as if
                    billows of green had rolled in and solidified there. Each gulch has some
                    specialty of ferns and trees, and in such a distance as sixty miles they vary
                    considerably with the variations of soil, climate, and temperature. But
                    everywhere the rocks, trees, and soil are covered and crowded with the most
                    exquisite ferns and mosses, from the great tree-fern, whose bright fronds light
                    up the darker foliage, to the lovely maidenhair and graceful selaginellas which
                    are mirrored in pools of sparkling water. Everywhere, too, the great blue
                    morning glory opened to a heaven not bluer than itself.
                The descent into the gulches is always solemn. You canter along a bright breezy
                    upland, and are suddenly arrested by a precipice, and from the depths of a
                    forest abyss a low plash or murmur rises, or a deep bass sound, significant of
                    water which must be crossed, and one reluctantly leaves the upper air to plunge
                    into heavy shadow, and each experience increases one's apprehensions concerning
                    the next. Though in some gulches the kukui
                    preponderates, in others the lauhala whose
                    aërial roots support it in otherwise impossible positions, and in others the sombre ohia, yet there were some grand clefts in which nature has mingled
                    her treasures impartially, and out of cool depths of ferns rose the feathery
                    coco-palm, the glorious breadfruit, with its green melon-like fruit, the large
                        ohia, ideal in its beauty,—the most
                    gorgeous flowering tree I have ever seen, with spikes of rose-crimson blossoms
                    borne on the old wood, blazing among its shining many-tinted leafage,—the tall
                        papaya with its fantastic crown, the
                    profuse gigantic plantain, and innumerable other trees, shrubs, and lianas, in
                    the beauty and bounteousness of an endless spring. Imagine my surprise on seeing
                    at the bottom of one gulch, a grove of good-sized, dark-leaved, very handsome
                    trees, with an abundance of smooth round green fruit upon them, and on reaching
                    them finding that they were orange trees, their great size, far exceeding that
                    of the largest at Valencia, having prevented me from recognizing them earlier!
                    In another, some large shrubs with oval, shining, dark leaves, much crimped at
                    the edges, bright green berries along the stalks, and masses of pure white
                    flowers lying flat, like snow on evergreens, turned out to be coffee! The guava
                    with its obtuse smooth leaves, sweet white blossoms on solitary axillary stalks,
                    and yellow fruit was universal. The novelty of the fruit, foliage, and
                    vegetation is an intense delight to me. I should like to see how the rigid
                    aspect of a coniferous tree, of which there is not one indigenous to the
                    islands, would look by contrast. We passed through a long thicket of sumach, an
                    exotic from North America, which still retains its old habit of shedding its
                    leaves, and its grey, wintry, desolate-looking
                    branches reminded me that there are less-favoured parts of the world, and that
                    you are among mist, cold, murk, slush, gales, leaflessness, and all the dismal
                    concomitants of an English winter.
                It is wonderful that people should have thought of crossing these gulches on
                    anything with four legs. Formerly, that is, within the last thirty years, the
                    precipices could only be ascended by climbing with the utmost care, and
                    descended by being lowered with ropes from crag to crag, and from tree to tree,
                    when hanging on by the hands became impracticable to.even the most experienced
                    mountaineer. In this last fashion Mr. Coan and Mr. Lyons were let down to preach
                    the gospel to the people of the then populous valleys. But within recent years,
                    narrow tracks, allowing one horse to pass another, have been cut along the sides
                    of these precipices, without any windings to make them easier, and only
                    deviating enough from the perpendicular to allow of their descent by the
                    sure-footed native-born animals. Most of them are worn by water and animals'
                    feet, broken, rugged, jagged, with steps of rock sometimes three feet high,
                    produced by breakage here and there. Up and down these the animals slip, jump,
                    and scramble, some of them standing still until severely spurred, or driven by
                    some one from behind. Then there are softer descents, slippery with damp, and
                    perilous in heavy rains, down which they slide dexterously, gathering all their
                    legs under them. On a few of these tracks a false step means death, but the
                    vegetation which clothes the pali below,
                    blinds one to the risk. I don't think anything would induce me to go up a
                        swinging zigzag—up a terrible pali opposite to me as I write, the sides of which
                    are quite undraped.
                All the gulches for the first twenty-four miles contain running water. The great
                    Hakalau gulch we crossed early yesterday, has a river with a smooth bed as wide
                    as the Thames at Eton. Some have only small quiet streams, which pass gently
                    through ferny grottoes. Others have fierce strong torrents dashing between
                    abrupt walls of rock, among immense boulders into deep abysses, and cast
                    themselves over precipice after precipice into the ocean. Probably, many of
                    these are the courses of fire torrents, whose jagged masses of a-a have since been worn smooth, and channelled
                    into holes by the action of water. A few are crossed on narrow bridges, but the
                    majority are forded, if that quiet conventional term can be applied to the
                    violent flounderings by which the horses bring one through. The transparency
                    deceives them, and however deep the water is, they always try to lift their fore
                    feet out of it, which gives them a disagreeable rolling motion. (Mr. Brigham in
                    his valuable monograph on the Hawaiian volcanoes quoted below,* appears as much impressed with these
                    gulches as I am.)
                
                    
                        
                            “The road from Hilo to Laupahoehoe, a distance of thirty miles, runs
                                somewhat inland, and is one of the most remarkable in the world.
                                Ravines, 1,800 or 2,000 feet deep, and less than a mile wide, extend
                                far up the slopes of Mauna Kea. Streams, liable to sudden and
                                tremendous freshets, must be traversed on a path of indescribable
                                steepness, winding zig-zag up and down the beautifully-wooded slopes
                                or precipices, which are ornamented with cascades of every
                                conceivable form. Few strangers, when they come to the worst
                                precipices, dare to ride down, but such is the nature of the rough
                                steps, that a horse or mule will pass them with less difficulty than
                                a man on foot who is unused to climbing. No less than sixty-five
                                streams must be crossed in a distance of thirty miles.”
                        
                        —Brigham “On the Hawaiian Volcanoes.”
                    
                
                
                We lunched in one glorious valley, and Kaluna made drinking cups which held fully
                    a pint, out of the beautiful leaves of the Aruin esculentum. Towards afternoon
                    turbid-looking clouds lowered over the sea, and by the time we reached the worst
                        pali of all, the south side of
                    Laupahoehoe, they burst on us in torrents of rain accompanied by strong wind.
                    This terrible precipice takes one entirely by surprise. Kaluna, who rode first,
                    disappeared so suddenly that I thought he had gone over. It is merely a
                    dangerous broken ledge, and besides that it looks as if there were only foothold
                    for a goat, one is dizzied by the sight of the foaming ocean immediately below,
                    and, when we actually reached the bottom, there was only a narrow strip of
                    shingle between the stupendous cliff and the resounding surges, which came up as
                    if bent on destruction. The path by which we descended looked a mere thread on
                    the side of the precipice. I don't know what the word beetling means, but if it
                    means anything bad, I will certainly apply it to that pali.
                A number of disastrous-looking native houses are clustered under some very tall
                    palms in the open part of the gulch, but it is a most wretched situation; the
                    roar of the surf is deafening, the scanty supply of water is brackish, there are
                    rumours that leprosy is rife, and the people are said to be the poorest on
                    Hawaii. We were warned that we could not spend a night comfortably there, so
                    wet, tired, and stiff, we rode on other six miles to the house of a native
                    called Bola-Bola, where we had been instructed
                    to remain. The rain was heavy and ceaseless, and the trail had become so
                    slippery that our progress was much retarded. It was a most unpropitious-looking
                    evening, and I began to feel the painful stiffness arising from prolonged
                    fatigue in saturated clothes. I indulged in various imaginations as we rode up
                    the long ascent leading to Bola-Bola's, but this time they certainly were not of
                    sofas and tea, and I never aspired to anything beyond drying my clothes by a
                    good fire, for at Hilo some people had shrugged their shoulders, and others had
                    laughed mysteriously at the idea of our sleeping there, and some had said it was
                    one of the worst of native houses.
                A single glance was enough. It was a dilapidated frame-house, altogether forlorn,
                    standing unsheltered on a slope of the mountain, with one or two yet more
                    forlorn grass piggeries, which I supposed might be the cook house, and
                    eating-house near it.
                A prolonged har-r-r-rouche from Kaluna brought out a man with a
                    female horde behind him, all shuffling into clothes as we approached, and we
                    stiffly dismounted from the wet saddles in which we had sat for ten hours, and
                    stiffly hobbled up into the littered verandah, the water dripping from our
                    clothes, and squeezing out of our boots at every step. Inside there was one room
                    about 18 x 14 feet, which looked as if the people had just arrived and had
                    thrown down their goods promiscuously. There were mats on the floor not over
                    clean, and half the room was littered and piled with mats rolled up, boxes,
                    bamboos, saddles, blankets, lassos, cocoanuts,
                    kalo roots, bananas, quilts, pans, calabashes,
                    bundles of hard poi in ti leaves, bones, cats, fowls, clothes. A frightful old woman,
                    looking like a relic of the old heathen days, with bristling grey hair cut
                    short, her body tattooed all over, and no clothing but a ragged blanket huddled
                    round her shoulders; a girl about twelve, with torrents of shining hair, and a
                    piece of bright green calico thrown round her, and two very good-looking young
                    women in rose-coloured chemises, one of them holding a baby, were squatting and
                    lying on the mats, one over another, like a heap of savages.
                When the man found that we were going to stay all night he bestirred himself,
                    dragged some of the things to one side and put down a shake-down of pulu (the silky covering of the fronds of one
                    species of tree-fern), with a sheet over it, and a gay quilt of orange and red
                    cotton. There was a thin printed muslin curtain to divide off one half of the
                    room, a usual arrangement in native houses. He then helped to unsaddle the
                    horses, and the confusion of the room was increased by a heap of our wet
                    saddles, blankets, and gear. All this time the women lay on the floor and stared
                    at us.
                Rheumatism seemed impending, for the air up there was chilly, and I said to
                    Deborah that I must make some change in my dress, and she signed to Kaluna, who
                    sprang at my soaked boots and pulled them off, and my stockings too, with a
                    savage alacrity which left it doubtful for a moment whether he had not also
                    pulled off my feet! I had no means of making any further change except putting
                    on a wrapper over my wet clothes.
                
                Meanwhile the man killed and boiled a fowl, and boiled some sweet potato, and
                    when these untempting viands, and a calabash of poi were put before us, we sat round them and eat; I with my
                    knife, the others with their fingers. There was some coffee in a dirty bowl. The
                    females had arranged a row of pillows on their mat, and all lay face downwards,
                    with their chins resting upon them, staring at us with their great brown eyes,
                    and talking and laughing incessantly. They had low sensual faces, like some low
                    order of animal. When our meal was over, the man threw them the relics, and they
                    soon picked the bones clean. It surprised me that after such a badly served meal
                    the man brought a bowl of water for our hands, and something intended for a
                    towel.
                By this time it was dark, and a stone, deeply hollowed at the top, was produced,
                    containing beef fat and a piece of rag for a wick, which burned with a strong
                    flaring light. The women gathered themselves up and sat round a large calabash
                    of poi, conveying the sour paste to their
                    mouths with an inimitable twist of the fingers, laying their heads back and
                    closing their eyes with a look of animal satisfaction. When they had eaten they
                    lay down as before, with their chins on their pillows, and again the row of
                    great brown eyes confronted me. Deborah, Kaluna, and the women talked
                    incessantly in loud shrill voices till Kaluna uttered the word auwé with a long groaning intonation, apparently
                    signifying weariness, divested himself of his clothes and laid down on a mat
                    alongside our shake-down, upon which we let down the dividing curtain and wrapped ourselves up as warmly
                    as possible.
                I was uneasy about Deborah who had had a cough for some time, and consequently
                    took the outside place under the window which was broken, and presently a large
                    cat jumped through the hole and down upon me, followed by another and another,
                    till five wild cats had effected an entrance, making me a stepping-stone to
                    ulterior proceedings. Had there been a sixth I think I could not have borne the
                    infliction quietly. Strips of jerked beef were hanging from the rafters, and by
                    the light which was still burning I watched the cats climb up stealthily, seize
                    on some of these, descend, and disappear through the window, making me a
                    stepping-stone as before, but with all their craft they let some of the strips
                    fall, which awoke Deborah, and next I saw Kaluna's magnificent eyes peering at
                    us under the curtain. Then the natives got up, and smoked and eat more poi at intervals, and talked, and Kaluna and
                    Deborah quarrelled, jokingly, about the time of night she told me, and the moon
                    through the rain-clouds occasionally gave us delusive hopes of dawn, and I kept
                    moving my place to get out of the drip from the roof, and so the night passed. I
                    was amused all the time, though I should have preferred sleep to such nocturnal
                    diversions. It was so new, and so odd, to be the only white person among eleven
                    natives in a lonely house, and yet to be as secure from danger and annoyance as
                    in our own home.
                At last a pale dawn did appear, but the rain was still coming down heavily, and
                    our poor animals were standing dismally with
                    their heads down and their tails turned towards the wind. Yesterday evening I
                    took a change of clothes out of the damp saddle-bags, and put them into what I
                    hoped was a dry place, but they were soaked, wetter even than those in which I
                    had been sleeping, and my boots and Deborah's were so stiff, that we gladly
                    availed ourselves of Kaluna's most willing services. The mode of washing was
                    peculiar: he held a calabash with about half-a-pint of water in it, while we
                    bathed our faces and hands, and all the natives looked on and tittered. This was
                    apparently his idea of politeness, for no persuasion would induce him to put the
                    bowl down on the mat, and Deborah evidently thought it was proper respect. We
                    had a repetition of the same viands as the night before for breakfast, and, as
                    before, the women lay with their chins on their pillows and stared at us.
                The rain ceased almost as soon as we started, and though it has not been a bright
                    day, it has been very pleasant. There are no large gulches on to-day's journey.
                    The track is mostly through long grass, over undulating uplands, with park-like
                    clumps of trees, and thickets of guava and the exotic sumach. Different ferns,
                    flowers, and vegetation, with much less luxuriance and little water, denoted a
                    drier climate and a different soil. There are native churches at distances of
                    six or seven miles all the way from Hilo, but they seem too large and too many
                    for the scanty population.
                We moved on in single file at a jog-trot wherever the road admitted of it,
                    meeting mounted natives now and then, which led to a delay for the exchange of
                        nuhou;
                    and twice we had to turn into the thicket to avoid what here seems to be
                    considered a danger. There are many large herds of semi-wild bullocks on the
                    mountains, branded cattle, as distinguished from the wild or unbranded, and when
                    they are wanted for food, a number of experienced vaccheros on strong shod horses go up, and drive forty or fifty
                    of them down. We met such a drove bound for Hilo, with one or two men in front
                    and others at the sides and behind, uttering loud shouts. The bullocks are
                    nearly mad with being hunted and driven, and at times rush like a living
                    tornado, tearing up the earth with their horns. As soon as the galloping riders
                    are seen and the crooked-horned beasts, you retire behind a screen. There must
                    be some tradition of some one having been knocked down and hurt, for reckless as
                    the natives are said to be, they are careful about this, and we were warned
                    several times by travellers whom we met, that there were “bullocks ahead.” The
                    law provides that the vaccheros shall station
                    one of their number at the head of a gulch to give notice when cattle are to
                    pass through.
                We jogged on again till we met a native who told us that we were quite close to
                    our destination; but there were no signs of it, for we were still on the lofty
                    uplands, and the only prominent objects were huge headlands confronting the sea.
                    I got off to walk, as my mule seemed footsore, but had not gone many yards when
                    we came suddenly to the verge of a pali, about
                    1,000 feet deep, with a narrow fertile valley below, with a yet higher pali on the other side, both abutting
                    perpendicularly on the sea. I should think the
                    valley is not more than three miles long, and it is walled in by high
                    inaccessible mountains. It is in fact, a gulch on a vastly enlarged scale. The
                    prospect below us was very charming, a fertile region perfectly level, protected
                    from the sea by sandhills, watered by a winding stream, and bright with
                    fishponds, meadow lands, kalo patches, orange
                    and coffee groves, figs, breadfruit, and palms. There were a number of
                    grass-houses, and a native church with a spire, and another up the valley
                    testified to the energy and aggressiveness of Rome. We saw all this from the
                    moment we reached the pali; and it enlarged,
                    and the detail grew upon us with every yard of the laborious descent of broken
                    craggy track, which is the only mode of access to the valley from the outer
                    world. I got down on foot with difficulty; a difficulty much increased by the
                    long rowels of my spurs, which caught on the rocks and entangled my dress, the
                    simple expedient of taking them off not having occurred to me!
                A neat frame-house, with large stones between it and the river, was our
                    destination. It belongs to a native named Halemanu, a great man in the district,
                    for, besides being a member of the legislature, he is deputy sheriff. He is a
                    man of property, also; and though he cannot speak a word of English, he is well
                    educated in Hawaiian, and writes an excellent hand. I brought a letter of
                    introduction to him from Mr. Severance, and we were at once received with every
                    hospitality, our horses cared for, and ourselves luxuriously lodged. We walked
                    up the valley before dark to get a view of a cascade, and found supper ready on our return. This is such luxury after
                    last night. There is a very light bright sitting-room, with papered walls, and
                    manilla matting on the floor, a round centre table with books and a photographic
                    album upon it, two rocking-chairs, an office-desk, another table and chairs, and
                    a Canadian lounge. I can't imagine in what way this furniture was brought here.
                    Our bedroom opens from this, and it actually has a four-post bedstead with
                    mosquito bars, a lounge and two chairs, and the floor is covered with native
                    matting. The washing apparatus is rather an anomaly, for it consists of a basin
                    and crash towel placed in the verandah, in full view of fifteen people. The
                    natives all bathe in the river.
                Halemanu has a cook house and native cook, and an eating-room, where I was
                    surprised to find everything in foreign style—chairs, a table with a snow white
                    cover, and table napkins, knives, forks, and even saltcellars. I asked him to
                    eat with us, and he used a knife and fork quite correctly, never, for instance,
                    putting the knife into his mouth. I was amused to see him afterwards, sitting on
                    a mat among his family and dependants, helping himself to poi from a calabash with his fingers. He gave us
                    for supper delicious river fish fried, boiled kalo, and Waipio coffee with boiled milk.
                It is very annoying only to be able to converse with this man through an
                    interpreter; and Deborah, as is natural, is rather unwilling to be troubled to
                    speak English, now that she is among her own people. After supper we sat by
                    candlelight in the parlour, and he showed me his photograph album. At eight he
                        took a large Bible, put on glasses, and
                    read a chapter in Hawaiian; after which he knelt and prayed with profound
                    reverence of manner and tone. Towards the end I recognized the Hawaiian words
                    for “Our Father.”* Here in Waipio there
                    is something pathetic in the idea of this Fatherhood, which is wider than the
                    ties of kin and race. Even here not one is a stranger, an alien, a foreigner!
                    And this man, so civilized and Christianized, only now in middle life, was, he
                    said, “a big boy when the first teachers came,” and may very likely have
                    witnessed horrors in the heiau, or temple,
                    close by, of which little is left now.
                This bedroom is thoroughly comfortable. Kaluna wanted to sleep on the lounge
                    here, probably because he is afraid of akuas,
                    or spirits, but we have exiled him to a blanket on the parlour lounge.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
                
                    
                        * The Lord's
                            Prayer in Hawaiian runs thus:—E ko mako Makua i-loko o ka Lani, e
                            hoanoia Kou Inoa E hiki mai Kou auhuni e malamaia Kou Makemake ma ka-nei
                            honua e like me ia i malamaia ma ka Lani e haawi mai i a makau i ai no
                            keia la e kala mai i ko makou lawehalaana me makou e kala nei i ka poe i
                            lawehala mai i a makou mai alakai i a makou i ka hoowalewaleia mai ata e
                            hookapele i a makou mai ka ino no ka mea Nou ke Aupuni a me ka Mana a me
                            ka hoonaniia a man loa 'ku. Amene.
                    
                
            
            
                
                LETTER X.—(continued.)
                WE were thoroughly rested this morning, and very glad of a fine
                    day for a visit to the great cascade which is rarely seen by foreigners. My mule
                    was slightly galled with the girth, and having a strong fellow feeling with
                    Elisha's servant, “Alas, master, for it was borrowed!” I have bought for $20 a
                    pretty, light, half-broken bay mare, which I rode to-day and liked much.
                After breakfast, which was a repetition of last night's supper, we three, with
                    Halemanu's daughter as guide, left on horseback for the waterfall, though the
                    natives tried to dissuade us by saying that stones came down, and it was
                    dangerous; also that people could not go in their clothes, there was so much
                    wading. In deference to this last opinion, D. rode without boots, and I without
                    stockings. We rode through the beautiful valley till we reached a deep gorge
                    turning off from it, which opens out into a nearly circular chasm with walls
                    2,000 feet in height, where we tethered our horses. A short time after leaving
                    them, D. said, “She says we can't go further in our clothes,” but when the
                    natives saw me plunge boldly into the river in my riding dress, which is really
                    not unlike a fashionable Newport bathing suit, they thought better of it. It was
                    a thoroughly rough tramp, wading ten times through the river, which was
                    sometimes up to our knees, and sometimes to
                    our waists, and besides the fighting among slippery rocks in rushing water, we
                    had to crawl and slide up and down wet, mossy masses of dislodged rock, to push
                    with eyes shut through wet jungles of Indian shot, guava, and a thorny vine, and
                    sometimes to climb from tree to tree at a considerable height. When, after an
                    hour's fighting we arrived in sight of the cascade, but not of the basin into
                    which it falls, our pretty guide declined to go further, saying that the wind
                    was rising, and that stones would fall and kill us, but being incredulous on
                    this point, I left them, and with great difficulty and many bruises, got up the
                    river to its exit from the basin, and there, being unable to climb the rocks on
                    either side, stood up to my throat in the still tepid water till the scene
                    became real to me.
                I do not care for any waterfall but Niagara, nor do I care in itself for this
                    one, for though its first leap is 200 feet and its second 1,600, it is so
                    frittered away and dissipated in spray, owing to the very magnitude of its
                    descent, that there is no volume of water within sight to create mass or sound.
                    But no words can paint the majesty of the surroundings, the caverned,
                    precipitous walls of rock coming down in one black plunge from the blue sky
                    above to the dark abyss of water below, the sullen shuddering sound with which
                    pieces of rock came hurtling down among the trees, the thin tinkle of the water
                    as it falls, the full rush of the river, the feathery growth of ferns, gigantic
                    below, but so diminished by the height above, as only to show their presence by
                    the green tinge upon the rocks, while in addition to the gloom produced by the stupendous height of the cliffs, there
                    is a cool, green darkness of dense forest, and mighty trees of strange tropical
                    forms glass themselves in the black mirror of the basin. For one moment a ray of
                    sunshine turned the upper part of the spray into a rainbow, and never to my eyes
                    had the bow of promise looked so heavenly as when it spanned the black, solemn,
                    tree-shadowed abyss, whose deep, still waters only catch a sunbeam on five days
                    of the year.
                I found the natives regaling themselves on papaya, and on live fresh-water shrimps, which they find in great
                    numbers in the river. I remembered that white people at home calling themselves
                    civilized, eat live, or at least raw, oysters, but the sight of these active,
                    squirming shrimps struggling between the white teeth of my associates was yet
                    more repulsive.
                We finished our adventurous expedition with limbs much bruised, as well as torn
                    and scratched, and before we emerged from the chasm saw a rock dislodged, which
                    came crashing down not far from us, carrying away an ohia. It is a gruesome and dowie den, but well worth a visit.
                We mounted again, and rode as far as we could up the valley, fording the river in
                    deep water several times, and coming down the other side. The coffee trees in
                    full blossom were very beautiful, and they, as well as the oranges, have escaped
                    the blight which has fallen upon both in other parts of the island. In addition
                    to the usual tropical productions, there were some very fine fig trees and
                    thickets of the castor-oil plant, a very 
                        hand-
                        handsome
                     some shrub, when, as here, it grows
                    to a height of from ten to twenty-two feet. The natives, having been joined by
                    some Waipio women, rode at full gallop over all sorts of ground, and I enjoyed
                    the speed of my mare without any apprehension of being thrown off. We rode among
                    most extensive kalo plantations, and large
                    artificial fish-ponds, in which hundreds of gold-fish were gleaming, and came
                    back by the sea shore, green with the maritime convolvulus, and the
                    smooth-bottomed river, which the Waipio folk use as a road. Canoes glide along
                    it, brown-skinned men wade down it floating bundles of kalo after them, and strings of laden horses and mules follow
                    each other along its still waters. I hear that in another and nearly
                    unapproachable valley, a river serves the same purpose. While we were riding up
                    it, a great gust lifted off its surface in fine spray, and almost blew us from
                    our horses. Hawaii has no hurricanes, but at some hours of the day Waipio is
                    subject to terrific gusts, which really justify the people in their objection to
                    visiting the cascade. Some time ago, in one of these, this house was lifted up,
                    carried twenty feet, and deposited in its present position.
                Supper was ready for us—kalo, yams, spatchcock,
                        poi, coffee, rolls, and Oregon kippered
                    salmon; and when I told Halemanu that the spatchcock and salmon reminded me of
                    home, he was quite pleased, and said he would provide the same for breakfast
                    to-morrow.
                The owner of the mare, which I have named “Bessie Twinker,” had willingly sold
                    her to me, though I told him I could not pay him for her until I reached Onomea.
                    I do not know what had caused my credit to suffer during my absence, but D., after talking long with him this
                    evening, said to me, “He says he can't let you have the horse, because when
                    you've taken it away, he thinks you will never send him the money.” I told her
                    indignantly to tell him that English women never cheated people, a broad and
                    totally unsustainable assertion, which had the effect of satisfying the poor
                    fellow.
                After Halemanu, Deborah, Kaluna, and a number of natives had eaten their poi, Halemanu brought in a very handsome silver
                    candlestick, and expressed a wish that Deborah should interpret for us. He asked
                    a great many sensible questions about England, specially about the state of the
                    poor, the extent of the franchise, and the influence of religion. When he heard
                    that I had spent some years in Scotland, he said, “Do you know Mr. Wallace?” I
                    was quite puzzled, and tried to recall any man of that name who I had heard of
                    as having visited Hawaii, when a happy flash of comprehension made me aware of
                    his meaning, and I replied that I had seen his sword several times, but that he
                    died long before I knew Scotland, and indeed before I was born; but that the
                    Scotch held his memory in great veneration, and were putting up a monument to
                    him. But for the mistake as to dates, he seemed to have the usual notions as to
                    the exploits of Wallace. He deplores most deeply the dwindling of his people,
                    and his manner became very sad about it. D. said, “He's very unhappy; he says,
                    soon there will be no more Kanakas.” He told me that this beautiful valley was
                    once very populous, and even forty years ago, when Mr. Ellis visited it,
                        there were 1,300 people here. Now probably
                    there are not more than 200.
                Here was the Puhonua, or place of refuge for
                    all this part of the island. This, and the very complete one of Honaunau, on the
                    other side of Hawaii, were the Hawaiian “Cities of Refuge.” Could any tradition
                    of the Mosaic ordinance on this subject have travelled hither? These two
                    sanctuaries were absolutely inviolable. The gates stood perpetually open, and
                    though the fugitive was liable to be pursued to their very threshold, he had no
                    sooner crossed it than he was safe from king, chief, or avenger. These gates
                    were wide, and some faced the sea, and others the mountains. Hither the
                    murderer, the manslayer, the tabu-breaker
                    fled, repaired to the presence of the idol, and thanked it for aiding him to
                    reach the place of security. After a certain time the fugitives were allowed to
                    return to their families, and none dared to injure those to whom the high gods
                    had granted their protection.
                In time of war, tall spears from which white flags were unfurled, were placed at
                    each end of the enclosure, and until the proclamation of peace invited the
                    vanquished to enter. These flags were fixed a short distance outside the walls,
                    and no pursuing warrior, even in the hot flush of victory, could pursue his
                    routed foe one foot beyond. Within was the sacred pale of pahu tabu, and anyone attempting to strike his
                    victim there would have been put to death by the priests and their adherents. In
                    war time the children, old people, and many of the women of the neighbouring
                    districts, were received within the enclosure,
                    where they awaited the issue of the conflict in security, and were safe from
                    violence in the event of defeat. These puhonuas contain pieces of stone weighing from two to three tons,
                    raised six feet from the ground, and the walls, narrowing gradually towards the
                    top, are fifteen feet wide at the base and twelve feet high. They are truly
                    grand monuments of humanity in the midst of the barbarous institutions of
                    heathenism, and it shows a considerable degree of enlightenment that even rebels
                    in arms and fugitives from invading armies were safe, if they reached the sacred
                    refuge, for the priests of Keawe knew no
                    distinctions of party.
                In dreadful contrast to this place of mercy, there were some very large heaius (or temples) here, on whose hideous altars
                    eighty human sacrifices are said to have been offered at one time. One of the
                    legends told me concerning this lovely valley is, that King Umi, having
                    vanquished the kings of the six divisions of Hawaii, was sacrificing captives in
                    one of these heiaus, when the voice of his
                    god, Kuahilo, was heard from the clouds,
                    demanding more slaughter. Fresh human blood streamed from the altars, but the
                    insatiable demon continued to call for more, till Umi had sacrificed all the
                    captives and all his own men but one, whom he at first refused to give up, as he
                    was a great favourite, but Kuahilo thundered
                    from heaven, till the favourite warrior was slain, and only the king and the
                    sacrificing priest remained.
                This valley of the “vanquished waters” abounds in legends. Some of these are
                    about a cruel monster, King Hooku, who lived here, and whose memory, so far as
                        he is remembered, is much execrated. It is
                    told of him that if a man were said to have a handsome head he sent some of his
                    warriors to behead him, and then hacked and otherwise disfigured the face for a
                    diversion. On one occasion he ordered a man's arm to be cut off and brought to
                    him, simply because it was said to be more beautifully tattooed than his own. It
                    is fifty-four years since the last human sacrifice was exposed on the Waipio
                    altars, but there are several old people here who must have been at least thirty
                    when Hawaii threw off idolatry for ever. Halemanu has again closed the evening
                    with the simple worship of the true God.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XI.
                
                    HILO, HAWAII.
                
                THERE is a rumour that the king is coming as the guest of
                    Admiral Pennock in the Benicia. If it turns out to be true, it will
                    turn our quiet life upside down.
                We met with fearful adventures in the swollen gulches between Laupahoehoe and
                    Onomea. It is difficult to begin my letter with the plain prose of our departure
                    from Waipio, which we accomplished on the morning after I last wrote. On rising
                    after a sound sleep, I found that my potted beef, which I had carefully hung
                    from a nail the night before, had been almost carried away by small ants. These
                    ants swarm in every house on low altitudes. They assemble in legions as if by
                    magic, and by their orderly activity carry away all that they do not devour, of
                    all eatables which have not been placed on tables which have rags dipped in a
                    solution of corrosive sublimate wound round their legs.
                We breakfasted by lamplight, and because I had said that some of the viands
                    reminded me of home, our kind host had provided them at that early hour. He
                    absolutely refused to be paid anything for the accommodation of our party, and
                    said he should be ashamed of himself if he took anything from a lady travelling
                    without a husband.
                
                It was such a perfect morning. The full moon hung over the enclosing palis, gleaming on coffee and breadfruit groves,
                    and on the surface of the river, which was just quivering under a soft sea
                    breeze. The dew was heavy, smoke curled idly from native houses, the east was
                    flushing with the dawn, and the valley looked the picture of perfect peace. A
                    number of natives assembled to see us start, and they all shook hands with us,
                    exchanging alohas, and presenting us with
                        leis of roses and ohias. D. looked very pretty with a red hibiscus blossom in her
                    shining hair. You would have been amused to see me shaking hands with men
                    dressed only in malos, or in the short blue
                    shirt reaching to the waist, much worn by them when at work.
                I rode my mare with some pride of proprietorship, and our baggage for a time was
                    packed on the mule, and we started up the tremendous pali at the tail of a string of twenty mules and horses laden
                    with kalo. This was in the form of palai, or hard food, which is composed, as I think
                    I mentioned before, of the root baked and pounded, but without water. It is put
                    up in bundles wrapped in ti leaves, of from
                    twenty to thirty pounds each, secured with cocoanut fibre, in which state it
                    will keep for months, and much of the large quantity raised in Waipio is
                    exported to the plantations, the Waimea ranches, and the neighbouring districts.
                    A square mile of kalo, it is estimated, would
                    feed 15,000 Hawaiians for a year.
                It was a beautiful view from the top of the pali. The white moon was setting, the earliest sunlight was
                    lighting up the dewy depths of the lonely valley, reddening with a rich rose red the huge headland which forms one of
                    its sentinels; heavy snow had fallen during the night on Mauna Kea, and his
                    great ragged dome, snow-covered down to the forests, was blushing like an Alpine
                    peak at the touch of the early sun. It ripened into a splendid joyous day, which
                    redeemed the sweeping uplands of Hamakua from the dreariness which I had thought
                    belonged to them. There was a fresh sea-breeze, and the sun, though unclouded,
                    was not too hot. We halted for an early lunch at the clean grass-house we had
                    stopped at before, and later in the afternoon at that of the woman with whom we
                    had ridden from Hakalau, who received us very cordially, and regaled us with
                        poi and pork.
                In order to avoid the amenities of Bola Bola's we rode thirty-four miles, and
                    towards evening descended the tremendous steep, which leads to the surf-deafened
                    village of Laupahoehoe. Halemaiu had given me a note of introduction to a widow
                    named Honolulu, which Deborah said began thus, “As I know that you have the only
                    clean house in L,” and on presenting it we were made very welcome. Besides the
                    widow, a very redundant beauty, there were her two brothers and two male
                    cousins, and all bestirred themselves in our service, the men in killing and
                    cooking the supper, and the woman in preparing the beds. It was quite a large
                    room, with doors at the end and side, and fully a third was curtained off by a
                    calico curtain, with a gorgeous Crétonne pattern upon it. I was delighted to see
                    a four-post bed, with mosquito bars, and a clean pulu mattrass, with a linen
                    sheet over it, covered with a beautiful quilt with a quaint arabesque pattern on
                    a white ground running round it, and a wreath of green leaves in the centre. The
                    native women exercise the utmost ingenuity in the patterns and colours of these
                    quilts. Some of them are quite works of art. The materials, which are plain and
                    printed cottons, cost about $8, and a complete quilt is worth from $18 to $50.
                    The widow took six small pillows, daintily covered with silk, out of a chest,
                    the uses of which were not obvious, as two large pillows were already on the
                    bed. It was astonishing to see a native house so handsomely furnished in so poor
                    a place. The mats on the floor were numerous and very fine. There were two
                    tables, several chairs, a bureau with a swinging mirror upon it, a basin, crash
                    towels, a carafe and a kerosene lamp. It is all very well to be able to rough
                    it, and yet better to enjoy doing so, but such luxuries add much to one's
                    contentment after eleven hours in the saddle.
                Honolulu wore a green chemise at first, but when supper was ready she put a
                    Macgregor tartan holuku over it. The men were
                    very active, and cooked the fowl in about the same time that it takes to pluck
                    one at home. They spread the finest mat I have seen in the centre of the floor
                    as a tablecloth, and put down on it bowls containing the fowl and sweet
                    potatoes, and the unfailing calabash of poi.
                    Tea, coffee and milk were not procurable, and as the water is slimy and
                    brackish, I offered a boy a dime to get me a cocoanut, and presently eight
                    great, misshapen things were rolled down at the door. The outside is a smooth
                    buff rind, underneath which is a fibrous
                    covering, enormously strong and about an inch thick, which when stripped off
                    reveals the nut as we see it, but of a very pale colour. Those we opened were
                    quite young, and each contained nearly three tumblers of almost effervescent,
                    very sweet, slightly acidulated, perfectly limpid water, with a strong flavour
                    of cocoanut. It is a delicious beverage. The meat was so thin and soft that it
                    could have been spooned out like the white of an egg if we had had any spoons.
                    We all sat cross-legged round our meal, and all Laupahoehoe crowded into the
                    room and verandah with the most persistent, unwinking, gimleting stare I ever
                    saw. It was really unpleasant, not only to hear a Babel of talking, of which,
                    judging from the constant repetition of the words wahine
                        haole, I was the subject, but to have to eat under the focussed
                    stare of twenty pair of eyes. My folding camp-knife appears an object of great
                    interest, and it was handed round, inside and outside the house. When I retired
                    about seven, the assemblage was still in full session.
                The stars were then bright, but when I woke the next morning a strong breeze was
                    blowing, the surf was roaring so loud as almost to drown human voices, and
                    rolling up in gigantic surges, and to judge from appearances, the rain which was
                    falling in torrents had been falling for some hours. There was much buzzing
                    among the natives regarding our prospects for the day. I shall always think from
                    their tone and manner, and the frequent repetition of the names of the three
                    worst gulches, that the older men tried to dissuade us from going; but Deborah,
                    who was very anxious to be at home by Sunday, said that the verdict was that if we started at once for our
                    ride of twenty-three miles we might reach Onomea before the freshet came on.
                    This might have been the case had it not been for Kaluna. Not only was his horse
                    worn out, but nothing would induce him to lead the mule, and she went off on
                    foraging expeditions continually, which further detained us. Kaluna had grown
                    quite polite in his savage way. He always insisted on putting on and taking off
                    my boots, carried me once through the Waipio river, helped me to pack the
                    saddle-bags, and even offered to brush my hair! He frequently brought me guavas
                    on the road, saying, “eat,” and often rode up, saying interrogatively, “tired?”
                    “cold?” D. told me that he was very tired, and I was very sorry for him, for he
                    was so thinly and poorly dressed, and the natives are not strong enough to bear
                    exposure to cold as we can, and a temperature at 68° is cold to them. But he was
                    quite incorrigible, and thrashed his horse to the last.
                We breakfasted on fowl, poi, and cocoanut milk,
                    in presence of even a larger number of spectators than the night before, one of
                    them a very old man looking savagely picturesque, with a red blanket tied round
                    his waist, leaving his lean chest and arms, which were elaborately tattooed,
                    completely exposed.
                The mule had been slightly chafed by the gear, and in my anxiety about a borrowed
                    animal, of which Mr. Austin makes a great joke, I put my saddle-bags on my own
                    mare, in an evil hour, and not only these, but some fine cocoanuts, tied up in a
                    waterproof which had long ago proved its worthlessness. It was a grotesquely
                        miserable picture. The house is not far
                    from the beach, and the surf, beyond which a heavy mist hung, was coming in with
                    such a tremendous sound that we had to shout at the top of our voices in order
                    to be heard. The sides of the great gulch rose like prison walls, cascades which
                    had no existence the previous night hurled themselves from the summit of the
                    cliffs directly into the sea, the rain, which fell in sheets, not drops, covered
                    the ground to the depth of two or three inches, and dripped from the wretched,
                    shivering horses, which stood huddled together with their tails between their
                    legs. My thin flannel suit was wet through even before we mounted. I dispensed
                    with stockings, as I was told that wearing them in rain chills and stiffens the
                    limbs. D., about whom I was anxious, as well as about the mule, had a really
                    waterproof cloak, and I am glad to say has quite lost the cough from which she
                    suffered before our expedition. She does not care about rain any more than I
                    do.
                We soon reached the top of the worst and dizziest of all the palis, and then splashed on mile after mile, down
                    sliding banks, and along rocky tracks, from which the soil had been completely
                    carried, the rain falling all the time. In some places several feet of soil had
                    been carried away, and we passed through water-rents, the sides of which were as
                    high as our horses' heads, where the ground had been level a few days before. By
                    noon the aspect of things became so bad that I wished we had a white man with
                    us, as I was uneasy about some of the deepest gulches. When four hours' journey
                    from Onomea, Kaluna's horse broke down, and he left us to get another, and we rode a mile out of our way to visit
                    Deborah's grandparents.
                Her uncle carried us across some water to their cookhouse, where, happily, a
                        kalo baking had just been accomplished in
                    a hole in the ground, lined with stones, among which the embers were still warm.
                    In this very small hut, in which a man could hardly stand upright, there were
                    five men only dressed in malos, four women,
                    two of them very old, much tattooed, and huddled up in blankets, two children,
                    five pertinaciously sociable dogs, two cats, and heaps of things of different
                    kinds. They are a most gregarious people, always visiting each other, and living
                    in each other's houses, and so hospitable that no Hawaiian, however poor, will
                    refuse to share his last mouthful of poi with
                    a stranger of his own race. These people looked very poor, but probably were not
                    really so, as they had a nice grass-house, with very fine mats, within a few
                    yards.
                A man went out, cut off the head of a fowl, singed it in the flame, cut it into
                    pieces, put it into a pot to boil, and before our feet were warm the bird was
                    cooked, and we ate it out of the pot with some baked kalo. D. took me out to see some mango trees, and a pond filled
                    with gold fish, which she said had been hers when she was a child. She seemed
                    very fond of her relatives, among whom she looked like a fairy princess; and I
                    think they admired her very much, and treated her with some deference. The
                    object of our visit was to procure a lé of
                    birds' feathers which they had been making for her, and for which I am sure 300
                    birds must have been sacrificed. It was a very
                    beautiful as well as costly ornament,*
                    and most ingeniously packed for travelling by being laid at full length within a
                    slender cylinder of bamboo.
                We rode on again, somewhat unwillingly on my part, for though I thought my
                    apprehensions might be cowardly and ignorant, yet D. was but a child, and had
                    the attractive wilfulness of childhood, and she was, I saw, determined to get
                    back to her husband, and the devotion and affection of the young wife were so
                    pleasant to see, that I had not the heart to offer serious opposition to her
                    wishes, especially as I knew that I might be exaggerating the possible peril. I
                    gathered, however, from what she said, that her people wanted us to remain until
                    Monday, especially as none of them could go with us, their horses being at some
                    distance. I thought it a sign of difficulties ahead, that on one of the most
                    frequented tracks in Hawaii, we had not met a single traveller, though it was
                    Saturday, a special travelling day.
                We crossed one gulch in which the water was strong, and up to our horses' bodies,
                    and came upon the incorrigible Kaluna, who, instead of catching his horse, was
                    recounting his adventures to a circle of natives, but * A small bird,
                        Melithreptes Pacifica, inhabits the mountainous regions of Hawaii, and has
                        under each wing a single feather, one inch long, of a bright canary yellow.
                        The birds are caught by means of a viscid substance smeared on poles.
                        Formerly they were strictly tabu. It is of
                        these feathers that the mamo or war-cloak
                        of Kamehameha I., now used on state occasions by the Hawaiian kings, is
                        composed. This priceless mantle is four feet long, eleven and a half feet
                        wide at the bottom, and its formation occupied nine successive reigns. It is
                        one of the costliest of royal ornaments, if the labour spent upon it is
                        estimated, and the feathers of which it is made have been valued at a dollar
                        and a half for five. promised to
                    follow us soon. D. then said that the next gulch was rather a bad one, and that
                    we must not wait for Kaluna, but ride fast, and try to get through it. When we
                    reached the pali above it, we heard the
                    roaring of a torrent, and when we descended to its brink it looked truly bad,
                    but D. rode in, and I waited on the margin. She got safely across, but when she
                    was near the opposite side her large horse plunged, slipped, and scrambled in a
                    most unpleasant way, and she screamed something to me which I could not hear.
                    Then I went in, and 
                        “At the first plunge the horse sank low,
                        And the water broke o'er the saddle bow:”
                     but the brave animal struggled through, with the water up to the top of her
                    back, till she reached the place where D.'s horse had looked so insecure. In
                    another moment she and I rolled backwards into deep water, as if she had slipped
                    from a submerged rock. I saw her fore feet pawing the air, and then only her
                    head was above water. I struck her hard with my spurs, she snorted, clawed, made
                    a desperate struggle, regained her footing, got into shallow water, and landed
                    safely. It was a small but not an agreeable adventure.
                We went on again, the track now really dangerous from denudation and
                    slipperiness. The rain came down, if possible, yet more heavily, and coursed
                    fiercely down each pali track. Hundreds of
                    cascades leapt from the cliffs, bringing down stones with a sharp rattling
                    sound. We crossed a bridge over one gulch, where the water was thundering down
                    in such volume that it seemed as if it must
                    rend the hard basalt of the palis. Then we
                    reached the lofty top of the great Hakalau gulch, the largest of all, with the
                    double river, and the ocean close to the ford. Mingling with the deep
                    reverberations of the surf, I heard the sharp crisp rush of a river, and of “a
                    river that has no bridge.”
                The dense foliage, and the exigencies of the steep track, which had become very
                    difficult, owing to the washing away of the soil, prevented me from seeing
                    anything till I got down. I found Deborah speaking to a native, who was
                    gesticulating very emphatically, and pointing up the river. The roar was
                    deafening, and the sight terrific. Where there were two shallow streams a week
                    ago, with a house and good-sized piece of ground above their confluence, there
                    was now one spinning, rushing, chafing, foaming river, twice as wide as the
                    Clyde at Glasgow, the land was submerged, and, if I remember correctly, the
                    house only stood above the flood. And, most fearful to look upon, the ocean, in
                    three huge breakers, had come quite in, and its mountains of white surge looked
                    fearfully near the only possible crossing. I entreated D. not to go on. She said
                    we could not go back, that the last gulch was already impassable, that between
                    the two there was no house in which we could sleep, that the river had a good
                    bottom, that the man thought if our horses were strong we could cross now, but
                    not later, &c. In short, she overbore all opposition, and plunged in,
                    calling to me, “spur, spur, all the time.”
                Just as I went in, I took my knife and cut open the cloak which contained the
                    cocoanuts, one only remaining. Deborah's horse
                    I knew was strong, and shod, but my unshod and untried mare, what of her? My
                    soul and senses literally reeled among the dizzy horrors of the wide, wild tide,
                    but with an effort I regained sense and self-possession, for we were in, and
                    there was no turning. D., ahead, screeched to me what I could not hear; she said
                    afterwards it was “spur, spur, and keep up the river;” the native was shrieking
                    in Hawaiian from the hinder shore, and waving to the right, but the torrents of
                    rain, the crash of the breakers, and the rush and hurry of the river confused
                    both sight and hearing. I saw D.'s great horse carried off his legs, my mare,
                    too, was swimming, and shortly afterwards, between swimming, struggling, and
                    floundering, we reached what had been the junction of the two rivers, where
                    there was foothold, and the water was only up to the seat of the saddles.
                Remember, we were both sitting nearly up to our waists in water, and it was only
                    by screaming that our voices were heard above the din, and to return or go on
                    seemed equally perilous. Under these critical circumstances the following
                    colloquy took place, on my side, with teeth chattering, and on hers, with a
                    sudden forgetfulness of English produced by her first sense of the imminent
                    danger we were in.
                Self.—“My mare is so tired, and so heavily weighted, we shall be drowned, or I
                    shall.”
                Deborah (with more reason on her side).—“But can't go back, we no stay here,
                    water higher all minutes, spur horse, think we come through.”
                Self.—“But if we go on there is broader, deeper water between us and the shore; your husband would not like
                    you to run such a risk.”
                Deborah.—“Think we get through, if horses give out, we let go; I swim and save
                    you.”
                Even under these circumstances a gleam of the ludicrous shot through me at the
                    idea of this small fragile being bearing up my weight among the breakers. I
                    attempted to shift my saddle-bags upon her powerful horse, but being full of
                    water and under water, the attempt failed, and as we spoke both our horses were
                    carried off their vantage ground into deep water.
                With wilder fury the river rushed by, its waters whirled dizzily, and, in spite
                    of spurring and lifting with the rein, the horses were swept seawards. It was a
                    very fearful sight. I saw Deborah's horse spin round, and thought woefully of
                    the possible fate of the bright young wife, almost a bride; only the horses'
                    heads and our own heads and shoulders were above water; the surf was thundering
                    on our left, and we were drifting towards it “broadside on.” When I saw the
                    young girl's face of horror I felt increased presence of mind, and raising my
                    voice to a shriek, and telling her to do as I did, I lifted and turned my mare
                    with the rein, so that her chest and not her side should receive the force of
                    the river, and the brave animal, as if seeing what she should do, struck out
                    desperately. It was a horrible suspense. Were we stemming the torrent, or was it
                    sweeping us back that very short distance which lay between us and the
                    mountainous breakers? I constantly spurred my mare, guiding her slightly to the
                    left, the side grew nearer, and after
                    exhausting struggles, Deborah's horse touched ground, and her voice came faintly
                    towards me like a voice in a dream, still calling “Spur, spur.” My mare touched
                    ground twice, and was carried off again before she fairly got to land some yards
                    nearer the sea than the bridle track.
                When our tired horses were taking breath I felt as if my heart stopped, and I
                    trembled all over, for we had narrowly escaped death. I then put our saddle-bags
                    on Deborah's horse. It was one of the worst and steepest of the palis that we had to ascend; but I can't remember
                    anything about the road except that we had to leap some place which we could not
                    cross otherwise. Deborah, then thoroughly alive to a sense of risk, said that
                    there was only one more bad gulch to cross before we reached Onomea, but it was
                    the most dangerous of all, and we could not get across, she feared, but we might
                    go and look at it. I only remember the extreme solitude of the region, and
                    scrambling and sliding down a most precipitous pali, hearing a roar like cataract upon cataract, and coming
                    suddenly down upon a sublime and picturesque scene, with only standing room, and
                    that knee-deep in water, between a savage torrent and the cliff. This gulch,
                    called the Scotchman's gulch, I am told, because a Scotchman was drowned there,
                    must be at its crossing three-quarters of a mile inland, and three hundred feet
                    above the sea. In going to Waipio, on noticing the deep holes and enormous
                    boulders, some of them higher than a man on horseback, I had thought what a
                    fearful place it would be if it were ever full; but my imagination had not
                        reached the reality. One huge compressed
                    impetuous torrent, leaping in creamy foam, boiling in creamy eddies, rioting in
                    deep black chasms, roared and thundered over the whole in rapids of the most
                    tempestuous kind, leaping down to the ocean in three grand broad cataracts, the
                    nearest of them not more than forty feet from the crossing. Imagine the Moriston
                    at the Falls, four times as wide and fifty times as furious, walled in by
                    precipices, and with a miniature Niagara above and below, and you have a feeble
                    illustration of it.
                Portions of two or three rocks only could be seen, and on one of these, about
                    twelve feet from the shore, a nude native, beautifully tattooed, with a lasso in
                    his hands, was standing nearly up to his knees in foam; and about a third of the
                    way from the other side, another native in deeper water, steadying himself by a
                    pole. A young woman on horseback, whose near relative was dangerously ill at
                    Hilo, was jammed under the cliff, and the men were going to get her across.
                    Deborah, to my dismay, said that if she got safely over we would go too, as
                    these natives were very skilful. I asked if she thought her husband would let
                    her cross, and she said “No.” I asked her if she were frightened, and she said
                    “Yes;” but she wished so to get home, and her face was as pale as a brown face
                    can be. I only hope the man will prove worthy of her affectionate devotion.
                Here, though people say it is a most perilous gulch, I was not afraid for her
                    life or mine, with the amphibious natives to help us; but I was sorely afraid of
                    being bruised, and scarred, and of breaking the horses' legs, and I said I would not cross, but would sleep among the
                    trees; but the tumult drowned our voices, though the Hawaiians by screeching
                    could make themselves understood. The nearest man then approached the shore, put
                    the lasso round the nose of the woman's horse, and dragged it into the torrent;
                    and it was exciting to see a horse creeping from rock to rock in a cataract with
                    alarming possibilities in every direction. But beasts may well be bold, as they
                    have not “the foreknowledge of death.” When the nearest native had got the horse
                    as far as he could, he threw the lasso to the man who was steadying himself with
                    the pole, and urged the horse on. There was a deep chasm between the two into
                    which the animal fell, as he tried to leap from one rock to another. I saw for a
                    moment only a woman's head and shoulders, a horse's head, a commotion of foam, a
                    native tugging at the lasso, and then a violent scramble on to a rock, and a
                    plunging and floundering through deep water to shore.
                Then Deborah said she would go, that her horse was a better and stronger one; and
                    the same process was repeated with the same slip into the chasm, only with the
                    variation that for a second she went out of sight altogether. It was a terribly
                    interesting and exciting spectacle with sublime accompaniments. Though I had no
                    fear of absolute danger, yet my mare was tired, and I had made up my mind to
                    remain on that side till the flood abated; but I could not make the natives
                    understand that I wished to turn, and while I was screaming “No, no,” and
                    trying, to withdraw my stiffened limbs from the stirrups, the noose was put
                    round the mare's nose, and she went in. It was
                    horrible to know that into the chasm as the others went I too must go, and in
                    the mare went with a blind plunge. With violent plunging and struggling she got
                    her fore feet on the rock, but just as she was jumping up to it altogether she
                    slipped back snorting into the hole, and the water went over my eyes. I struck
                    her with my spurs, the men screeched and shouted, the hinder man jumped in, they
                    both tugged at the lasso, and slipping and struggling, the animal gained the
                    rock, and plunged through deep water to shore, the water covering that rock with
                    a rush of foam, being fully two feet deep.
                Kaluna came up just after we had crossed, undressed, made his clothes into a
                    bundle, and got over amphibiously, leaping, swimming, and diving, looking like a
                    water-god, with the horse and mule after him. His dexterity was a beautiful
                    sight; but on looking back I wondered how human beings ever devised to cross
                    such a flood. We got over just in time. Some travellers who reached Laupahoehoe
                    shortly after we left, more experienced than we were, suffered a two days'
                    detention rather than incur a similar risk. Several mules and horses, they say,
                    have had their legs broken in crossing this gulch by getting them fast between
                    the rocks.
                Shortly after this, Deborah uttered a delighted exclamation, and her pretty face
                    lighted up, and I saw her husband spurning along the top of the next pali, and he presently joined us, and I exchanged
                    my tired mare for his fresh, powerful horse. He knew that a freshet was
                    imminent, and believing that we should never leave Laupahoehoe, he was setting
                    off, provided with tackle for getting himself across, intending to join us, and
                        remain with us till the rivers fell. The
                    presence of a responsible white man seemed a rest at once. We had several more
                    gulches to cross, but none of them were dangerous; and we rode the last seven
                    miles at a great pace, though the mire and water were often up to the horses'
                    knees, and came up to Onomea at full gallop, with spirit and strength enough for
                    riding other twenty miles. Dry clothing, hot baths, and good tea followed
                    delightfully upon our drowning ride. I remained over Sunday at Onomea, and
                    yesterday rode here with a native in heavy rain, and received a warm welcome.
                    Our adventures are a nine days' wonder, and every one says that if we had had a
                    white man or an experienced native with us, we should never have been allowed to
                    attempt the perilous ride. I feel very thankful that we are living to tell of
                    it, and that Deborah is not only not worse but considerably better. E— will
                    expect some reflections; but none were suggested at the time, and I will not now
                    invent what I ought to have thought and felt.
                Due honour must be given to the Mexican saddle. Had I been on a side-saddle, and
                    encumbered with a riding-habit, I should have been drowned. I feel able now to
                    ride anywhere and any distance upon it, while Miss Karpe, who began by being
                    much stronger than I was, has never recovered from the volcano ride, and seems
                    quite ill.
                Last night Kilauea must have been tremendously active. At ten P.M., from the
                    upper verandah, we saw the whole western sky fitfully illuminated, and the glare
                    reddened the snow which is lying on Mauna Loa, an effect of fire on ice which
                    can rarely be seen.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XII.
                
                    HILO, February 22.
                
                MY sojourn here is very pleasant, owing to the kindness and
                    sociability of the people. I think that so much culture and such a variety of
                    refined tastes can seldom be found in so small a community. There have been
                    pleasant little gatherings for sewing, while some gentlemen read aloud,
                    fern-printing in the verandah, microscopic and musical evenings, little social
                    luncheons, and on Sunday evenings what is colloquially termed, “a sing,” at this
                    most social house. One of the things I have specially enjoyed has been spending
                    an afternoon at the Rev. Titus Coan's. He is not only one of the most venerable
                    of the remaining missionaries, but such an authority on the Hawaiian volcanoes
                    as to entitle him to be designated “the high-priest of Pélé!” In his modest
                    quiet way he told thrilling stories of the old missionary days.
                As you know, the islands cast off idolatry in 1819, but it was not till 1835 that
                    Mr. and Mrs. Coan arrived in Hilo, where Mr. and Mrs. Lyman had been toiling for
                    some time, and had produced a marked change on the social condition of the
                    people. Mr. C. was a fervid speaker, and physically very robust, and when he had
                    mastered the language, he undertook much of the travelling and touring, and Mr. Lyman took charge of the home mission
                    station, and the boarding and industrial school which he still indefatigably
                    superintends. There were 15,000 natives then in the district, and its extremes
                    were 100 miles apart. Portions of it could only be reached with peril to limbs
                    and even life. Horses were only regarded as wild animals in those days, and Mr.
                    C. traversed on foot the district I have just returned from, not lazily riding
                    down the gulch sides, but climbing, or being let down by ropes from tree to
                    tree, and from crag to crag. In times of rain like last week, when it was
                    impossible to ford the rivers, he sometimes swam across, with a rope to prevent
                    him from being carried away, through others he rode on the broad shoulders of a
                    willing native, while a company of strong men locked hands and stretched
                    themselves across the torrent, between him and the cataract, to prevent him from
                    being carried over in case his bearer should fall. This experience was often
                    repeated three or four times a day. His smallest weekly number of sermons was
                    six or seven, and the largest from twenty-five to thirty. He often travelled in
                    drowning rain, crossed dangerous streams, climbed slippery precipices, and
                    frequently preached in wind and rain with all his garments saturated. On every
                    occasion he received aid from the natives, who were so kind and friendly, that
                    when he used to sleep in the woods at night, he hung his watch on a tree,
                    knowing that it was perfectly safe from pilfering or curious touch. Indeed the
                    Christian teachers seem to have been regarded as tabu.
                
                Before the end of that year, Mr. Coan had made the circuit of Hawaii, a foot and
                    canoe trip of 300 miles, in which he nearly suffered canoe-wreck twice. In all,
                    he has admitted into the Christian church by baptism, 12,000 persons, besides
                    4000 infants. He gave a most interesting account of one great baptism. The
                    greatest care was previously taken in selecting, teaching, watching, and
                    examining the candidates. Those from the distant villages came and spent several
                    months here for preliminary instruction. Many of these were converts of two
                    years' standing, a larger class had been on the list for more than a year, and a
                    smaller one for a lesser period. The accepted candidates were announced by name
                    several weeks previously, and friends and enemies everywhere were called upon to
                    testify all that they knew about them. On the first Sunday in July, 1838, 1705
                    persons, formerly heathens, were baptised. They were seated close together on
                    the earth-floor in rows, with just space between for one to walk, and Mr. Lyman
                    and Mr. Coan passing through them, sprinkled every bowed head, after which Mr.
                    C. admitted the weeping hundreds into the fellowship of the Universal Church by
                    pronouncing the words, “I baptise you all in the Name of the Father, and of the
                    Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” After this, 2400 converts received the Holy
                    Communion. I give Mr. C.'s own words concerning those who partook of it, “who
                    truly and earnestly repented of their sins, and steadfastly purposed to lead new
                    lives.” “The old and decrepit, the lame, the blind, the maimed, the withered,
                    the paralytic, and those afflicted with divers diseases and torments; those with eyes, noses, lips, and limbs
                    consumed; with features distorted, and figures depraved and loathsome: these
                    came hobbling upon their staves, or led and borne by others to the table of the
                    Lord. Among the throng you would have seen the hoary priest of idolatry, with
                    hands but recently washed from the blood of human victims, together with
                    thieves, adulterers, highway robbers, murderers, and mothers whose hands reeked
                    with the blood of their own children. It seemed like one of the crowds the
                    Saviour gathered, and over which He pronounced the words of healing.”
                Though the people cast off idolatry in 1819, before the arrival of the
                    missionaries, they were very indifferent to Christian teaching until 1837, the
                    year before the great baptism, when a great religious stir began, and for four
                    years affected all the islands. I wish you could have heard Mr. C. and Mrs.
                    Lyman tell of that stirring time, when nearly all the large population of the
                    Hilo and Puna districts turned out to hear the Gospel, and how the young people
                    went up into the mountains and carried the news of the love of God and the good
                    life to come to the sick and old, who were afterwards baptized, when often the
                    only water which could be obtained for the rite was that which dripped sparingly
                    from the roofs of caves. The Hawaiian notions of a future state, where any
                    existed, were peculiarly vague and dismal, and Mr. Ellis says that the greater
                    part of the people seemed to regard the tidings of ora
                        loa ia Jesu (endless life by Jesus) as the most joyful news they
                    had ever heard, “breaking upon them,” to use their own phrase, “like light in
                    the morning.” “Will my spirit never die, and
                    can this poor weak body live again?” an old chiefess exclaimed, and this
                    delighted surprise seemed the general feeling of the natives. From less
                    difficult distances the sick and lame were brought on litters and on the backs
                    of men, and the infirm often crawled to the trail by which the missionary was to
                    pass, that they might hear of this good news which had come to Hawaii-nei.
                There were but these two preachers for the 15,000 people scattered for 100 miles,
                    who were all ravenous to hear, and could not wait for the tardy modes of
                    evangelization. “If we die,” said they, “let us die in the light.” So this
                    strange thing fell out, that whole villages from miles away gathered to the
                    mission station. Two-thirds of the population of the district came in, and
                    within the radius of a mile the grass and banana houses clustered as thick as
                    they could stand. Beautiful Hilo in a short time swelled from a population of
                    1000 to 10,000; and at any hour of the day or night the sound of the conch shell
                    brought together from 3000 to 6000 worshippers. It was a vast camp-meeting which
                    continued for two years, but there was no disorder, and a decent quiet ruled
                    throughout the strangely extemporized city. A new morality, a new social order,
                    new notions on nearly all subjects, had to be inculcated as well as a new
                    religion. Mrs. C. and Mrs. L. daily assembled the women and children, and taught
                    them the habits and industries of civilization, to attend to their persons, to
                    braid hats, and to wear and make clothes.
                During this time, on November 7, 1837, one of the striking phenomena which make the islands remarkable occurred. The crescent
                    sand-beach, said to be the most beautiful in the Pacific, the fringe of palms,
                    the far-reaching groves behind, and the great ocean, slept in summer calm, as
                    they sleep to-day. Four sermons, as usual, had been preached to audiences of
                    6000 people. There had been a funeral, the natives say, though Mr. C. does not
                    remember it, and his text had been “Be ye also ready,” and larger throngs than
                    usual had followed the preachers to their homes. The fatiguing day was over, the
                    natives were singing hymns in the still evening air, and Mr. C. “had gathered
                    his family for prayers” in the very room in which he told me this story, when
                    they were startled by “a sound as if a heavy mountain had fallen on the beach.”
                    There was at once a fearful cry, wailing, and indescribable confusion. The quiet
                    ocean had risen in a moment in a gigantic wave, which, rushing in with the speed
                    of a race-horse, and uplifting itself over the shore, swept everything into
                    promiscuous ruin; men, women, children, dogs, houses, food, canoes, clothing,
                    floated wildly on the flood, and hundreds of people were struggling among the
                    billows in the midst of their earthly all. Some were dashed on the shore, some
                    were saved by friends who hurried to their aid, some were carried out to sea by
                    the retiring water, and some stout swimmers sank exhausted; yet the loss of life
                    was not nearly so great as it would have been among a less amphibious people.
                    Mr. C. described the roaring of the ocean, the cries of distress, the shrieks of
                    the perishing, the frantic rush of hundreds to the shore, and the desolation of
                    the whole neighbourhood of the beach, as
                    forming a scene of the most thrilling and awful interest.
                You will remember that I wrote from Kilauea regarding the terror which the
                    Goddess of the Crater inspired, and her high-priest was necessarily a very awful
                    personage. The particular high-priest of whom Mr. Coan told me was six feet five
                    inches in height, and his sister, who was co-ordinate with him in authority, had
                    a scarcely inferior altitude. His chief business was to keep Pélé appeased. He
                    lived on the shore, but often went up to Kilauea with sacrifices. If a human
                    victim were needed, he had only to point to a native, and the unfortunate wretch
                    was at once strangled. He was not only the embodiment of heathen piety, but of
                    heathen crime. Robbery was his pastime. His temper was so fierce and so uncurbed
                    that no native dared even to tread on his shadow. More than once he had killed a
                    man for the sake of food and clothes not worth fifty cents. He was a thoroughly
                    wicked savage. Curiosity attracted him into one of the Hilo meetings, and the
                    bad giant fell under the resistless, mysterious influence which was
                    metamorphosing thousands of Hawaiians. “I have been deceived,” he said, “I have
                    deceived others, I have lived in darkness, and did not know the true God. I
                    worshipped what was no God. I renounce it all. The true God has come. He speaks.
                    I bow down to Him. I wish to be His son.” The priestess, his sister, came soon
                    afterwards, and they remained here several months for instruction. They were
                    then about seventy years old, but they imbibed the New Testament spirit so
                    thoroughly that they became as gentle, loving,
                    and quiet as little children. After a long probationary period they were
                    baptized, and after several years of pious and lowly living, they passed gently
                    and trustfully away.
                The old church which was the scene of these earlier assemblages, came down with a
                    crash after a night of heavy rain, the large timbers, which were planted in the
                    moist earth after the fashion of the country to support the framework, having
                    become too rotten to support the weight of the saturated thatch. Without a day's
                    loss of time the people began a new church. All were volunteers, some to remove
                    from the wreck of the old building such timbers as might still be of service;
                    some to quarry stone for a foundation, an extravagance never before dreamed of
                    by an islander; some to bring sand in gourd-shells upon their heads, or
                    laboriously gathered in the folds of bark-cloth aprons; some to bring lime from
                    the coral reefs twenty feet under water; whilst the majority hurried to the
                    forest belt, miles away on the mountain side, to fell the straightest and
                    tallest trees. Then 50 or 100 men, (for in that day horses and oxen were known
                    only as wild beasts of the wilderness,) attached hawsers to the butt ends of
                    logs, and dragged them away through bush and brake, through broken ground and
                    river beds, till they deposited them on the site of the new church. The wild,
                    monotonous chant, as the men hauled in the timber, lives in the memories of the
                    missionaries' children, who say that it seemed to them as if the preparations
                    for Solomon's temple could not have exceeded the accumulations of the
                    islanders!
                
                I think that the greater number of the converts of those four years must have
                    died ere this. In 1867 the old church at Hilo was divided into seven
                    congregations, six of them with native pastors. To meet the wants of the
                    widely-scattered people, fifteen churches have been built, holding from 500 up
                    to 1000. The present Hilo church, a very pretty wooden one, cost about $14,000.
                    All these have been erected mainly by native money and labour. Probably the
                    native Christians on Hawaii are not much better or worse than Christian
                    communities elsewhere, but they do seem a singularly generous people. Besides
                    liberally sustaining their own clergy, the Hilo Christians have contributed
                    altogether $100,000 for religious purposes. Mr. Coan's native congregation,
                    sorely dwindled as it is, raises over $1200 annually for foreign missions; and
                    twelve of its members have gone as missionaries to the islands of Southern
                    Polynesia.
                Poor people! It would be unfair to judge of them as we may legitimately be judged
                    of, who inherit the influences of ten centuries of Christianity. They have only
                    just emerged from a bloody and sensual heathenism, and to the instincts and
                    volatility of these dark Polynesian races, the restraining influences of the
                    Gospel are far more severe than to our cold, unimpulsive northern natures, The
                    greatest of their disadvantages has been that some of the vilest of the whites
                    who roamed the Pacific had settled on the islands before the arrival of the
                    Christian teachers, dragging the people down to even lower depths of depravity
                    than those of heathenism, and that there are still resident foreigners who
                    corrupt and destroy them.
                
                I must tell you a story which the venerable Mrs. Lyman told me yesterday. In
                    1825, five years after the first missionaries landed, Kaapiolani, a female
                        alii of high rank, while living at
                    Kaiwaaloa (where Captain Cook was murdered), became a Christian. Grieving for
                    her people, most of whom still feared to anger Pélé, she announced that it was
                    her intention to visit Kilauea, and dare the fearful goddess to do her worst.
                    Her husband and many others tried to dissuade her, but she was resolute, and
                    taking with her a large retinue, she took a journey of one hundred miles, mostly
                    on foot, over the rugged lava, till she arrived near the crater. There a
                    priestess of Pélé met her, threatened her with the displeasure of the goddess if
                    she persisted in her hostile errand, and prophesied that she and her followers
                    would perish miserably. Then, as now, ohelo
                    berries grew profusely round the terminal wall of Kilauea, and there, as
                    elsewhere, were sacred to Pele, no one daring to eat of them till he had first
                    offered some of them to the divinity. It was usual on arriving at the crater to
                    break a branch covered with berries, and turning the face to the pit of fire, to
                    throw half the branch over the precipice, saying, “Pélé, here are your ohelos. I offer some to you, some I also eat,”
                    after which the natives partook of them freely. Kapiolani gathered and eat them
                    without this formula, after which she and her company of eighty persons
                    descended to the black edge of Hale-mau-mau. There, in full view of the fiery
                    pit, she thus addressed her followers:— “Jehovah is my God. He kindled these
                        fires. I fear not Pélé. If I
                    perish by the anger of Pélé, then you may fear the power of Pélé; but if I
                        trust in Jehovah, and he should save me from the wrath of Pélé, when I break
                        through her tabus, then you must fear and serve the Lord Jehovah. All the
                        Gods of Hawaii are vain! Great is Jehovah's goodness in sending teachers to
                        turn us from these vanities to the living God and the way of
                        righteousness!” Then they sang a hymn. I can fancy the strange
                    procession winding its backward way over the cracked, hot, lava sea, the robust
                    belief of the princess hardly sustaining the limping faith of her followers,
                    whose fears would not be laid to rest until they reached the crater's rim
                    without any signs of the pursuit of an avenging deity. It was more sublime than
                    Elijah's appeal on the soft, green slopes of Carmel, but the popular belief in
                    the Goddess of the Volcano survived this flagrant instance of her incapacity,
                    and only died out many years afterwards.
                Besides these interesting reminiscences, I have been hearing most thrilling
                    stories from Mrs. Lyman and Mr. Coan of volcanoes, earthquakes, and tidal waves.
                    Told by eye-witnesses, and on the very spot where the incidents occurred, they
                    make a profound, and, I fear, an incommunicable impression. I look on these
                    venerable people as I should on people who had seen the Deluge, or the burial of
                    Pompeii, and wonder that they eat and dress and live like other mortals! For
                    they have felt the perpetual shudder of earthquakes, and their eyes, which look
                    so calm and kind, have seen the inflowing of huge tidal waves, the dull red glow
                    of lava streams, and the leaping of fire cataracts into deep-lying pools,
                        burning them dry in a night time. There
                    were years in which there was no day in which the smoke of underground furnaces
                    was out of their sight, or night which was not lurid with flames. Once they
                    traced a river of lava burrowing its way 1500 feet below the surface, and saw it
                    emerge, break over a precipice, and fall hissing into the ocean. Once from their
                    highest mountain a pillar of fire 200 feet in diameter lifted itself for three
                    weeks 1000 feet into the air, making night day, for a hundred miles round, and
                    leaving as its monument a cone a mile in circumference. We see a clothed and
                    finished earth; they see the building of an island, layer on layer, hill on
                    hill, the naked and deformed product of the melting, forging, and welding, which
                    go on perpetually in the crater of Kilauea.
                I could fill many sheets with what I have heard, but must content myself with
                    telling you very little. In 1855 the fourth recorded eruption of Mauna Loa
                    occurred. The lava flowed directly Hilo-wards, and for several months, spreading
                    through the dense forests which belt the mountain, crept slowly shorewards,
                    threatening this beautiful portion of Hawaii with the fate of the Cities of the
                    Plain. Mr. C. made several visits to the eruption, and on each return the simple
                    people asked him how much longer it would last. For five months they watched the
                    inundation, which came a little nearer every day. Should they fly or not? Would
                    their beautiful homes become a waste of jagged lava and black sand, like the
                    neighbouring district of Puna, once as fair as Hilo?” Such questions suggested
                        themselves as they nightly watched the
                    nearing glare, till the fiery waves met with obstacles which piled them up in
                    hillocks, eight miles from Hilo, and the suspense was over. Only gigantic causes
                    can account for the gigantic phenomena of this lava-flow. The eruption travelled
                    forty miles in a straight line, or sixty, including sinuosities. It was from one
                    to three miles broad, and from five to two hundred feet deep, according to the
                    contours of the mountain slopes over which it flowed. It lasted for thirteen
                    months, pouring out a torrent of lava which covered nearly 300 square miles of
                    land, and whose volume was estimated at thirty-eight thousand millions of cubic
                    feet! In 1859 lava fountains 400 feet in height, and with a nearly equal
                    diameter, played on the summit of Mauna Loa. This eruption ran fifty miles to
                    the sea in eight days, but the flow lasted much longer, and added a new
                    promontory to Hawaii.
                These magnificent overflows, however threatening, had done little damage to
                    cultivated regions, and none to human life; and people began to think that the
                    volcano was reformed. But in 1868 terrors occurred which are without precedent
                    in island history. While Mrs. L. was giving me the narrative in her graphic but
                    simple way, and the sweet wind rustled through the palms, and brought the rich
                    scent of the ginger plant into the shaded room, she seemed to be telling me some
                    weird tale of another world. On March 27, five years ago, a series of
                    earthquakes began, and became more startling from day to day, until their
                    succession became so rapid that “the island quivered like the lid of a boiling
                    pot nearly all the time between the heavier
                    shocks. The trembling was like that of a ship struck by a heavy wave.” Then the
                    terminal crater of Mauna Loa (Mokuaweoweo) sent up columns of smoke, steam, and
                    red light, and it was shortly seen that the southern slope of its dome had been
                    rent, and that four separate rivers of molten stone were pouring out of as many
                    rents, and were flowing down the mountain sides in diverging lines. Suddenly the
                    rivers were arrested, and the blue mountain dome appeared against the still blue
                    sky without an indication of fire, steam, or smoke. Hilo was much agitated by
                    the sudden lull. No one was deceived into security, for it was certain that the
                    strangely pent-up fires must make themselves felt.
                The earthquakes became nearly continuous; scarcely an appreciable interval
                    occurred between them; “the throbbing, jerking, and quivering motions grew more
                    positive, intense, and sharp; they were vertical, rotary, lateral, and
                    undulating,” producing nausea, vertigo, and vomiting. Late in the afternoon of a
                    lovely day, April 2, the climax came. “The crust of the earth rose and sank like
                    the sea in a storm.” Rocks were rent, mountains fell, buildings and their
                    contents were shattered, trees swayed like reeds, animals were scared, and ran
                    about demented; men thought the judgment had come. The earth opened in thousands
                    of places, the roads in Hilo cracked open, horses and their riders, and people
                    afoot, were thrown violently to the ground; “it seemed as if the rocky ribs of
                    the mountains, and the granite walls and pillars of the earth were breaking
                        up.” At Kilanea the shocks were as
                    frequent as the ticking of a watch. In Kau, south of Hilo, they counted 300
                    shocks on this direful day; and Mrs. L.'s son, who was in that district at the
                    time, says that the earth swayed to and fro, north and south, then east and
                    west, then round and round, up and down, in every imaginable direction,
                    everything crashing about them, “and the trees thrashing as if torn by a strong
                    rushing wind.” He and others sat on the ground bracing themselves with hands and
                    feet to avoid being rolled over. They saw an avalanche of red earth, which they
                    supposed to be lava, burst from the mountain side, throwing rocks high into the
                    air, swallowing up houses, trees, men, and animals; and travelling three miles
                    in as many minutes, burying a hamlet, with thirty-one inhabitants and 500 head
                    of cattle. The people of the valleys fled to the mountains, which themselves
                    were splitting in all directions, and collecting on an elevated spot, with the
                    earth reeling under them, they spent the night of April 2 in prayer and singing.
                    Looking towards the shore, they saw it sink, and at the same moment a wave,
                    whose height was estimated at from forty to sixty feet, hurled itself upon the
                    coast, and receded five times, destroying whole villages, and even strong stone
                    houses, with a touch, and engulfing for ever forty-six people who had lingered
                    too near the shore.
                Still the earthquakes continued, and still the volcano gave no sign. The nerves
                    of many people gave way in these fearful days. Some tried to get away to
                    Honolulu, others kept horses saddled on which to fly, they knew not whither. The hourly question was, “What of the
                    volcano?” People put their ears to the quivering ground, and heard, or thought
                    they heard, the surgings of the imprisoned lava sea rending its way among the
                    ribs of the earth.
                Five days after the destructive earthquake of April 2, the ground south of Hilo
                    burst open with a crash and roar which at once answered all questions concerning
                    the volcano. The molten river, after travelling underground for twenty miles,
                    emerged through a fissure two miles in length with a tremendous force and
                    volume. It was in a pleasant pastoral region, supposed to be at rest for ever,
                    at the top of a grass-covered plateau sprinkled with native and foreign houses,
                    and rich in herds of cattle. Four huge fountains boiled up with terrific fury,
                    throwing crimson lava, and rocks weighing many tons, to a height of from 500 to
                    1000 feet. Mr. Whitney, of Honolulu, who was near the spot, says:—“From these
                    great fountains to the sea flowed a rapid stream of red lava, rolling, rushing,
                    and tumbling, like a swollen river, bearing along in its current large rocks
                    that made the lava foam as it dashed down the precipice and through the valley
                    into the sea, surging and roaring throughout its length like a cataract, with a
                    power and fury perfectly indescribable. It was nothing else than a river
                        of fire from 200 to 800 feet wide and twenty deep, with a speed
                        varying from ten to twenty-five miles an hour!” This same intelligent
                    observer noticed as a peculiarity of the spouting that the lava was ejected by a
                        rotary motion, and in the air both lava and stones always rotated towards the south. At
                    Kilauea I noticed that the lava was ejected in a southerly direction. From the
                    scene of these fire fountains, whose united length was about a mile, the river
                    in its rush to the sea divided itself into four streams, between which it shut
                    up men and beasts. One stream hurried to the sea in four hours, but the others
                    took two days to travel ten miles. The aggregate width was a mile and a half.
                    Where it entered the sea it extended the coast-line half a mile, but this
                    worthless accession to Hawaiian acreage was dearly purchased by the loss, for
                    ages at least, of 4000 acres of valuable pasture land, and a much larger
                    quantity of magnificent forest. The whole south-east shore of Hawaii sank from
                    four to six feet, which involved the destruction of several hamlets and the
                    beautiful fringe of cocoa-nut trees. Though the region was very thinly peopled,
                    200 houses and 100 lives were sacrificed in this week of horrors, and from the
                    reeling mountains, the uplifted ocean, and the fiery inundation, the terrified
                    survivors fled into Hilo, each with a tale of woe and loss. The number of shocks
                    of earthquake counted was 2000 in two weeks, an average of 140 a day; but on the
                    other side of the island the number was incalculable.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XIII.
                
                    
                        HILO. HAWAII. February.
                    
                    THE quiet, dreamy, afternoon existence of Hilo is
                        disturbed. Two days ago an official intimation was received that the
                        American Government had placed the U.S. ironclad “Benicia” at the disposal
                        of King Lunalilo for a cruise round Hawaii, and that he would arrive here
                        the following morning with Admiral Pennock and the U.S. generals Scholfield
                        and Alexander.
                    Now this monarchy is no longer an old-time chieftaincy, made up of calabashes
                        and poi, feather-cloaks, kahilis, and a little fuss, but has a civilized
                        constitutional king, the equal of Queen Victoria, a civil list, &c.,
                        and though Lunalilo comes here trying to be a private individual and to rest
                        from Hookupus, state entertainments, and
                        privy councils, he brings with him a royal chamberlain and an
                        adjutant-general in attendance. So the good people of Hilo have been
                        decorating their houses anew with ferns and flowers, furbishing up their
                        clothes, and holding mysterious consultations regarding etiquette and
                        entertainments, just as if royalty were about to drop down in similar
                        fashion on Bude or Tobermory. There were amusing attempts to bring about a
                        practical reconciliation between the free-and easiness of Republican notions
                        and the respect due to a sovereign who reigns by “the
                         will of the people” as well as by “the
                        grace of God,” but eventually the tact of the king made everything go
                        smoothly.
                    At eight yesterday morning the “Benicia” anchored inside the reef, and Hilo
                        blossomed into a most striking display of bunting; the Hawaiian colours,
                        eight blue, red and white stripes, with the English union in the corner, and
                        the flaunting flag of America being predominant. My heart warmed towards our
                        own flag as the soft breeze lifted its rich folds among the glories of the
                        tropical trees. Indeed, bunting to my mind never looked so well as when
                        floating and fainting among cocoa-nut palms and all the shining greenery of
                        Hilo, in the sunshine of a radiant morning. It was bright and warm, but the
                        cool bulk of Mauna Kea, literally covered with snow, looked down as winter
                        upon summer. Natives galloped in from all quarters, brightly dressed,
                        wreathed, and garlanded, delighted in their hearts at the attention paid to
                        their sovereign by a great foreign power, though they had been very averse
                        to this journey, from a strange but prevalent idea that once on board a U.S.
                        ship the king would be kidnapped and conveyed to America.
                    Lieut.-Governor Lyman and Mr. Severance, the sheriff, went out to the
                        “Benicia,” and the king landed at ten o'clock, being “graciously pleased” to
                        accept the Governor's house as his residence during his visit. The American
                        officers, naval and military, were received by the same loud, hospitable old
                        whaling captain who entertained the Duke of Edinburgh some years ago here,
                        and to judge from the hilarious sounds which came down the road from his house, they had what they would
                        call “a good time.” I had seen Lunalilo in state at Honolulu, but it was
                        much more interesting to see him here, and this royalty is interesting in
                        itself, as a thing on sufferance, standing between this helpless nationality
                        and its absorption by America. The king is a very fine-looking man of
                        thirty-eight, tall, well formed, broad-chested, with his head well set on
                        his shoulders, and his feet and hands small. His appearance is decidedly
                        commanding and aristocratic: he is certainly handsome even according to our
                        notions. He has a fine open brow, significant at once of brains and
                        straightforwardness, a straight proportionate nose, and a good mouth. The
                        slight tendency to Polynesian overfulness about his lips is concealed by a
                        well-shaped moustache. He wears whiskers cut in the English fashion. His
                        eyes are large, dark-brown of course, and equally of course, he has a superb
                        set of teeth. Owing to a slight fulness of the lower eyelid, which Queen
                        Emma also has, his eyes have a singularly melancholy expression, very alien,
                        I believe, to his character. He is remarkably gentlemanly looking, and has
                        the grace of movement which seems usual with Hawaiians. When he landed he
                        wore a dark morning suit and a black felt hat.
                    As soon as he stepped on shore, the natives, who were in crowds on the beach,
                        cheered, yelled, and waved their hats and handkerchiefs, and then a
                        procession was formed, or rather formed itself, to escort him to the
                        governor's house. A rabble of children ran in front, then came the king,
                        over whom the natives had thrown some beautiful garlands of ohia and mailé (Alyxia olivæformis), with the governor on one side and the sheriff on the
                        other, the chamberlain and adjutant-general walking behind. Then a native
                        staggering under the weight of an enormous Hawaiian flag, the Hilo band,
                        with my friend Upa beating the big drum, and an irregular rabble
                            (i.e. unorganised crowd) of men, women, and children, going
                        at a trot to keep up with the king's rapid strides. The crowd was unwilling
                        to disperse even when he entered the house, and he came out and made a short
                        speech, the gist of which was that he was delighted to see his native
                        subjects, and would hold a reception for them on the ensuing Monday, when we
                        shall see a most interesting sight, a native crowd gathered from all
                        Southern Hawaii for a hookupu, an old
                        custom, signifying the bringing of gift-offerings to a king or chief.
                    In the afternoon Dr. Wetmore and I rode to the beautiful Puna woods on a
                        botanising excursion. We were galloping down to the beach round a sharp
                        corner, when we had to pull our horses almost on their haunches to avoid
                        knocking over the king, the American admiral, the captain of the “Benicia,”
                        nine of their officers, and the two generals. When I saw the politely veiled
                        stare of the white men it occurred to me that probably it was the first time
                        that they had seen a white woman riding cavalier fashion! We had a delicious
                        gallop over the sands to the Waiakea river, which we crossed, and came upon
                        one of the vast lava-flows of ages since, over which we had to ride
                        carefully, as the pahoehoe lies in rivers,
                        coils, tortuosities, and holes partially concealed by a luxuriant growth of
                        ferns and convolvuli. The country is thickly sprinkled with cocoa-nuts and bread-fruit trees, which merge into the
                        dense, dark, glorious forest, which tenderly hides out of sight hideous
                        broken lava, on which one cannot venture six feet from the track without the
                        risk of breaking one's limbs. All these tropical forests are absolutely
                        impenetrable, except to axe and billhook, and after a trail has been
                        laboriously opened, it needs to be cut once or twice a year, so rapid is the
                        growth of vegetation. This one, through the Puna woods, only admits of one
                        person at a time. It was really rapturously lovely. Through the trees we saw
                        the soft steel-blue of the summer sky: not a leaf stirred, not a bird sang,
                        a hush had fallen on insect life, the quiet was perfect, even the ring of
                        our horses' hoofs on the lava was a discord. There was a slight coolness in
                        the air and a fresh mossy smell. It only required some suggestion of decay,
                        and the rustle of a fallen leaf now and then, to make it an exact
                        reproduction of a fine day in our English October. The forest was enlivened
                        by many natives bound for Hilo, driving horses loaded with cocoa-nuts,
                        bread-fruit, live fowls, poi and kalo, while others with difficulty urged
                        garlanded pigs in the same direction, all as presents for the king. We
                        brought back some very scarce parasitic ferns.
                
                
                    
                        HILO, February 24.
                    
                    I rode over by myself to Onomea on Saturday to get a little rest from the
                        excitements of Hilo. A gentleman lent me a strong showy mare to go out on,
                        telling me that she was frisky and must be held while I mounted; but before my feet were fairly in the stirrups,
                        she shook herself from the Chinaman who held her, and danced away. I rode
                        her five miles before she quieted down. She pranced, jumped, danced, and
                        fretted on the edge of precipices, was furious at the scow and fords, and
                        seemed demented with good spirits. Onomea looked glorious, and its serenity
                        was most refreshing. I rode into Hilo the next day in time for morning
                        service, and the mare, after a good gallop, subsided into a staidness of
                        demeanour befitting the day. Just as I was leaving, they asked me to take
                        the news to the sheriff that a man had been killed a few hours before. He
                        was riding into Hilo with a child behind him, and they went over by no means
                        one of the worst of the palis. The man and
                        horse were killed, but the child was unhurt, and his wailing among the deep
                        ferns attracted the attention of passers-by to the disaster. The natives
                        ride over these dangerous palis so
                        carelessly, and on such tired, starved horses, that accidents are not
                        infrequent. Hilo had never looked so lovely to me as in the pure bright calm
                        of this Sunday morning.
                    The verandahs of all the native houses were crowded with strangers, who had
                        come in to share in the jubilations attending the king's visit. At the risk
                        of emulating “Jenkins,” or the “Court Newsman,” I must tell you that
                        Lunalilo, who is by no means an habitual church-goer, attended Mr. Coan's
                        native church in the morning, and the foreign church at night, when the
                        choir sang a very fine anthem. I don't wish to write about his faults, which
                        have doubtless been rumoured in the English papers. It is hoped that his new responsibilities will
                        assist him to conquer them, else I fear he may go the way of several of the
                        Hawaiian kings. He has begun his reign with marked good sense in selecting
                        as his advisers confessedly the best men in his kingdom, and all his public
                        actions since his election have shown both tact and good feeling. If sons,
                        as is often asserted, take their intellects from their mothers, he should be
                        decidedly superior, for his mother, Kekauluohi, a chieftainess of the
                        highest rank, and one of the queens of Kamehameha II., who died in London,
                        was in 1839 chosen for her abilities by Kamehameha III. as his kuhina nui, or premier, an officer recognised
                        under the old system of Hawaiian government as second only in authority to
                        the king, and without whose signature even his act was not legal. As
                        Kaahumanu II. she continued to hold this important position until her death
                        in 1845.
                    But the present king does not come of the direct line of the Hawaiian kings,
                        but of a far older family. His father is a commoner, but Hawaiian rank is
                        inherited through the mother. He received a good English education at the
                        school which the missionaries established for the sons of chiefs, and was
                        noted as a very bright scholar, with an early developed taste for literature
                        and poetry. His disposition is said to be most amiable and genial, and his
                        affability endeared him especially to his own countrymen, by whom he was
                        called alii lokoimaikai, “the kind chief.”
                        In spite of his high rank, which gave him precedence of all others on the
                        islands, he was ignored by two previous governments, and often 
                            com-
                            complained
                         plained that he was never
                        allowed any opportunity of becoming acquainted with public affairs, or of
                        learning whether he possessed any capacity for business. Thus, without
                        experience, but with noble and liberal instincts, and the highest and most
                        patriotic aspirations for the welfare and improvement of his “weak little
                        kingdom,” he was unexpectedly called to the throne about three months ago,
                        amidst such an enthusiasm as had never before been witnessed on Hawaii-nei,
                        as the unanimous choice of the people. He called on Mr. Coan the day of his
                        arrival; and when the flute band of Mr. Lyman's school serenaded him, he
                        made the youths a kind address, in which he said he had been taught as they
                        were, and hoped hereafter to profit by the instruction he had received.
                    This has been a great day in Hilo. The old native custom of hookupu was revived, and it has been a most
                        interesting spectacle. I don't think I ever enjoyed sightseeing so much. The
                        weather has been splendid, which was most fortunate, for many of the natives
                        came in from distances of from sixty to eighty miles. From early daylight
                        they trooped in on their half broken steeds, and by ten o'clock there were
                        fully a thousand horses tethered on the grass by the sea. Almost every house
                        displayed flags, and the court-house, where the reception was to take place,
                        was most tastefully decorated. It is a very pretty two-storied frame
                        building, with deep double verandahs, and stands on a large lawn of fine
                            manienie grass,* with roads on three sides. Long
                        before ten, Cynodon Dactylon (?) crowds
                        had gathered outside the low walls of the lawn, natives and foreigners
                        galloped in all directions, boats and canoes enlivened the bay, bands
                        played, and the foreigners, on this occasion rather a disregarded minority,
                        assembled in holiday dress in the upper verandah of the court-house.
                        Hawaiian flags on tall bamboos decorated the little gateways which gave
                        admission to the lawn, an enormous standard on the government flagstaff
                        could be seen for miles, and the stars and stripes waved from the
                        neighbouring plantations and from several houses in Hilo. At ten punctually,
                        Lunalilo, Governor Lyman, the sheriff of Hawaii, the royal chamberlain, and
                        the adjutant-general, walked up to the court-house, and the king took his
                        place, standing in the lower verandah with his suite about him. All the
                        foreigners were either on the upper balcony, or on the stairs leading to it,
                        on which, to get the best possible view of the spectacle, I stood for three
                        mortal hours. The attendant gentlemen were well dressed, but wore “shocking
                        bad hats;” and the king wore a sort of shooting suit, a short brown cut-away
                        coat, an ash-coloured waistcoat and ash-coloured trousers with a blue
                        stripe. He stood bareheaded. He dressed in this style in order that the
                        natives might attend the reception in every-day dress, and not run the risk
                        of spoiling their best clothes by Hilo torrents. The dress of the king and
                        his attendants was almost concealed by wreaths of ohia blossoms and festoons of mailé, some of them two yards long, which had been thrown
                        over them, and which bestowed a fantastic glamour on the otherwise prosaic
                        inelegance of their European dress. But indeed the spectacle, as a whole, was altogether
                        poetical, as it was an ebullition of natural, national, human feeling, in
                        which the heart had the first place. I very soon ceased to notice the
                        incongruous elements, which were supplied chiefly by the Americans present.
                        There were Republicans by birth and nature, destitute of traditions of
                        loyalty or reverence for aught on earth; who bore on their faces not only
                        republicanism, but that quintessence of puritan republicanism which hails
                        from New England; and these were subjects of a foreign king, nay, several of
                        them office-holders who had taken the oath of allegiance, and from whose
                        lips “His Majesty, Your Majesty,” flowed far more copiously than from ours
                        which are “to the manner born.”
                    On the king's appearance, the cheering was tremendous,—regular British
                        cheering, well led, succeeded by that which is not British, “three cheers
                        and a tiger,” but it was “Hi, hi, hi, hullah!” Every hat was off, every
                        handkerchief in air, tears in many eyes, enthusiasm universal, for the
                        people were come to welcome the king of their choice; the prospective
                        restorer of the Constitution “trampled upon” by Kamehameha V., “the kind
                        chief,” who was making them welcome to his presence after the fashion of
                        their old feudal lords. When the cheering had subsided, the eighty boys of
                        Missionary Lyman's School, who, dressed in white linen with crimson leis, were grouped in a hollow square round the
                        flagstaff, sang the Hawaiian national anthem, the music of which is the same
                        as ours. More cheering and enthusiasm, and then the natives came through the
                        gate across the lawn, and up to the
                        verandah where the king stood, in one continuous procession, till 2400
                        Hawaiians had enjoyed one moment of infinite and ever to be remembered
                        satisfaction in the royal presence. Every now and then the white, pale-eyed,
                        unpicturesque face of a foreigner passed by, but these were few, and the
                        foreign school children were received by themselves after Mr. Lyman's boys.
                        The Americans have introduced the villanous custom of shaking hands at these
                        receptions, borrowing it, I suppose, from a presidential reception at
                        Washington; and after the king had gone through this ceremony with each
                        native, the present was deposited in front of the verandah, and the
                        gratified giver took his place on the grass. Not a man, woman, or child came
                        empty handed. Every face beamed with pride, wonder, and complacency, for
                        here was a sovereign for whom cannon roared, and yards were manned, of their
                        own colour, who called them his brethren.
                    The variety of costume was infinite. All the women wore the native dress, the
                        sack or holuku, many of which were black,
                        blue, green, or bright rose colour, some were bright yellow, a few were pure
                        white, and others were a mixture of orange and scarlet. Some wore very
                        pretty hats made from cane-tops, and trimmed with hibiscus blossoms or
                        passion-flowers; others wore bright-coloured handkerchiefs, knotted lightly
                        round their flowing hair, or wreaths of the Microlepia tenuifolia. Many had
                        tied bandanas in a graceful knot over the left shoulder. All wore two,
                        three, four, or even six beautiful leis,
                        besides long festoons of the fragrant mailé. Leis of the crimson ohia blossoms were universal; but besides these there were
                            leis of small red and white double
                        roses, pohas,* yellow amaranth, sugar cane tassels
                        like frosted silver, the orange pandanus, the delicious gardenia, and a very
                        few of orange blossoms, and the great granadilla or passion-flower. Few if
                        any of the women wore shoes, and none of the children had anything on their
                        heads.
                    A string of 200 Chinamen passed by, “plantation hands,” with boyish faces,
                        and cunning, almond-shaped eyes. They were dressed in loose blue denim
                        trousers with shirts of the same, fastening at the side over them, their
                        front hair closely shaven, and the rest gathered into pigtails, which were
                        wound several times round their heads. These all deposited money in the
                        adjutant-general's hand. The dress of the Hawaiian men was more varied and
                        singular than that of the women, every kind of dress and undress, with
                            leis of ohia and garlands of mailé
                        covering all deficiencies. The poor things came up with pathetic innocence,
                        many of them with nothing on but an old shirt, and cotton trousers rolled up
                        to the knees. Some had red shirts and blue trousers, others considered that
                        a shirt was an effective outer garment. Some wore highly ornamental,
                        dandified shirts, and trousers tucked into high, rusty, mud-covered boots. A
                        few young men were in white straw hats, white shirts, and white trousers,
                        with crimson leis round their hats and
                        throats. Some had diggers' scarves round their waists; but the most Physalis
                            Peruviana. effective costume
                        was sported by a few old men, who had tied crash towels over their
                        shoulders.
                    It was often amusing and pathetic at once to see them come up. Obviously,
                        when the critical moment arrived, they were as anxious to do the right thing
                        as a débutante is to back her train
                        successfully out of the royal presence at St. James's. Some were so agitated
                        at last as to require much coaching from the governor as to how to present
                        their gifts and shake hands. Some half dropped down on their knees, others
                        passionately and with tears kissed the king's hand, or grasped it
                        convulsively in both their own; while a few were so embarrassed by the
                        presents they were carrying that they had no hands at all to shake, and the
                        sovereign good-naturedly clapped them on the shoulders. Some of them, in
                        shaking hands, adroitly slipped coins into the king's palm, so as to make
                        sure that he received their loving tribute. There had been a hui, or native meeting, which had passed
                        resolutions, afterwards presented to Lunalilo, setting forth that whereas he
                        received a great deal of money in revenue from the haoles, they, his native people, would feel that he did not
                        love them if he would not receive from their own hands contributions in
                        silver for his support. So, in order not to wound their feelings, he
                        accepted these rather troublesome cash donations.
                    One woman, sorely afflicted with quaking palsy, dragged herself slowly along.
                        One hand hung by her side helpless, and the other grasped a live fowl so
                        tightly that she could not loosen it to shake hands, whereupon the king
                        raised the helpless arm, which called forth much cheering. There was one poor cripple who had only the use
                        of his arms. His knees were doubled under him, and he trailed his body along
                        the ground. He had dragged himself two miles “to lie for a moment at the
                        king's feet,” and even his poor arms carried a gift. He looked hardly like a
                        human shape, as his desire was realised; and, I doubt not, would have been
                        content then and there to die. There were ancient men, tattooed all over,
                        who had passed their first youth when the idols were cast away, and who
                        remembered the old days of tyranny when it was an offence, punishable with
                        death, for a man to let his shadow fall on the king; and when none of “the
                        swinish multitude” had any rights which they could sustain against their
                        chiefs. These came up bewildered, trembling, almost falling on their knees,
                        hardly daring to raise their eyes to the king's kind, encouraging face, and
                        bathed his hand with tears while they kissed it. Numbers of little children
                        were led up by their parents; there were babies in arms, and younglings
                        carried on parents' backs, and the king stooped and shook hands with all,
                        and even pulled out the babies' hands from under their mufflings, and the
                        old people wept, and cheers rent the air.
                    Next in interest to this procession of beaming faces, and the blaze of
                        colour, was the sight of the presents, and the ungrudging generosity with
                        which they were brought. Many of the women presented live fowls tied by the
                        legs, which were deposited, one upon another, till they formed a fainting,
                        palpitating heap under the hot sun. Some of the men brought decorated hogs
                        tied by one leg, which squealed so persistently in the presence of royalty, that they were removed to the rear.
                        Hundreds carried nets of sweet potatoes, eggs, and kalo, artistically arranged. Men staggered along in couples
                        with bamboos between them, supporting clusters of bananas weighing nearly a
                        hundredweight. Others brought yams, cocoa-nuts, oranges, onions, pumpkins,
                        early pineapples, and even the great delicious granadilla, the fruit of the
                        large passion-flower. A few maidens presented the king with bouquets of
                        choice flowers, and costly leis of the
                        yellow feathers of the Melithreptes Pacifica. There were fully two tons of
                            kalo and sweet potatoes in front of
                        the court house, hundreds of fowls, and piles of bananas, eggs, and
                        cocoa-nuts. The hookupu was a beautiful
                        sight, all the more so that not one of that radiant, loving, gift-offering
                        throng came in quest of office, or for any other thing that he could obtain.
                        It was just the old-time spirit of reverence for the man who typifies rule,
                        blended with the extreme of personal devotion to the prince whom a united
                        people had placed upon the throne. The feeling was genuine and pathetic in
                        its intensity. It is said that the natives like their king better, because
                        he was truly, “above all,” the last of a proud and imperious house, which,
                        in virtue of a pedigree of centuries, looked down upon the nobility of the
                        Kamehamehas.
                    When the last gift was deposited, the lawn in front of the court-house was
                        one densely-packed, variegated mass of excited, buzzing Hawaiians. While the
                        king was taking a short rest, two ancient and hideous females, who looked
                        like heathen priestesses, chanted a monotonous and heathenish-sounding chant or mêlé, in eulogy of some ancient idolater. It
                        just served to remind me that this attractive crowd was but one generation
                        removed from slaughter-loving gods and human sacrifices.
                    The king and his suite re-appeared in the upper balcony, where all the
                        foreigners were assembled, including the two venerable missionaries and a
                        French priest of benign aspect, and his appearance was the signal for a
                        fresh outburst of enthusiasm. Advancing to the front, he made an
                        extemporaneous speech, of which the following is a literal translation:—
                    
                        “To all present I tender my warmest aloha. This day, on which you are gathered to pay your
                            respects to me, 1 will remember to the day of my death. (Cheers.) I am
                            filled with love for you all, fellow-citizens (makaainaia), who have come here on this occasion, and for
                            all the people, because by your unanimous choice I have been made your
                            King, a young sovereign, to reign over you, and to fill the very
                            distinguished office which I now occupy. (Cheers.) You are parents to
                            me, and I will be your Father. (Tremendous cheering.) Formerly, in the
                            days of our departed ancestors, you were not permitted to approach them;
                            they and you were kept apart; but now we meet and associate together.
                            (Cheers.) I urge you all to persevere in the right, to forsake the
                            ignorant ways of the olden time. There is but one God, whom it is our
                            duty to obey. Let us forsake every kind of idolatry.
                        “In the year 1820 Rev. Messrs. Bingham, Thurston, and others came to
                            these Islands and proclaimed the Word of God. It is their teachings
                            which have enabled you to be what you are to-day. Now they have all gone
                            to that spirit land, and only Mrs. Thurston remains. We are greatly
                            indebted to them. (Cheers.) There are also among us here (alluding to
                            Revs. Coan and Lyman) old and grey-haired fathers, whose examples we
                            should endeavour to imitate, and obey their teachings.
                        “I am very glad to see the young men of the present time so well
                            instructed in knowledge—perhaps some of them are your children. You must
                            persevere in your search of wisdom and in habits of morality. Do not be
                            indolent. (Cheers.) Those who have striven hard after knowledge and good character, are the ones who
                            deserve and shall receive places of trust hereafter under the
                            government.
                        “At the present time I have four foreigners as my ministerial advisers.
                            But if, among these young men now standing before me, and under this
                            flag, there are any who shall qualify themselves to fill these
                            positions, then I will select them to fill their places. (Loud cheers.)
                                Aloha to you all.”
                    
                    His manner as a speaker was extremely good, with sufficient gesticulation for
                        the emphasis of particular points. The address was frequently interrupted by
                        applause, and when at its conclusion he bowed gracefully to the crowd and
                        said, “My aloha to you all,” the cheering
                        and enthusiasm were absolutely unbounded. And so the great hookupu ended, and the assemblage broke up into
                        knots to discuss the royal speech and the day's doings.
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XIV.
                
                    
                        HILO. HAWAII.
                    
                    THE king “signified his intention to honour Mr. and Mrs.
                        Severance with his company” on the evening of the day after the reception,
                        and this involved a regular party and supper. You can hardly imagine the
                        difficulties connected with “refreshments,” where few, if any, of the
                        materials which we consider necessary for dishes suitable for such occasions
                        can be procured at the stores, and even milk and butter are scarce
                        commodities. I had won a reputation as a cook by making a much appreciated
                        Bengal curry, and an English “roly-poly” pudding, and when I offered my
                        services, Mrs. S. kindly accepted them, and she and I, with the Chinese cook
                        and a Chinese prisoner to assist us, have been cooking for a day and a half.
                        I wanted to make a gigantic trifle, a dish not known here, and we hunted
                        every store, hoping to find almonds and raspberry jam among the “assorted
                        notions,” but in vain; however, grated cocoa-nut supplied the place of the
                        fist, and a kind friend sent a pot of the last. The Chinamen were very
                        diverting. The cook looked on, and laughed constantly, and perhaps was a
                        little jealous: at all events when he thought we had spoilt some cakes in
                        the oven, he capered into Mrs. S.'s room, gesticulating, and exclaiming
                        satirically, “Lu, Lu! cakes so good, cakes
                        so fine!” No intoxicants were to be used on the occasion, Hilo notions being
                        rigid on this subject; but I hope it was not a crime that I clandestinely
                        used two glasses of sherry, without which my trifle would have been a
                        failure. We worked hard, and made trifle, sponge cake, pound cake, spiced
                        cake, dozens of cocoa-nut cakes and drops; custards, and sandwiches of
                        potted meat, and enjoyed our preparations so much that we found it hard to
                        exchange kitchen for social duties, and go to “Father Lyman,” who
                        entertained the king and a number of Hilo folk in the evening.
                    Their rooms, not very large, were quite full. When the king entered, the
                        company received him standing, and the flute band in the verandah played the
                        national anthem, and afterwards at intervals during the evening sang some
                        Hawaiian songs of the king's composition. I was presented to him, and as he
                        is very courteous to strangers, he talked to me a good deal. He is a very
                        gentlemanly, courteous, unassuming man, hardly assuming enough in fact, and
                        apparently very intelligent and well read. I was exceedingly pleased with
                        him. He spoke a good deal of Queen Emma's reception in England, and of her
                        raptures with Venice, and some other cities of the continent. He said he had
                        the greatest desire to visit some parts of Europe, Great Britain specially,
                        because he thought that by coming in contact with some of our leading
                        statesmen, he might gain a more accurate knowledge than he possessed of the
                        principles of constitutional government. He said he hoped that in two years
                        Hawaii-nei would be so settled as to allow
                        of his travelling, and that in the meantime he was studying French with a
                        view to enjoying the continent.
                    He asked a great many questions regarding things at home, especially
                        concerning the limitation of the power of the Crown. He cannot reconcile the
                        theoretical right of the sovereign to choose his advisers with his
                        practically submitting to receive them from a Parliamentary majority. He
                        seemed to find a difficulty in understanding that the sovereign's right to
                        refuse his assent to a Bill which had passed both Houses was by no means the
                        same thing in practice as the possession of a veto. He said that in his
                        reading of our constitutional history, the power of the sovereign seemed
                        almost absolute, while if he understood facts rightly, the throne was more
                        of all “ornament,” or “figure-head,” than a power at all. He asked me if it
                        was true that Republican feeling was spreading very much in England, and if
                        I thought that the monarchy would survive the present sovereign, on whose
                        prudence and exalted virtues he seemed to think it rested. He said he
                        thought his little kingdom had aped the style of the great monarchies too
                        much, and that he should like to abolish a good many high sounding titles,
                        sinecure offices, the household troops, and some of the “imitation Pomp” of
                        his court. He said he had never enjoyed anything so much since his accession
                        as the hookupu of the morning, and asked
                        me what I thought of it. I was glad to be able to answer truthfully that I
                        had never seen a state pageant or ceremonial that I had enjoyed half so
                        much, or that had impressed me so favourably. He has a very musical voice, and a natural
                        nobility and refinement of manner, with an obvious tact and good feeling,
                        rather, I should think, the result of amiable and gentlemanly instincts than
                        of training or consideration, all which combine to make him interesting,
                        altogether apart from his position as a Polynesian sovereign.
                    Where there are no servants, a party involves the hosts and their friends in
                        the bustle of personal preparation, but all worked with a will, and by
                        sunset the decorations were completed. All the Chinese lamps in Hilo were
                        hung in the front verandah, and seats were placed in the front and side
                        verandahs, on which the drawing-room opens by four doors, so there was
                        plenty of room, though there were thirty people. The side verandah was
                        enclosed by a drapery of flags, and the whole was tastefully decorated with
                        festoons and wreaths of ferns. The king arrived early with his attendants,
                        and was received by the host and hostess, and like a perfectly civilized
                        guest, he handed Mrs. S. into the room. The great wish of the genial
                        entertainers was to prevent stiffness and give the king a really social
                        evening, so the “chair game,” magical music, and a refined kind of blind
                        man's buff, better suited to the occasion, but less “jolly” than the old
                        riotous game, were shortly introduced. Lunalilo only looked on at first, and
                        then entered into the games with a heartiness and zest which showed that he
                        at least enjoyed the evening. Supper was served at nine. Several nests of
                        Japanese tables had been borrowed, and these, dispersed about the room and
                        verandah, broke up the guests into little social knots. Three Hilo ladies and I were the waitresses, and I was
                        pleased to see that the good things were thoroughly appreciated, and that
                        the trifle was universally popular. After supper there was a little dancing,
                        and as few of the Hilo people knew any dance correctly, it was very amusing
                        for the onlookers. There was a great deal of promenading in the verandah,
                        and a great deal of talking and merriment, which were enjoyed by a crowd of
                        natives who stood the whole evening outside the garden fence. I don't think
                        that any of the Hilo people are so unhappy as to possess an evening dress,
                        and the pretty morning dresses of the ladies, and the thick boots, easy
                        morning coats, and black ties of the gentlemen, gave a jolly “break-down”
                        look to the affair, which would have been deemed inadmissible in less
                        civilized society.
                    Some of my photographs of some of our eminent literary and scientific men
                        were lying on the table, and the king in looking at them showed a surprising
                        amount of knowledge of what they had written or done, quite entitling him to
                        unite in Stanley's “Communion of Educated Men.” I had previously asked him
                        for his signature for my autograph collection, and he said he had composed a
                        stanza for me which he thought I might like to have in addition. He called
                        with it on the following afternoon, apologising for his dress, a short
                        jacket and blue trowsers, stuffed into boots plastered with mud up to the
                        knees. I was surprised when he asked me if the lines were correctly spelt,
                        for he speaks English remarkably well. They are simply a kind wish,
                        unaffectedly expressed.
                
                
                    
                    
                        HILO. HAWAII, Feb. 26.
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    “Wheresoe'er thou may'st roam,
                                    Wheresoe'er thou mak'st thy home,
                                    May God thy footsteps guide,
                                    Watch o'er thee and provide.
                                    This is my earnest prayer for thee,
                                    Welcome, stranger, from over the sea.”
                                
                            
                            LUNALILO R.
                        
                    
                    It startles one sometimes to hear American vulgarisms uttered in his
                        harmonious tones. The American admiral and generals had just arrived from
                        the volcano, stiff, sore, bruised, jaded, “done,” and the king said, “I
                        guess the Admiral's about used up.” He is really remarkably attractive, but
                        I am sorry to observe a look of irresolution about his mouth, indicative of
                        a facility of disposition capable of being turned to the worst account. I
                        think from what I have heard that the Hawaiian kings have fallen victims
                        rather to unscrupulous foreigners, than to their own bad instincts.
                    My last day has been taken up with farewell visits, and I finish this on
                        board the “Kilanuea.” Miss Karpe and I had to ride two miles, to a point at
                        which it was possible to embark without risk, a heavy surf having for three
                        weeks rendered it impossible for loaded boats to communicate with the shore
                        at Hilo. My clothes were soaked when we reached the rocks, and Upa, very
                        wet, carried us into a wet whale-boat, with water up to our ancles, which
                        brought us over a heavy sickening swell into this steamer, which is dirty as
                        well as wet. I told Upa to lead my mare, and ride his own horse, but the last I saw of him was on the mare's back,
                        racing a troop of natives along the beach.*
                    
                        I.L.B.
                    
                    
                        
                            * This was
                                almost his last exploit. A few days later the sheriff had the
                                painful duty of committing him as a leper to the leper settlement on
                                Molokai. He was a leading spirit among the Hilo natives, and his
                                joyous nature will be missed by everyone. He has left a wife and
                                some beautiful children, who, it is feared, will eventually share
                                his fate.
                        
                    
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XV.
                
                    WAIMEA. HAWAII.
                
                THERE is no limit to the oddities of the steam-ship “Kilauea.”
                    She lay rolling on the Hilo swell for two hours, and two hours after we sailed
                    her machinery broke clown, and we lay-to for five hours, in what they here call
                    a heavy gale and sea. It was a miserable night. No privacy: the saloon both hot
                    and wet, almost every one sick. I lay in my berth in my soaked clothes watching
                    the proceedings of a gigantic cockroach, and listening, not without amusement,
                    to the awful groans of a Chinaman, and a “rough customer” from California, who
                    occupied the next berths.
                In the middle of the night the water came in great dashes through the skylight
                    upon the table, and soon the saloon was afloat to the depth of from four to six
                    inches. When the “Kilauea” rolled, and the water splashed in simultaneously, we
                    were treated to vigorous “douches” in our berths, which soon saturated the
                    pillows, mattresses, and our clothing. One sea put out the lamp, and a ship's
                    lantern, making “darkness visible,” was swung in its stead. In an English ship
                    there would have been a great fuss and a great flying about of stewards, or
                    pretence of mending matters, but when the passengers shouted for our good
                    steward, the serene creature came in with a
                    melancholy smile on his face, said nothing, but quietly sat down on the transom,
                    with his bare feet in the water, contemplating it with a comic air of
                    helplessness. Breakfast, of course, could not be served, but a plate was put at
                    one end of the table for the silent old Scotch captain, who tucked up his feet
                    and sat with his oilskins and sou'-wester on, while the charming steward, with
                    trousers rolled up to his knees, waded about, pacifying us by bringing us
                    excellent curry as we sat on the edges of our berths, and putting on a sweetly
                    apologetic manner, as if penitent for the gross misbehaviour of the ship. Such a
                    man would reconcile me to far greater discomfort than that of the “Kilauea.” I
                    wonder if he is ever unamiable, or tired, or perturbed?
                The next day was fine, and we were all much on deck to dry our clothes in the
                    sun. The southern and leeward coasts of Hawaii as far as Kawaaloa are not much
                    more attractive than coal-fields. Contrasted with the shining shores of Hilo,
                    they are as dust and ashes; long reaches of black lava and miles of clinkers
                    marking the courses of lava-flows, whose black desolation and deformity nature,
                    as yet, has done almost nothing to clothe. Cocoa-nut trees usually, however,
                    fringe the shore, but were it not for the wonderful colour of the ocean, like
                    liquid transparent turquoise, revealing the coral forests shelving down into
                    purple depths, and the exciting proximity of sharks, it would have been
                    wearisome. After leaving the bay where Captain Cook met his death, we passed
                    through a fleet of twenty-seven canoes, each one hollowed out of the trunk of a
                    single tree, from fifteen to twenty-five feet
                    long, about twenty inches deep, hardly wide enough for a fat man, and high and
                    pointed at both ends. On one side there is an outrigger formed of two long bent
                    sticks, to the outer ends of which is bound a curved beam of light wood, which
                    skims along the surface of the water, rendering the canoe secure from an upset
                    on that side, while the weight of the outrigger makes an upset on the other very
                    unlikely. In calms they are paddled, and shoot over the water with great
                    rapidity, but whenever there is any breeze a small sprit-sail is used. They are
                    said to be able to stand very rough water, but they are singularly precarious
                    and irresponsible looking contrivances, and for these, as well as for all other
                    seas, I should much prefer a staunch whale-boat. We sailed for some hours along
                    a lava coast, streamless, rainless, verdureless, blazing under the fierce light
                    of a tropical sun, and some time after noon anchored in the scorching bay of
                    Kawaihae.
                A foreign store, a number of native houses, a great heiau, or heathen temple on a height, a fringe of cocoa-nut
                    palms, and a background of blazing hills, flaring with varieties of red, hardly
                    toned down by any attempt at vegetation, a crystalline atmosphere palpitating
                    with heat, deep, rippleless, clear water, with coral groves below, and a view of
                    the three great Hawaiian mountains, are the salient features of this outlet of
                    Hawaiian commerce. But ah! how soft and mild a blue the sky was, looking inland,
                    where, for the first time, I saw far aloft, above solid masses of white cloud,
                    sky hung, strangely uplifted, the great volcanic domes of Mauna Kea, Mauna Loa,
                        and Hualalai, looking as if they had all
                    passed into an endless repose.
                This bay, which affords excellent holding ground, and is screened by highlands
                    from the sudden and violent gusts of wind, called “mumuku,” which sweep down between the mountains with almost
                    irresistible fury, used to be a great place of call for whalers, who purchased
                    large quantities of “recruits” here; yams in the earlier days, and more lately
                    Irish potatoes, which flourish in the thirsty soil. But whaling in the North
                    Pacific seems to be nearly “played out,” and the arrival of a whaler is not a
                    common occurrence.
                Shortly before we arrived I found that the sailing of the San Francisco steamer
                    is put off for a week, so I took advantage of a kind invitation I received some
                    time ago to visit Waimea, and go from thence to Waimanu, a wonderful valley
                    beyond Waipio, very little visited by foreigners. A gentleman and lady rode up
                    here with me, and I got a horse on the beach with a native bullock saddle on
                    him, an uncouth contrivance of wood not covered with hide, and a strong lassoing
                    horn. The great wooden stirrups could not be shortened, but I soon found myself
                    able, in true savage fashion, to gallop up and down hill without any.
                The chief object of interest on this ride is the great heiau, which stands on a bare steep hill above the sea, not easy
                    of access. It was the last heathen temple built on Hawaii. On entering the huge
                    pile, which stood gaunt and desolate in the thin red air, the story of the old
                    bloody heathenism of the islands flashed upon my memory. The entrance is by a narrow passage between two high walls, and it
                    was by this that the sacrificing priests dragged the human victims into the
                    presence of Tairi, a hideous wooden idol, crowned with a helmet, and covered
                    with red feathers, the favourite war-god of Kamehameha the Great, by whom this
                    temple was built, before he proceeded to the conquest of Oahu.
                The shape is an irregular parallelogram, 224 feet long, and 100 wide. At each
                    end, and on the mauka side, the walls, which
                    are very solid and compact, though built of lava stones without mortar, are
                    twenty feet high, and twelve feet wide at the bottom, but narrow gradually
                    towards the top, where they are finished with a course of smooth stones six feet
                    broad. On the sea side, the wall, which has been partly thrown down, was not
                    more than six or seven feet high, and there were paved platforms for the
                    accommodation of the alii, or chiefs, and the
                    people in their orders. The upper terrace is spacious, and paved with flat
                    smooth stones which were brought from a considerable distance, the greater part
                    of the population of the island having been employed on the building. At the
                    south end there was an inner court, where the principal idol stood, surrounded
                    by a number of inferior deities, for the Hawaiians had “gods many, and lords
                    many.” Here also was the anu, a lofty frame of
                    wickerwork, shaped like an obelisk, hollow, and five feet square at its base.
                    Within this, the priest, who was the oracle of the god, stood, and of him the
                    king used to inquire concerning war or peace, or any affair of national
                    importance. It appears that the tones of the oracular voice were more distinct than the meaning of the
                    utterances. However, the supposed answers were generally acted upon.
                On the outside of this inner court was the lélé, or altar, on which human and other sacrifices were offered. On
                    the day of the dedication of the temple to Tairi, vast offerings of fruit, dogs,
                    and hogs were presented, and eleven human beings were immolated on the altar.
                    These victims were taken from among captives, or those who had broken Tabu, or had rendered themselves obnoxious to the
                    chiefs, and were often blind, maimed, or crippled persons. Sometimes they were
                    dispatched at a distance with a stone or club, and their bodies were dragged
                    along the narrow passage up which I walked shuddering; but oftener they were
                    bound and taken alive into the heiau to be
                    slain in the outer court. The priests, in slaying these sacrifices, were careful
                    to mangle the bodies as little as possible. From two to twenty were offered at
                    once. They were laid in a row with their faces downwards on the altar before the
                    idol, to whom they were presented in a kind of prayer by the priest, and, if
                    offerings of hogs were presented at the same time, these were piled upon them,
                    and the whole mass was left to putrify.
                The only dwellings within the heiau were those
                    of the priests, and the “sacred house” of the king, in which he resided during
                    the seasons of strict Tabu. A doleful place
                    this heiau is, haunted not only by the
                    memories of almost unimaginable terrors, but by the sore thought that
                    generations of Hawaiians lived and died in the unutterable darkness of this ignorant worship, passing in long
                    procession from these grim rites into the presence of the Father whose infinite
                    compassions they had never known.
                Every hundred feet of ascent from the rainless, fervid beach of Kawaihae
                    increased the freshness of the temperature, and rendered exercise more
                    delightful. From the fringe of palms along the coast to the damp hills north of
                    Waimea, a distance of ten miles, there is not a tree or stream, though the
                    scorched earth is deeply scored by the rush of fierce temporary torrents.
                    Hitherto, I have only travelled over the green coast which faces the trade
                    winds, where clouds gather and shed their rains, and this desert, which occupies
                    a great part of leeward Hawaii, displeases me. It lies burning in the fierce
                    splendours of a zone, which, until now, I had forgotten was the torrid zone,
                    unwatered and unfruitful, red and desolate under the sun. The island is here
                    only twenty-two miles wide, and strong winds sweep across it, whirling up its
                    surface in great brown clouds, so that the uplands in part appear a smoking
                    plain, backed by naked volcanic cones. No water, no grass, no ferns. Some
                    thornless thistles, a little brush of sapless-looking indigo, and some species
                    of composite struggle for a doleful existence. There is nothing tropical about
                    it but the intense heat. The red soil becomes suffused with a green tinge ten
                    miles from the beach, and at the summit of the ascent the desert blends with
                    this beautiful Waimea plain, one of the most marked features of Hawaii. The air
                    became damp and cool; miles of fine smooth green grass stretched out before us; high hills, broken, pinnacled, wooded,
                    al cleft with deep ravinies, rose on our left; we heard the dash and music of
                    falling water: to the north it was like the Munster Thal, to the south
                    altogether volcanic. The tropics had vanished. There were frame houses sheltered
                    from the winds by artificial screens of mulberry trees, and from the incursions
                    of cattle by rough walls of lava stones five feet high; a mission and court
                    house, a native church, much too large for the shrunken population, and other
                    indications of an inhabited region. Except for the woods which clothe the hills,
                    the characteristic of the scenery is baldness.
                On clambering over the wall which surrounds my host's kraal of dwellings, I heard
                    in the dusk strange sweet voices crying rudely and emphatically, “Who are you?
                    What do you want?” and was relieved to find that the somewhat inhospitable
                    interrogation only proceeded from two Australian magpies. Mr. S— is a Tasmanian,
                    married to a young half-white lady: and her native mother and seven or eight
                    dark girls are here, besides a number of natives and Chinese, and half Chinese,
                    who are employed about the place. Sheep are the source of my host's wealth. He
                    has 25,000 at three stations on Mauna Kea, and, at an altitude of 6000 feet they
                    flourish, and are free from some of the maladies to which they are liable
                    elsewhere. Though there are only three or four sheep owners on the islands, they
                    exported 288,526 lbs. of wool last year.*
                    Mr. S.— has also 1000 head of cattle and 50 horses.
                * In 1873 the export
                    of wool had increased to 329,507 lbs.
                
                The industry of Waimea is cattle raising, and some feeble attempts are being made
                    to improve the degenerate island breed by the importation of a few short-horn
                    cows from New Zealand. These plains afford magnificent pasturage as well as
                    galloping ground. They are a very great thoroughfare. The island, which is an
                    equilateral triangle, about 300 miles in “circuit,” can only be crossed here.
                    Elsewhere, an impenetrable forest belt, and an impassable volcanic wilderness,
                    compel travellers to take the burning track of adamant which snakes round the
                    southern coast, when they are minded to go from one side of Hawaii to the other.
                    Waimea also has the singular distinction of a road from the beach, which is
                    traversed on great occasions by two or three oxen and mule teams, and very
                    rarely by a more ambitions conveyance. There are few hours of day or night in
                    which the tremulous thud of shoeless horses galloping on grass is not heard in
                    Waimea.
                The altitude of this great table-land is 2500 feet, and the air is never too hot,
                    the temperature averaging 64° Fahrenheit. There is mist or rain on most days of
                    the year for a short time, and the mornings and evenings are clear and cool. The
                    long sweeping curves of the three great Hawaiian mountains spring from this
                    level. The huge bulk of Mauna Kea without shoulders or spurs, rises directly
                    from the Waimea level on the south to the altitude of 14,000 feet, and his base
                    is thickly clustered with tufa-cones of a bright red colour, from 300 to 1000
                    feet in height. Considerably further back, indeed forty miles away, the smooth
                    dome of Mauna Loa appears very serene now, but
                    only thirteen years ago the light was so brilliant, from one of its tremendous
                    eruptions, that here it was possible to read a newspaper by it, and during its
                    height candles were unnecessary in the evenings! Nearer the coast, and about
                    thirty miles from here, is the less conspicuous dome of the dead volcano of
                    Hualalai. If all Hawaii, south of Waimea, were submerged to a depth of 8000
                    feet, three nearly equi-distant, dome-shaped volcanic islands would remain, the
                    highest of which would have an altitude of 6000 feet. To the south of these
                    plains violent volcanic action is everywhere apparent, not only in tufa cones,
                    but in tracts of ashes, scoriæ, and volcanic sand. Near the centre there are
                    some very curious caves, possibly “lava bubbles,” which were used by the natives
                    as places of sepulture. The Kohala hills, picturesque, wooded, and abrupt, bound
                    Waimea on the north, with their exquisite grassy slopes, and bring down an
                    abundance of water to the plain, but owing to the lightness of the soil and the
                    evaporation produced by the tremendous winds, the moisture disappears within two
                    miles of the hills, and an area of rich soil, ten miles by twelve, which, if
                    irrigated, would be invaluable, is nothing but a worthless dusty desert,
                    perpetually encroaching on the grass. As soon as the plains slope towards the
                    east, the vegetation of the tropics reappears, and the face of the country is
                    densely covered with a swampy and impenetrable bush hardly at all explored,
                    which shades the sources of the streams which fall into the Waipio and Waimanu
                    Valleys, and is supposed to contain water
                    enough to irrigate the Saharas of leeward Hawaii.
                The climate of the plain is most invigorating. If there were waggon roads and
                    obtainable comforts, Waimea, with its cool equable temperature, might become the
                    great health resort of invalids from the Pacific coast. But Hawaii is not a
                    place for the sick or old; for, if people cannot ride on horseback, they can
                    have neither society nor change. Mr. Lyons, one of the most famous of the early
                    missionaries, still clings to this place, where he has worked for forty years.
                    He is an Hawaiian poet; and, besides translating some of our best hymns, has
                    composed enough to make up the greater part of a bulky volume, which is said to
                    be of great merit. He says that the language lends itself very readily to
                    rhythmical expression. He was indefatigable in his youth, and was four times let
                    down the pali by ropes to preach in the
                    Waimanu Valley. Neither he nor his wife can mount a horse now, and it is very
                    dreary for them, as the population has receded and dwindled from about them.
                    Their house is made lively, however, by some bright little native girls, who
                    board with them, and receive an English and industrial education.
                The moral atmosphere of Waimea has never been a wholesome one. The region was
                    very early settled by a class of what may be truly termed “mean whites,” the
                    “beach-combers” and riff-raff of the Pacific. They lived infamous lives, and
                    added their own to the indigenous vices of the islands, turning the district
                    into a perfect sink of iniquity, in which they were known by such befitting aliases as “Jake the Devil,” &c. The coming of the
                    missionaries, and the settlement of moral, orderly whites on Hawaii, have slowly
                    created a public opinion averse to flagrant immorality, and the outrageous
                    license of former years would now meet with legal penalties. Many of the old
                    settlers are dead, and others have drifted to regions beyond restraining
                    influences, but still “the Waimea crowd” is not considered up to the mark. Most
                    of the present set of foreigners are Englishmen who have married native women.
                    It was in such quarters as this that the great antagonistic influence to the
                    complete Christianization of the natives was created, and it is from such
                    suspicious sources that the aspersions on missionary work are usually
                    derived.
                Waimea has its own beauty—the grand breezy plain, the gigantic sweep of the
                    mountain curves, the incessant changes of colour, and the morning view of Mauna
                    Kea, with the pure snow on its ragged dome, rose-flushed in the early sunlight.
                    I don't agree with Disraeli that “happiness is atmosphere;” yet constant
                    sunshine, and a climate which never threatens one with discomfort or ills,
                    certainly conduce to equable cheerfulness.
                I am quite interested with a native lady here, the first I have met with who has
                    been able to express her ideas in English. She is extremely shrewd and
                    intelligent, very satirical, and a great mimic. She very cleverly burlesques the
                    way in which white people express their admiration of scenery, and, in fact,
                    ridicules admiration of scenery for itself. She evidently thinks us a sour,
                    morose, worrying, forlorn race. “We,” she said, “are always happy; we never grieve long about any thing;
                    when any one dies we break our hearts for some days, and then we are happy
                    again. We are happy all day long, not like white people, happy one moment,
                    gloomy another: we've no cares, the days are too short. What are haoles always unhappy about?” Perhaps she expresses
                    the general feeling of her careless, pleasure-loving, mirth-loving people, who,
                    whatever commands they disobey, fulfil the one, “Take no thought for the
                    morrow.” The fabrication of the beautiful quilts I before wrote of is a
                    favourite occupation of native women, and they make all their own and their
                    husbands' clothes; but making leis, going into
                    the woods to collect materials for them, talking, riding, bathing, visiting, and
                    otherwise amusing themselves, take up the greater part of their time. Perhaps if
                    we white women always wore holukus of one
                    shape, we should have fewer gloomy moments!
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
                    
                
                
                LETTER XVI.
                
                    
                        WAIMANU VALLEY. HAWAII.
                    
                    I AM sitting at the door of a grass lodge, at the end of
                        all things, for no one can pass further by land than this huge lonely cleft.
                        About thirty natives are sitting about me, all staring, laughing, and
                        chattering, and I am the only white person in the region. We have all had a
                        meal, sitting round a large calabash of poi and a fowl, which was killed in my honour, and roasted in
                        one of their stone ovens. I have forgotten my knife, and have had to help
                        myself after the primitive fashion of aborigines, not without some fear, for
                        some of them I am sure are in an advanced stage of leprosy. The brown
                        tattooed limbs of one man are stretched across the mat, the others are
                        sitting cross-legged, making lauhala leis.
                        One man is making fishing-lines of a beautifully white and marvellously
                        tenacious fibre, obtained from an Hawaiian “flax” plant (possibly Urtica argentea), very different from the New
                        Zealand Phornium tenax. Nearly all the
                        people of the valley are outside, having come to see the wahine haole: only one white woman, and she a
                        resident of Hawaii, having been seen in Waimanu before. I am really alone,
                        miles of mountain and gulch he between me and the nearest whites. This is a
                        wonderful place: a ravine about three miles long and three-quarters of a mile wide, without an obvious
                        means of ingress, being walled in by precipices from 2000 to 4000 feet high.
                        Five cascades dive from the palis at its
                        head, and unite to form a placid river about up to a horse's body here, and
                        deep enough for a horse to swim in a little below. Dense forests of various
                        shades of green fill up the greater part of the valley, concealing the
                        basins into which the cascades leap, and the grey basalt of the palis is mostly hidden by greenery. At the open
                        end, two bald bluffs, one of them 2000 feet in height, confront the Pacific,
                        and its loud booming surf comes up to within one hundred yards of the house
                        where I am writing, but is banked off by a heaped-up barrier of colossal
                        shingle.
                    Hot and silent, a sunset world of an endless afternoon, it seems a palpable
                        and living dream. And a few of these people, I understand, have dreamed away
                        their lives here, never having been beyond their valley, at least by land.
                        But it is a dream of ceaseless speech and rippling laughter. They are the
                        merriest people I have yet seen, and doubtless their isolated life is dear
                        to them.
                    I wish I could sketch this most picturesque scene. In the verandah, which is
                        formed of mats, two handsome youths, and five women in green, red, and
                        orange chemises, all with leis of ferns
                        round their hair, are reclining on the ground. Outside of this there is a
                        pavement of large lava stones, and groups in all colours, wreathed and
                        garlanded, including some much disfigured old people, crouching in red and
                        yellow blankets, are sitting and lying there. Some are fondling small dogs;
                        and a number of large ones, with a whole
                        tribe of amicable cats, are picking bones. Surf-boards, paddles, saddles,
                        lassos, spurs, gear, and bundles of ti
                        leaves are lying about. Thirteen horses are tethered outside, some of which
                        brought the riders who escorted me triumphantly from the head of the valley.
                        The foreheads of the precipices opposite are reddening in the sunset, and
                        between them and me horses and children are constantly swimming across the
                        broad, still stream which divides the village into two parts; and now and
                        then a man in a malo, and children who
                        have come up the river swimming, with their clothes in one hand, increase
                        the assemblage.
                    All are intently watching me, but are as kind and good-natured as possible;
                        and my guide from Waipio is discoursing to them about me. He knows a little
                        abrupt, disjointed, almost unintelligible English, and comes up every now
                        and then with an interrogation in his manner, “Father? mother? married?
                        watch? How came?” “You” appears beyond his efforts. “Kilauea?
                        Lunalilo?” Then he goes back and orates
                        rapidly, gesticulating emphatically. A very handsome, pleasant-looking man,
                        with a red sash round his waist, who, I understand from signs, is the
                        schoolmaster, emerged from the throng, and sat down beside me; but his
                        English appears limited to these words, “How old?” When I told him by
                        counting on my fingers he laughed heartily, and said “Too old,” and he told
                        the others, and they all laughed. I have photographs of Queen Victoria and
                        Mr. Coan in my writing-book, and when I exhibited them they crowded round me
                        clapping their hands, and screaming with
                        delight when they recognized Mr. Coan. The king's handwriting was then
                        handed round amidst reverent “ahs” and “ohs,” or what sounded like them.
                        This letter was also passed round and examined lengthwise, sidewise, and
                        upside down. They shrieked with satirical laughter when I pressed some
                        fragile ferns in my blotting-book. The natives think it quite idiotic in us
                        to attach any value to withered leaves. My inkstand with its double-spring
                        lids has been a great amusement. Each one opened both, and shut them again,
                        and a chorus of “maikai, maikai,” (good)
                        ran round the circle. They seem so simple and good that at last I have
                        trusted them with my watch, which excites unbounded admiration, probably
                        because of its small size. It is now on its travels; but I am not the least
                        anxious about it. A man pointed to a hut some distance on the other side of
                        the river, and appeared interrogative, and on my replying affirmatively, he
                        mounted a horse and carried off the watch in the direction indicated. Mr.
                        Ellis came to this valley in a canoe, and he mentions that when he preached,
                        the natives, who seemed to be very indifferent to the general truths of
                        Christianity, became very deeply interested when they heard of Ora loa ia Jesu (endless life by Jesus). While
                        I was up the valley the poor people made a wonderful bed of seven fine mats,
                        one over the other, on one side of the house, and screened it off with a
                        flaring muslin curtain; but on the other side there are ten pillows in a
                        row, so that I wonder how many are to occupy the den during the night. I am
                        now writing inside the house, with a hollowed stone, with some beef fat and
                        a wick in it, for a light, and two youths seem delegated to attend upon me. One holds my ink,
                        and if I look up, the other rushes for something that I am supposed to want.
                        They insist on thinking that I am cold because my clothes are wet, and have
                        thrown over me several folds of tapa, made
                        from the inner bark of the wauti or cloth
                        plant (Broussonetia papyrifera). They
                        brought me a kalo leaf containing a number
                        of living freshwater shrimps, and were quite surprised when I did not eat
                        them.
                
                
                    
                        WAIPIO, March 5th.
                    
                    It seems fully a week since I left Waimea yesterday morning, so many new
                        experiences have been crowded into the time. I will try to sketch my
                        expedition while my old friend Halemanu is preparing dinner. The morning
                        opened gloriously. The broad Waimea plains were flooded with red and gold,
                        and the snowy crest of Mauna Kea was cloudless. We breakfasted by lamp light
                        (the days of course are short in this latitude), and were away before six.
                        My host kindly provided me with a very fine horse and some provisions in a
                        leather wallet, and with another white man and a native accompanied me as
                        far as this valley, where they had some business. The morning deepened into
                        gorgeousness. A blue mist hung in heavy folds round the violet bases of the
                        mountains, which rose white and sharp into the rose-flushed sky; the dew lay
                        blue and sparkling on the short crisp grass; the air was absolutely pure,
                        and with a suspicion of frost in it. It was all very fair, and the horses
                        enjoyed the morning freshness, and danced and champed their bits as though they disliked being reined in. We rode
                        over level grass-covered ground, till we reached the Hamakua bush, fringed
                        with dead trees, and full of ohias and
                        immense fern trees, some of them with a double tier of fronds, far larger
                        and finer than any that I saw in New Zealand. There are herds of wild goats,
                        cattle, and pigs on the island, and they roam throughout this region,
                        trampling, grubbing, and rending, grinding the bark of the old trees and
                        eating up the young ones. This ravaging is threatening at no distant date to
                        destroy the beauty and alter the climate of the mountainous region of
                        Hawaii. The cattle are a hideous breed—all bones, hide, and horns.
                    We were at the top of the Waipio pali at
                        eight, and our barefooted horses, used to the soft pastures of Waimea,
                        refused to carry us down its rocky steep, so we had to walk. I admired this
                        lonely valley far more than before. It was full of infinite depths of
                        blue—blue smoke in lazy spirals curled upwards; it was eloquent in a morning
                        silence that I felt reluctant to break. Against its dewy greenness the beach
                        shone like coarse gold, and its slow silver river lingered lovingly, as
                        though loth to leave it, and be merged in the reckless loud-tongued Pacific.
                        Across the valley, the track I was to take climbed up in thready zigzags,
                        and disappeared round a bold headland. It was worth a second visit just to
                        get a glimpse of such a vision of peace.
                    Halemanu, with hospitable alacrity, soon made breakfast ready, after which
                        Mr. S., having arranged for my further journey, left me here, and for the
                        first time I found myself alone among
                        natives ignorant of English. For the Waimanu trip it is essential to have a
                        horse bred in the Waimanu Valley and used to its dizzy palis, and such a horse was procured, and a
                        handsome native, called Hananui, as guide. We were away by ten, and galloped
                        across the valley till we came to the nearly perpendicular pali on the other side. The sight of this
                        air-hung trail from Halemanu's house has turned back several travellers who
                        were bent on the trip, but I had been told that it was quite safe on a
                        Waimanu horse; and keeping under my fears as best I could, I let Hananui
                        precede me, and began the ascent, which is visible from here for an hour.
                        The pali is as nearly perpendicular as can
                        be. Not a bush or fern, hardly a tuft of any green thing, clothes its bare,
                        scathed sides. It terminates precipitously on the sea at a height of 2000
                        feet. Up this shelving wall, something like a sheep track, from thirty to
                        forty-six inches broad, goes in great swinging zigzags, sometimes as broken
                        steps of rock breast high, at others as a smooth ledge with hardly foothold,
                        in three places canied away by heavy rains—altogether the most frightful
                        track that imagination can conceive.*
                        It was most unpleasant to see the guide's horse straining and scrambling,
                        looking every now and then as if about to fall over backwards. My horse went
                        up wisely and nobly, but slipping, jumping, scrambling, and sending stones
                        over the ledge, now and then hanging for a second by his fore feet. The
                        higher * The
                            Inspector of Schools has since told me that there is a track as bad, if
                            not worse, in the Hana district on Maui. we went the narrower and worse it grew. The girth
                        was loose, so as not to impede the horse's respiration, the broad cinch
                        which usually passes under the body having been fastened round his chest,
                        and yet it was once or twice necessary to run the risk of losing my balance
                        by taking my left foot out of the stirrup to press it against the horse's
                        neck to prevent it from being crushed, while my right hung over the
                        precipice. He came to a place where the path had been carried away, leaving
                        a declivity of loose sand and gravel. You can hardly realize how difficult
                        it was to dismount, when there was no margin outside the horse. I somehow
                        slid under him, being careful not to turn the saddle, and getting hold of
                        his hind leg, screwed myself round carefully behind him. It was alarming to
                        see these sure-footed creatures struggle and slide in the deep gravel as
                        though they must go over, and not less so to find myself sliding, though I
                        was grasping my horse's tail.
                    Between the summit and Waimanu, a distance of ten miles, there are nine
                        gulches, two of them about 900 feet deep, all very beautiful, owing to the
                        broken ground, the luxuriant vegetation, and the bright streams, but the
                            kona, or south wind, was blowing,
                        bringing up the hot breath of the equatorial belt, and the sun was perfectly
                        unclouded, so that the heat of the gorges was intense. They succeed each
                        other occasionally with very great rapidity. Between two of the deepest and
                        steepest there is a ridge not more than fifty yards wide.
                    Soon after noon we simultaneously stopped our horses. The Waimanu Valley lay
                        2500 feet (it is said) below us, and the
                        trail struck off into space. It was a scene of loneliness to which Waipio
                        seems the world. In a second the eye took in the twenty grass lodges of its
                        inhabitants, the five cascades which dive into the dense forests of its
                        upper end, its river like a silver ribbon, and its meadows of living green.
                        In ten seconds a bird could have spanned the ravine and feasted on its
                        loveliness, but we could only tip over the dizzy ridge that overhangs the
                        valley, and laboriously descend into its heat and silence. The track is as
                        steep and broken as that which goes up from hence, but not nearly so narrow,
                        and without its elements of terror, for kukuis, lauhalas, ohias, and ti
                        trees, with a lavish growth of ferns and trailers, grow luxuriantly in every
                        damp rift of rock, and screen from view the precipices of the pali. The valley looks as if it could only be
                        reached in a long day's travel, so very far it is below, but the steepness
                        of the track makes it accessible in an hour from the summit. As we
                        descended, houses and a church which had looked like toys at first, dilated
                        on our sight, the silver ribbon became a stream, the specks on the meadows
                        turned into horses, the white wavy line on the Pacific beach turned into a
                        curling wave, and lower still, I saw people, who had seen us coming down,
                        hastily shuffling into clothes.
                    There were four houses huddled between the pali and the river, and six or eight, with a church and
                        schoolhouse on the other side; and between these and the ocean a steep
                        narrow beach, composed of large stones worn as round and smooth as cannon
                        balls, on which the surf roars the whole
                        year round. The pali which walls in the
                        valley on the other side is inaccessible. The school children and a great
                        part of the population had assembled in front of the house which I described
                        before. There was a sort of dyke of rough lava stones round it, difficult to
                        climb, but the natives, though they are very kind, did not, on this or any
                        similar occasion, offer me any help, which neglect, I suppose, arises from
                        the fact that the native women never need help, as they are as strong,
                        fearless, and active as the men, and rival them in swimming and other
                        athletic sports. An old man, clothed only with his dark skin, was pounding
                        baked kalo for poi, in front of the house; a woman with flowers in her hair,
                        but apparently not otherwise clothed, was wading up to her waist in the
                        river, pushing before her a light trumpet-shaped basket used for catching
                        shrimps, and the other women wore the usual bright-coloured chemises.
                    I wanted to make the most of the six hours of daylight left, and we remounted
                        our horses and rode for some distance up the river, which is the highway of
                        the valley, all the children swimming on our right and left, each holding up
                        a bundle of clothes with one hand, and two canoes paddled behind us. The
                        river is still and clear, with a smooth bottom, but comes halfway up a
                        horse's body, and riders take their feet out of the stirrups, bring them to
                        a level with the saddle, lean slightly back, and hold them against the
                        horse's neck. Equestrians following this fashion, canoes gliding, children
                        and dogs swimming, were a most amusing picture. Several of the children swim to and from school every day. I was
                        anxious to get rid of this voluntary escort, and we took a gallop over the
                        soft springy grass till we reached some very pretty grass houses, under the
                        shade of the most magnificent bread-fruit trees on Hawaii, loaded with
                        fruit. There were orange trees in blossom, and coffee trees with masses of
                        sweet white flowers lying among their flaky branches like snow, and the
                        unfailing cocoa-nut rising out of banana groves, and clusters of gardenia
                        smothering the red hibiscus. Here Hananui adopted a showman's air; he made
                        me feel as if I were one of Barnum's placarded monsters. I had nothing to do
                        but sit on my horse and be stared at. I felt that my bleached face was
                        unpleasing, that my eyes and hair were faded, and that I had a great deal to
                        answer for in the way of colour and attire. From the way in which he asked
                        me unintelligible questions, I gathered that the people were catechizing him
                        about me, and that he was romancing largely at my expense. They brought me
                        some bananas and cocoa-nut milk, which were most refreshing.
                    Beyond the houses the valley became a jungle of Indian shot (Canna indica), eight or nine feet high, guavas
                        and ohias, with an entangled undergrowth
                        of ferns rather difficult to penetrate, and soon Hananui, whose soul was
                        hankering after the delights of society, stopped, saying, “Lios (horses) no go.” “We'll try,” I replied,
                        and rode on first. He sat on his horse laughing immoderately, and then
                        followed me. I see that in travelling with natives it is essential to have a
                        definite plan of action in one's own mind, and to verge on self-assertion in
                        carrying it out. We fought out way a
                        little further, and then he went out of sight altogether in the jungle, his
                        horse having floundered up to his girth in soft ground, on which we
                        dismounted and tethered the horses. H. had never been any further, and as I
                        failed to make him understand that I desired to visit the home of the five
                        cascades, I had to reverse our positions and act as guide. We crept along
                        the side of a torrent among exquisite trees, moss, and ferns, till we came
                        to a place where it divided. There were three horses tethered there, some
                        wearing apparel lying on the rocks, and some human footprints along one of
                        the streams, which decided me in favour of the other. H. remonstrated by
                        signs, as doubtless he espied an opportunity for much gossip in the other
                        direction, but on my appearing persistent, he again laughed and followed
                        me.
                    From this point it was one perfect, rapturous, intoxicating, supreme vision
                        of beauty, and I felt, as I now believe, that at last I had reached a scene
                        on which foreign eves had never looked. The glories of the tropical forest
                        closed us in with their depth, colour, and redundancy. Here the operations
                        of nature are rapid and decisive. A rainfall of eleven feet in a year and a
                        hothouse temperature force every plant into ceaseless activity, and make
                        short work of decay. Leafage, blossom, fruitage, are simultaneous and
                        perennial. The river, about as broad as the Cam at Cambridge, leaped along,
                        clear like amber, pausing to rest awhile in deep bright pools, where fish
                        were sporting above the golden sand, a laughing, sparkling, rushing,
                        terrorless stream, “without mysteries or
                        agonies,” broken by rocks, green with mosses and fragile ferns, and in whose
                        unchilled waters, not more than three feet deep, wading was both safe and
                        pleasant. It was not possible to creep along its margin, the forest was so
                        dense and tangled, so we waded the whole way, and wherever the water ran
                        fiercely my unshod guide helped me. One varied, glorious maze of vegetation
                        came down to it, and every green thing leant lovingly towards it, or stooped
                        to touch it, and over its whole magic length was arched and interlaced the
                        magnificent large-leaved ohia, whose
                        millions of spikes of rose-crimson blossoms lit up the whole arcade, and the
                        light of the afternoon sun slanted and trickled through them, dancing in the
                        mirthful water, turning its far-down sands to gold, and brightening the
                        many-shaded greens of candlenut and breadfruit. It shone on majestic
                        fern-trees, on the fragile Polypodium
                            tamariscinum, which clung tremblingly to the branches of the
                            ohia, on the beautiful lygodium, which
                        adorned the uncouth trunk of the breadfruit; on shining banana leaves and
                        glossy trailing yams; on gigantic lianas, which, climbing to the tops of the
                        largest trees, descended in vast festoons, passing from tree to tree, and
                        interlacing the forest with a living network; and on lycopodiums of every
                        kind, from those which wrapped the rocks in feathery green to others hardly
                        distinguishable from ferns. But there were twilight depths too, where no
                        sunlight penetrated the leafy gloom, damp and cool: dreamy shades, in which
                        the music of the water was all too sweet, and the loveliness too entrancing,
                        creating that sadness, hardly “akin to pain,” which is latent in all intense enjoyment. Here and there a tree had
                        fallen across the river, from which grew upwards and trailed downwards,
                        fairy-like, semi-transparent mosses and ferns, all glittering with moisture
                        and sunshine, and now and then a scarlet tropic bird heightened the effect
                        by the flash of his plumage.
                    After an hour of wading we emerged into broad sunny daylight at the home of
                        the five cascades, which fall from a semicircular precipice into three
                        basins. It is not, however, possible to pass from one to the other. This
                        great gulf is a grand sight, with its dark deep basin from which it seemed
                        so far to look up to the heavenly blue, and the water falling calmly and
                        unhurriedly, amidst innumerable rainbows, from a height of 3000 feet. The
                        sides were draped with ferns flourishing under the spray, and at the base
                        the rock was very deeply caverned. I enjoyed a delicious bath, relying on
                        sun and wind to dry my clothes, and then reluctantly waded down the river.
                        At its confluence with another stream, still arched by ohias, a man and two women appeared rising out
                        of the water, like a vision of the elder world in the days of Fauns, and
                        Naiads, and Hamadryads. The water was up to their waists, and leis of ohia
                        blossoms and ferns, and masses of unbound hair fantastically wreathed with
                        moss, fell over their faultless forms, and their rich brown skin gleamed in
                        the slant sunshine. They were catching shrimps with trumpet-shaped baskets,
                        perhaps rather a prosaic occupation. They joined us, and we waded down
                        together to the place where they had left their horses. The women slipped
                        into their holukus, and the man insisted on my riding his barebacked horse to
                        the place where we had left our own, and then we all galloped over the soft
                        grass.
                    Waimanu had turned out to meet us about thirty people on horseback, all of
                        whom shook hands with me, and some of them threw over me garlands of
                            ohia, pandanus, and hibiscus. Where
                        our cavalcade entered the river, a number of children and dogs and three
                        canoes awaited us, and thus escorted I returned triumphantly to the house.
                        The procession on the river of paddling canoes, swimming children, and dogs,
                        and more than thirty riders, with their feet tucked up round their horses'
                        necks, all escorting a “pale face,” was grotesque and enchanting, and I
                        revelled in this lapse into savagery, and enjoyed heartily the kindliness
                        and goodwill of this unsophisticated people.
                    When darkness spread over the valley, clear voices ascended in a weird
                        recitative, the room filled up with people, pipes circulated freely,
                            poi was again produced, and calabashes
                        of cocoa-nut milk. The mêlés were long,
                        and I crept within my curtain and lay down, but the drowsiness which
                        legitimately came over me after riding thirty miles and wading two, was
                        broken in upon by two monstrous cockroaches really as large as mice, with
                        fierce-looking antennæ and prominent eyes, both of which mounted guard on my
                        pillow. On rising to drive them away, I found to my dismay that they were
                        but the leaders of a host, which only made a temporary retreat, rustling
                        over the mat and dried grass with the crisp tread of mice, and scaring away
                        sleep for some hours. Worse than these
                        were the mosquitoes, also an imported nuisance, which stabbed and stung
                        without any preliminary droning; and the heat was worse still, for thirteen
                        human beings were lying on the floor and the door was shut. Had I known that
                        two of these were lepers, I should have felt far from comfortable. As it
                        was, I got up soon after midnight, and cautiously stepping among the
                        sleeping forms, went out of doors. Everything favoured reflection, but I
                        think the topics to which my mind most frequently reverted were my own
                        absolute security—a lone white woman among “savages,” and the civilizing
                        influence which Christianity has exercised, so that even in this isolated
                        valley, gouged out of a mountainous coast, there was nothing disagreeable or
                        improper to be seen. The night was very still, but the sea was moaning; the
                        river rippled very gently as it brushed past the reeds; there was a hardly
                        perceptible vibration in the atmosphere, which suggested falling water and
                        quivering leaves; and the air was full of a heavy, drowsy fragrance, the
                        breath of orange flowers, perhaps, and of the night-blowing Cereus, which
                        had opened its ivory urn to the moon. I should have liked to stay out all
                        night in the vague, delicious moonlight, but the dew was heavy, and moreover
                        I had not any boots on, so I reluctantly returned to the grass house, which
                        was stifling with heat and smells of cocoa-nut oil, tobacco, and the rancid
                        smoke from beef fat.
                    Before sunrise this morning my horse was saddled, and a number of natives had
                        assembled. Hananui had disappeared, but the man who lent me his bare-backed
                            horse yesterday was ready to act as
                        guide. My boots could not then be found, so I adopted the native fashion of
                        riding with bare feet. We again rode up the river in that slow and solemn
                        fashion in which horses walk in water, galloped over a stretch of grass,
                        crossed a bright stream several times, and then entered a dense jungle of
                        Indian shot, plantains, and sadlerias, with breadfruit, kukui, and ohia rising out of it. There were thousands of plantains, a
                        fruit resembling the banana, but that it requires cooking. The Indian shot,
                        the yellow-blossomed variety, was of a gigantic size. Its hard, black seeds
                        put into a bladder furnish the chic-chac,
                        which in many places is used as an accompaniment to the utterly abominable
                        and heathenish tom-tom. Here guavas as large as oranges and as yellow as
                        lemons ripened and fell unheeded. Sometimes deep down we heard the rush of
                        water, and Paalau got down and groped for it on his hands and knees;
                        sometimes we heard a noise as of hippopotami, but nothing could be seen but
                        the tips of ears, as a herd of happy, unbroken horses, scared by our
                        approach, crashed away through the jungle. Clear rapid streams,
                        fern-fringed, sometimes offered us a few yards of highway, but the jungle
                        ever grew more dense, the forest trees larger, the lianas more tangled, the
                        streams more sunk and rocky, and though the horses shut their eyes and
                        boldly pushed through the tangle, we were fairly foiled when within half a
                        mile from the head of the valley. I thoroughly appreciated the unsightly
                        leather guards which are here used to cover the stirrups and feet, as
                        without them I could not have ridden ten yards. We were so hemmed in that it was difficult to dismount, but
                        I bound some wild kalo leaves round my
                        feet, and managed to get over some broken rock to a knoll, from which I
                        obtained a superb view of the wonderful cleft. Palis 3000 feet in height walled in its head with a complete
                        inaccessibility. It lay in cool dewy shadow till the sudden sun flushed its
                        precipices with pink, and a broad bar of light revealed the great chasm in
                        which it terminates, while far off its portals opened upon the red eastern
                        sky. This little lonely world had become so very dear to me, that I found it
                        hard to leave it.
                    There was some stir near the sea, for a man was about to build a grass house,
                        and they were preparing a stone pavement for it. Thirty people sat on the
                        ground in a line from the beach, and passed stones from hand to hand, as men
                        pass buckets at a fire. It seemed a very attractive occupation, and I could
                        hardly get Hananui to leave it. The natives are most gregarious and social
                        in their habits. They assemble together for everything that has to be made
                        or done, and their occupations and amusements are shared by both sexes. In
                        old days it is said that a king of Hawaii assembled most of the adults of
                        the then populous island, and formed a human chain three miles long to pass
                        up stones for the building of the great Heiau in Kona. It is said that this valley had 2000
                        inhabitants forty years ago, but they have dwindled to 117. The former
                        estimate is probably not an excessive one, for nearly the whole valley is
                        suitable for the culture of kalo, and a
                        square mile of kalo will feed 15,000
                        natives for a year.
                    
                    Two women were shrimping in the river, the children were swimming to school,
                        blue smoke curled up into the still air, kalo was baking among the stones, and a group of women sat
                        sewing and making leis on the ground. The
                        Waimanui day had begun; and it was odd to think that though the long summer
                        years days dawned like this, and that the people of the valley grew grey and
                        old in shrimping and sewing and kalo
                        baking. All Waimanu shook hands with me, the kindly “Aloha” filled the air, and the women threw garlands over us
                        both. I could hardly induce my host to accept a dollar and a half for my
                        entertainment. From the dizzy summit of the pali, where the sun was high and hot, I looked my last on the
                        dark, cool valley, slumbering in an endless calm, the deepest, greenest,
                        quaintest cleft on all the island.
                    The sun was fierce and bright, the ocean had a metallic glint, the hot breath
                        of the kona was scorching. My hands,
                        swollen from mosquito bites, could not be stuffed into my gloves, and
                        inflamed under the sun, and my wet boots baked and stiffened on my feet.
                        Hananui plaited a crown of leaves for my hot head, which I found a great
                        relief. I was still minded to linger, for one side of each glorious gulch
                        was cool with shadow and dripping with dew. The blue morning glories were
                        yet unwilted, rivulets dropped down into ferny grottoes and lingered there,
                        rose ohia blossoms lighted shady places,
                        orange flowers; gleamed like stars amidst the dense leafage, and the
                        crimped-leaved coffee shrubs were white with their mimic snow. It was my
                        last tropical dream, and I was rudely roused by finding myself on the
                        unsightly verge of the great bluff on the
                        north side of this valley, which plunges to the sea with an uncompromising
                        perpendicular dip of 2000 feet, and carries on its dizzy brow a shelving
                        trail not more than two feet wide!
                    I felt that I must go back and live and die in Waimanu rather than descend
                        that scathed steep, and being stupid with terror flung myself from my horse,
                        forgetting that it was much safer to trust to his four feet than to my two,
                        and to an animal without “nerves,” dizziness, or “the fore-knowledge of
                        death,” than to my palsied, cowardly self. I had intended to go into details
                        of the horrible descent, but the “pilikia”
                        is over now, and Halemanu claps me on the shoulder with an approving smile,
                        ejaculating, “Maikai, maikai” (good).
                        Besides, my returning senses inform me that I have not tasted food since
                        yesterday, and some delicious river fishes are smoking on the
                        table......
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XVII.
                
                    STR. KILAUEA.
                
                ...I HAVE been spending the day at Lahaina on Maui, on my way
                    from Kawaihae to Honolulu. Lahaina is thoroughly beautiful and tropical looking,
                    with its white latticed houses peeping out from under coco palms, breadfruit,
                    candlenut, tamarinds, mangoes, bananas, and oranges, with the brilliant green of
                    a narrow strip of sugar-cane for a background, and above, the flushed mountains
                    of Eeka, riven here and there by cool green chasms, rise to a height of 6000
                    feet. Beautiful Lahaina! It is an oasis in a dazzling desert, straggling for
                    nearly two miles along the shore, but compressed into a width of half a mile. It
                    was a great missionary centre, as well as a great whaling station, but the
                    whalers have deserted it, and missions are represented now only by the seminary
                    of Lahainaluna on the hillside. An old palace, the remains of a fort, a
                    custom-house, and a native church are the most conspicuous buildings. The stores
                    and dwellings of the foreign residents are scattered along the shore, and the
                    light frame house, with its green verandah, buried amid gorgeous exotics and
                    shaded by candlenut and breadfruit, looks as seemly and in keeping as in far-off
                    Massachusetts, under hickory and elm. The grass houses of the natives cluster along the waters' edge, or in
                    lanes dark with mangoes and bananas, and fragrant with gardenia fringing the
                    cane-fields. These, with adobe houses and walls, the flush of the soil, the
                    gaudy dresses of the natives, the masses of brilliant exotics, the intense blue
                    of the sea, and the dry blaze of the tropical heat, give a decided individuality
                    to the capital of Maui. The heat of Lahaina is a dry, robust, bracing, joyous
                    heat. The mercury stood at 80°, the usual temperature of the “flare” or sea
                    level on the leeward side of the islands; but I strolled through the cane-fields
                    and along the glaring beach without suffering the least inconvenience from the
                    sun, and found the unusual precaution of a white umbrella perfectly
                    needless.
                The beach is formed of pure white broken coral; the sea is blue with the calm,
                    pure blue of turquoise, but crystalline in its purity, and breaks for ever over
                    the environing coral reef with a low deep music. Blue water stretched to the far
                    horizon, the sky was blazing blue, the leafage was almost dazzling to the eye,
                    the mountainous island of Molokai floated like a great blue morning glory on the
                    yet bluer sea; a sweet, soft breeze rustled through the palms, lazy ripples
                    plashed lightly on the sand; humanity basked, flower-clad, in sunny indolence;
                    everything was redundant, fervid, beautiful. How can I make you realize the
                    glorious, bountiful, sun-steeped tropics under our cold grey skies, and amidst
                    our pale, monotonous, lustreless greens?
                Yet Molokai is only enchanting in the distance, for its blue petals enfold 400
                    lepers doomed to endless isolation, and 300
                    more are shortly to be weeded out and sent thither. In to-day's paper appeared
                    the painful notice, “All lepers are required to report themselves to the
                    Government health officer within fourteen days from this date for inspection,
                    and final banishment to Molokai.” It is hoped that leprosy may be “stamped out”
                    by these stringent measures, but the leprous taint must be strong in many
                    families, and the social, gregarious natives smoke each other's pipes and wear
                    each other's clothes, and either from fatalism or ignorance have disregarded all
                    precautions regarding this woful disease; and now that measures are being taken
                    for the isolation of lepers, they are concealing them under mats and in caves
                    and woods. This forlorn malady, called here Chinese leprosy, in the cases that I
                    have seen, confers nothing of the white, scaly look attributed to Syrian
                    leprosy; but the face is red, puffed, bloated, and shining, and the eyes glazed,
                    and I am told that in its advanced stage the swollen limbs decay and drop off.
                    It is a fresh item of the infinite curse which has come upon this race, and with
                    Molokai in sight the Hesperides vanished, and I ceased to believe that the
                    Fortunate Islands exist here or elsewhere on this weary earth.
                My destination was the industrial training and boarding school for girls, taught
                    and superintended by two English ladies of Miss Sellon's sisterhood, Sisters
                    Mary Clara and Phœbe; and I found it buried under the shade of the finest
                    candlenut trees I have yet seen. A rude wooden cross in front is a touching and
                    fitting emblem of the Saviour, for whom these pious women have sacrificed friends, sympathy, and the social intercourse
                    and amenities which are within daily reach of our workers at home. The large
                    house, which is either plastered stone or adobe, contains the dormitories,
                    visitors' room, and oratory, and three houses at the back, all densely shaded,
                    are used as schoolroom, cook-house, laundry, and refectory. There is a
                    playground under some fine tamarind trees, and an adobe wall encloses, without
                    secluding, the whole. The visitors' room is about twelve feet by eight feet,
                    very bare, with a deal table and three chairs in it, but it was vacant, and I
                    crossed to the large, shady, airy schoolroom, where I found the senior sister
                    engaged in teaching, while the junior was busy in the cook-house. These ladies
                    in eight years have never left Lahaina. Other people may think it necessary to
                    leave its broiling heat and seek health and recreation on the mountains, but
                    their work has left them no leisure, and their zeal no desire, for a holiday. A
                    very solid, careful English education is given here, as well as a thorough
                    training in all housewifely arts, and in the more important matters of modest
                    dress and deportment, and propriety in language. There are thirty-seven
                    boarders, native and half-native, and mixed native and Chinese, between the ages
                    of four and eighteen. They provide their own clothes, beds, and bedding, and I
                    think pay forty dollars a year. The capitation grant from Government for two
                    years was 2325 dollars. Sister Phœbe was my cicerone, and I owe her one of the
                    pleasantest days I have spent on the islands. The elder Sister is in middle
                    life, but though fragile-looking, has a pure complexion and a lovely countenance; the younger is scarcely
                    middle-aged, one of the brightest, bonniest, sweetest-looking women I ever saw,
                    with fun dancing in her eyes and round the corners of her mouth; yet the regnant
                    expression on both faces was serenity, as though they had attained to “the love
                    which looketh kindly, and the wisdom which looketh soberly on all things.”
                I never saw such a mirthful-looking set of girls. Some were cooking the dinner,
                    some ironing, others reading English aloud; but each occupation seemed a
                    pastime, and whenever they spoke to the Sisters they clung about them as if they
                    were their mothers. I heard them read the Bible and an historical lesson, as
                    well as play on a piano and sing, and they wrote some very difficult passages
                    from dictation without any errors, and in a flowing, legible handwriting that I
                    am disposed to envy. Their accent and intonation were pleasing, and there was a
                    briskness and emulation about their style of answering questions, rarely found
                    in country schools with us, significant of intelligence and good teaching. All
                    but the younger girls spoke English as fluently as Hawaiian. I cannot convey a
                    notion of the blitheness and independence of manner of these children. To say
                    that they were free and easy would be wrong; it was rather the manner of very
                    frolicsome daughters to very indulgent mothers or aunts. It was a family manner
                    rather than a school manner, and the rule is obviously one of love. The Sisters
                    are very wise in adapting their discipline to the native character and
                    circumstances. The rigidity which is customary in similar institutions at home would be out of place, as well as
                    fatal here, and would ultimately lead to a rebound of a most injurious
                    description. Strict obedience is of course required, but the rules are few and
                    lenient, and there is no more pressure of discipline than in a well-ordered
                    family. The native amusements generally are objectionable, but Hawaiians are a
                    dancing people, and will dance, or else indulge in less innocent pastimes; so
                    the Sisters have taught them various English dances, and I never saw anything
                    prettier or more graceful than their style of dancing. There is no uniform
                    dress. The girls wear pretty print frocks, made in the English style, and
                    several of then wore the hibiscus in their shining hair. Some of the older girls
                    were beautiful in face as well as graceful in figure, but there was a snaky
                    undulation about their movements which I never saw among Europeans. All looked
                    bubbling over with fun and frolic, and there was a refinement and intelligence
                    about their expression which contrasted favourably with that of the ordinary
                    female face on the islands.
                There are two dormitories, excellently ventilated, with a four-post bed, with
                    mosquito-bars, for each girl, and the beds were covered with those
                    brilliant-coloured quilts in which the natives delight, and in which they
                    exercise considerable ingenuity as well as individuality of taste. One Sister
                    sleeps in each dormitory, and these highly educated and refined women have no
                    place of retirement except a very plain oratory; and having taken the vow of
                    poverty, they have of course no possessions, none of the books, pictures, and
                    knick-knacks wherewith others adorn their
                    surroundings. Their whole lives, with the exception of the time passed in the
                    oratory, are spent with the girls, and in visiting the afflicted at their homes,
                    and this through eight blazing years, with the mercury always at 80°!
                The Hawaiian women have no notions of virtue as we understand it, and if there is
                    to be any future for this race it must come through a higher morality.
                    Consequently the removal of these girls from evil and impure surroundings, the
                    placing them under the happiest influences in favour of purity and goodness, the
                    forming and fostering of industrious and housewifely habits, and the raising
                    them in their occupations and amusements above those which are natural to their
                    race, are in themselves a noble, and in some degree, a hopeful work, but it
                    admits of neither pause nor relaxation. Those who carry it on are truly “the
                    lowest in the meanest task,” for they have undertaken not only the
                    superintendence of menial work (so called), but the work itself, in teaching by
                    example and instruction the womanly industries of home. They have no society,
                    until lately no regular Liturgical worship, and of necessity a very infrequent
                    celebration of the Holy Communion; and they have undergone the trial which arose
                    very naturally out of the ecclesiastical relations of the American missionaries,
                    of being regarded as enemies, or at least dangerous interlopers, by the
                    excellent men who had long resided on the islands as Christian teachers, and
                    with whose views on such matters as dress and recreation their own are somewhat
                    at variance. In the first instance, the habit
                    they wore, their designations, the presence of Miss Sellon, the fame of whose
                    Ritualistic tendencies had reached the islands, and their manifest connection
                    with a section of the English Church which is regarded here with peculiar
                    disfavour, roused a strongly antagonistic feeling regarding their work and the
                    drift of their religious teaching. They are not connected with what is known at
                    home as the “Honolulu Mission.”*
                
                    I.L.B.
                
                
                    
                        * It gives me
                            pleasure to add that the Sisters have lived down this very natural
                            distrust, and that in a subsequent residence of five months on the
                            islands, I never heard but one opinion, and that of the most favourable
                            kind, regarding the Lahaina School, and the excellence and wisdom of the
                            manner in which it is conducted. I have been told by many who on most
                            points are quite out of sympathy with the Sisters, not only that their
                            work is recognized as a most valuable agency, but that their influence
                            has come to be regarded as among the chiefest of the blessings of
                            Laliaina.
                    
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XVIII.
                
                    HAWAIIAN HOTEL, HONOLULU. March 20th.
                
                OAHU, with its grey pinnacles, its deep valleys, its cool
                    chasms, its ruddy headlands, and volcanic cones, all clothed in green by the
                    recent rains, looked unspeakably lovely as we landed by sunrise in a
                    rose-flushed atmosphere, and Honolulu, shady, dew-bathed, and brilliant with
                    flowers, deserved its name, “The Paradise of the Pacific.” The hotel is
                    pleasant, and Mrs. D.'s presence makes it sweet and homelike; but in a very few
                    days I have lost much of the health I gained on Hawaii, and the “Rolling Moses”
                    and the Rocky Mountains can hardly come too soon. For Honolulu is truly a
                    metropolis, gay, hospitable, and restless, and this hotel centralizes the
                    restlessness. Visiting begins at breakfast time, when it ends I know not, and
                    receiving and making visits, court festivities, entertainments given by the
                    commissioners of the great powers, riding parties, picnics, verandah parties,
                    “sociables,” and luncheon and evening parties on board the ships of war, succeed
                    each other with frightful rapidity. This is all on the surface, but beneath and
                    better than this is a kindness which leaves no stranger to a sense of
                    loneliness, no want uncared for, and no sorrow unalleviated. This, more than its beauty and its glorious climate,
                    makes Honolulu “Paradise” for the many who arrive here sick and friendless. I
                    notice that the people are very intimate with each other, and generally address
                    each other by their Christian names. Very many are the descendants of the
                    clerical and secular members of the mission, and these, besides being naturally
                    intimate, are further drawn and held together by a society called “The Cousins'
                    Society,” the objects of which are admirable. The people take an intense
                    interest in each other, and love each other unusually. Possibly they may hate
                    each other as cordially when occasion offers. It is a charming town, and the
                    society is delightful. I wish I were well enough to enjoy it.
                For people in the early stages of consumption this climate is perfect, owing to
                    its equability, as also for bronchial affections. Unlike the health resorts of
                    the Mediterranean, Algeria, Madeira, and Florida, where great summer heats or an
                    unhealthy season compel half-cured invalids to depart in the spring, to return
                    the next winter with fresh colds to begin the half-cure process again, people
                    can live here until they are completely cured, as the climate is never
                    unhealthy, and never too hot. Though the regular trades, which blow for nine
                    months of the year, have not yet set in, and the mercury stands at 80°, there is
                    no sultriness: a tremulous sea-breeze and a mountain breeze fan the town, and
                    the purple nights, when the stars hang out like lamps, and the moon gives a
                    light which is almost golden, are cool and delicious. Roughly computed, the
                    annual mean temperature is 75° 55', with a
                    divergence in either direction of only 7° 55'. As a general rule the temperature
                    is cooler by four degrees for every thousand feet of altitude, so that people
                    can choose their climate to suit themselves without leaving the islands.
                I am gradually learning a little of the topography of this island and of
                    Honolulu, but the last is very intricate. The appearance of Oahu from the sea is
                    deceptive. It looks hardly larger than Arran, but it is really forty-six miles
                    long by twenty-five broad, and is 530 square miles in extent. Diamond Hill, or
                    Leahi, is the most prominent object south of the town, beyond the palm groves of
                    Waikiki. It is red and arid, except when, as now, it is verdure-tinged by recent
                    rains. Its height is 760 feet, and its crater nearly as deep, but its cone is
                    rapidly diminishing. Some years ago, when the enormous quantity of thirty-six
                    inches of rain fell in one week, the degradation of both exterior and interior
                    was something incredible, and the same process is being carried on slowly or
                    rapidly at all times. The Punchbowl, immediately behind Honolulu, is a crater of
                    the same kind, but of yet more brilliant colouring: so red is it indeed, that
                    one might suppose that its fires had but just died out. In 1786 an observer
                    noted it as being composed of high peaks; but atmospheric influences have
                    reduced it to the appearance of a single wasting tufa cone, similar to those
                    which stud the northern slopes of Mauna Kea. There are a number of shore craters
                    on the island, and six groups of tufa cones, but from the disintegration of the
                    lava, and the great depth of the soil in many places, it is supposed that volcanic action ceased earlier
                    than on Maui or Hawaii. The shores are mostly fringed with coral reefs, often
                    half a mile in width, composed of cemented coral fragments, shells, sand, and a
                    growing species of zoophyte. The ancient reefs are elevated thirty, forty, and
                    even 100 feet in some places, forming barriers which have changed lagoons into
                    solid ground. Honolulu was a bay or lagoon, protected from the sea by a coral
                    reef a mile wide; but the elevation of this reef twenty-five feet has furnished
                    a site for the capital, by converting the bay into a low but beautifully
                    situated plain.
                The mountainous range behind is a rocky wall with outlying ridges, valleys of
                    great size cutting the mountain to its core on either side, until the
                    culminating peaks of Waiolani and Konahuanui, 4000 feet above the sea, seem as
                    if rent in twain to form the Nuuanu Valley. The windward side of this range is
                    fertile, and is dotted over with rice and sugar plantations, but the leeward
                    side has not a trace of the redundancy of the tropics, and this very barrenness
                    gives a unique charm to the exotic beauty of Honolulu.
                To me it is daily a fresh pleasure to stroll along the shady streets and revel
                    among palms and bananas, to see clusters of the granadilla and night-blowing
                    cereus mixed with the double blue pea, tumbling over walls and fences, while the
                    vermilion flowers of the Erythrina umbrosa,
                    like spikes of red coral, and the flaring magenta Bougainvillea (which is not a
                    flower at all, but all audacious freak of terminal leaves) light up the
                        shade, and the purple-leaved Dracæna which
                    we grow in pots for dinner-table ornament, is as common as a weed.
                Besides this hotel, and the handsome but exaggerated and inappropriate Government
                    buildings not yet finished, there are few “imposing edifices” here. The tasteful
                    but temporary English Cathedral, the Kaiwaiaho Church, diminished once to suit a
                    dwindled population, but already too large again; the prison, a clean, roomy
                    building, empty in the daytime, because the convicts are sent out to labour on
                    roads and public works; the Queen's Hospital for Curables, for which Queen Emma
                    and her husband became mendicants in Honolulu; the Court House, a staring,
                    unshaded building; and the Iolani Palace, almost exhaust the category. Of this
                    last, little can be said, except that it is appropriate and proportioned to a
                    kingdom of 56,000 souls, which is more than can be said of the income of the
                    king, the salaries of the ministers, and some other things. It stands in
                    pleasure grounds of about an acre in extent, with a fine avenue running through
                    them, and is approached by a flight of steps which leads to a tolerably spacious
                    hall, decorated in the European style. Portraits of Louis Philippe and his
                    queen, presented by themselves, and of the late Admiral Thomas, adorn the walls.
                    The Hawaiians have a profound respect for this officer's memory, as it was
                    through him that the sovereignty of the islands was promptly restored to the
                    native rulers, after the infamous affair of its cession to England, as
                    represented by Lord George Paulet. There are also some ornamental vases and
                    miniature copies of some of Thorwaldsen's works. The throne-room takes up the left wing of the palace. This unfortunately
                    resembles a rather dreary drawing-room in London or New York, and has no
                    distinctive features except a decorated chair, which is the Hawaiian throne.
                    There is an Hawaiian crown also, neither grand nor costly, but this I have not
                    seen. At present the palace is only used for state receptions and
                    entertainments, for the king is living at his private residence of Haemoeipio,
                    not far off.
                Miss W. kindly introduced me to Queen Emma, or Kaleleonalani, the widowed queen
                    of Kamehameha IV., whom you will remember as having visited England a few years
                    ago, when she received great attention. She has one-fourth of English blood in
                    her veins, but her complexion is fully as dark as if she were of unmixed
                    Hawaiian descent, and her features, though refined by education and
                    circumstances, are also Hawaiian; but she is a very pretty, as well as a very
                    graceful woman. She was brought up by Dr. Rooke, an English physician here, and
                    though educated at the American school for the children of chiefs, is very
                    English in her leanings and sympathies, an attached member of the English
                    Church, and an ardent supporter of the “Honolulu Mission.” Socially she is very
                    popular, and her exceeding kindness and benevolence, with her strongly national
                    feeling as an Hawaiian, make her much beloved by the natives.
                The winter palace, as her town house is called, is a large shady abode, like an
                    old-fashioned New England house externally, but with two deep verandahs, and
                        the entrance is on the upper one. The
                    lower floor seemed given up to attendants and offices, and a native woman was
                    ironing clothes under a tree. Upstairs, the house is like a tasteful English
                    country house, with a pleasant English look, as if its furniture and ornaments
                    had been gradually accumulating during a series of years, and possessed
                    individual histories and reminiscences, rather than as if they had been ordered
                    together as “plenishings” from stores. Indeed, it is the most English-looking
                    house I have seen since I left home, except Bishopscourt at Melbourne. If there
                    were a bell I did not see it and we did not ring, for the queen received us at
                    the door of the drawing-room, which was open. I had seen her before in European
                    dress, driving a pair of showy black horses in a stylish English phaeton; but on
                    this occasion she was not receiving visitors formally, and was indulging in
                    wearing the native holuku, and her black wavy
                    hair was left to its own devices. She is rather below the middle height, very
                    young-looking for her age, which is thirty-seven, and very graceful in her
                    movements. Her manner is indeed very fascinating from a combination of
                    unconscious dignity with ladylike simplicity. Her expression is sweet and
                    gentle, with the same look of sadness about her eyes that the king has, but she
                    has a brightness and archness of expression which give a great charm to her
                    appearance. She has sorrowed much: first, for the death, at the age of four, of
                    her only child, the Prince of Hawaii, who when dying was baptized into the
                    English Church by the name of Albert Edward, Queen Victoria and the Prince of
                    Wales being his sponsors; and secondly, for
                    the premature death of her husband, to whom she was much attached. She speaks
                    English beautifully, only hesitating now and then for the most correct form of
                    expression. She spoke a good deal and with great pleasure of England; and
                    described Venice and the emotions it excited in her so admirably, that I should
                    like to have heard her describe all Europe.
                A few days afterwards I went to a garden party at her house. It was a very pretty
                    sight, and the “everybody” of Honolulu was there to the number of 250. I must
                    describe it for the benefit of —, who persists in thinking that coloured royalty
                    must necessarily be grotesque. People arrived shortly before sunset, and were
                    received by Queen Emma, who sat on the lawn, with her attendants about her, very
                    simply dressed in black silk. The king, at whose entrance the band played the
                    national anthem, stood on another lawn, where presentations were made by the
                    chamberlain; and those who were already acquainted with him had an opportunity
                    for a few minutes' conversation. He was dressed in a very well-made black
                    morning suit, and wore the ribbon and star of the Austrian order of Francis
                    Joseph. His simplicity was atoned for by the superlative splendour of his suite;
                    the governor of Oahu, and the high chief Kalakaua, who was a rival candidate for
                    the throne, being conspicuously resplendent. The basis of the costume appeared
                    to be the Windsor uniform, but it was smothered with epaulettes, cordons, and
                    lace; and each dignitary has a uniform peculiar to his office, so that the
                    display of gold lace was prodigious. The chiefs
                     are so raised above the common people in
                    height, size, and general nobility of aspect, that many have supposed them to be
                    of a different race; and the alii who
                    represented the dwindled order that night were certainly superb enough in
                    appearance to justify the supposition. Beside their splendour and stateliness,
                    the forty officers of the English and American war-ships, though all in
                    full-dress uniform, looked decidedly insignificant; and I doubt not that the
                    natives who were assembled outside the garden railings in crowds were not behind
                    me in making invidious comparisons.
                Chairs and benches were placed under the beautiful trees, and people grouped
                    themselves on these, and promenaded, flirted, talked politics and gossip, or
                    listened to the royal band, which played at intervals, and played well. The
                    dress of the ladies, whether white or coloured, was both pretty and appropriate.
                    Most of the younger women were in white, and wore natural flowers in their hair;
                    and many of the elder ladies wore black or coloured silks, with lace and trains.
                    There were several beautiful leis of the
                    gardenia, which filled all the garden with their delicious odour. Tea and ices
                    were handed round on Sèvres china by footmen and pages in appropriate liveries.
                    What a wonderful leap from calabashes and poi,
                        malos and paus, to this correct
                    and tasteful civilization! As soon as the brief amber twilight of the tropics
                    was over, the garden was suddenly illuminated by myriads of Chinese lanterns,
                    and the effect was bewitching. The upper suite of rooms was thrown open for
                    those who preferred dancing under cover; but I think that the greater part of
                    the 
                        assem-
                        assemblage
                     blage chose the shady walks and
                    purple night. Supper was served at eleven, and the party broke up soon
                    afterwards; but I must confess that, charming as it was, I left before eight,
                    for society makes heavier demands on my strength than the rough open-air life of
                    Hawaii.
                The dwindling of the race is a most pathetic subject. Here is a sovereign chosen
                    amidst an outburst of popular enthusiasm, with a cabinet, a legislature, and a
                    costly and elaborate governing machinery, sufficient in Yankee phrase to “run”
                    an empire of several millions, and here are only 49,000 native Hawaiians; and if
                    the decrease be not arrested, in a quarter of a century there will not be an
                    Hawaiian to govern. The chiefs, or alii, are a
                    nearly extinct order; and, with a few exceptions, those who remain are
                    childless. In riding through Hawaii I came everywhere upon traces of a once
                    numerous population, where the hill slopes are now only a wilderness of guava
                    scrub, and upon churches and school-houses all too large, while in some hamlets
                    the voices of young children were altogether wanting. This nation, with its
                    elaborate governmental machinery, its churches and institutions, has to me the
                    mournful aspect of a shrivelled and wizened old man dressed in clothing much too
                    big, the garments of his once athletic and vigorous youth. Nor can I divest
                    myself of the idea that the laughing, flower-clad hordes of riders who make the
                    town gay with their presence, are but like butterflies fluttering out their
                    short lives in the sunshine, 
                        “... a wreck and residue,
                        Whose only business is to perish.”
                    
                
                The statistics on this subject are perfectly appalling. If we reduce Captain
                    Cook's estimate of the native population by one-fourth, it was 300,000 in 1779.
                    In 1872 it was only 49,000. The first official census was in 1832, when the
                    native population was 130,000. This makes the decrease 80,000 in forty years, or
                    at the rate of 2000 a year, and fixes the period for the final extinction of the
                    race in 1897, if that rate were to continue. It is a pity, for many reasons,
                    that it is dying out. It has shown a singular aptitude for politics and
                    civilization, and it would have been interesting to watch the development of a
                    strictly Polynesian monarchy starting under passably fair conditions. Whites
                    have conveyed to these shores slow but infallible destruction on the one hand,
                    and on the other the knowledge of the life that is to come; and the rival
                    influences of blessing and cursing have now been fifty years at work, producing
                    results with which most reading people are familiar.
                I have not heard the subject spoken of, but I should think that the decrease in
                    the population must cause the burden of taxation to press heavily on that which
                    remains. Kings, cabinet ministers, an army, a police, a national debt, a supreme
                    court, and common schools, are costly luxuries or necessaries. The civil list is
                    ludicrously out of proportion to the resources of the islands, and the heads of
                    the four departments—Foreign Relations, Interior, Finance, and Law
                    (Attorney-General)—receive $5,000 a year each! Expenses and salaries have been
                    increasing for the last thirty years. For schools alone every man between
                    twenty-one and sixty pays a tax of two dollars
                    annually, and there is an additional general tax for the same purpose. I suppose
                    that there is not a better educated country in the world. Education is
                    compulsory; and besides the primary schools, there are a number of academies,
                    all under Government supervision, and there are 324 teachers, or one for every
                    twenty-seven children. There is a Board of Education, and Kamakau, its
                    president, reported to the last biennial session of the legislature that out of
                    8931 children between the ages of six and fifteen, 8287 were actually attending
                    school! Among other direct taxes, every quadruped that can be called a horse,
                    above two years old, pays a dollar a year, and every dog a dollar and a half.
                    Does not all this sound painfully civilized? If the influence of the tropics has
                    betrayed me into rhapsody and ecstacy in earlier letters, these dry details will
                    turn the scale in favour of prosaic sobriety!
                I have said little about Honolulu, except of its tropical beauty. It does not
                    look as if it had “seen better days.” Its wharves are well cared for, and its
                    streets and roads are very clean. The retail stores are generally to be found in
                    two long streets which run inland, and in a splay street which crosses both. The
                    upper storekeepers, with a few exceptions, are Americans, but one street is
                    nearly given up to Chinamen's stores, and one of the wealthiest and most
                    honourable merchants in the town is a Chinaman. There is an ice factory, and
                    icecream is included in the daily bill of fare here, and iced water is supplied
                    without limit, but lately the machinery has only worked in spasms, and the absence of ice is regarded as a local calamity,
                    though the water supplied from the waterworks is both cool and pure. There are
                    two good photographers and two booksellers. I don't think that plateglass fronts
                    are yet to be seen. Many of the storekeepers employ native “assistants;” but the
                    natives show little aptitude for mercantile affairs, or indeed for the “splendid
                    science” of money-making generally, and in this respect contrast with the
                    Chinamen, who, having come here as Coolies, have contrived to secure a large
                    share of the small traffic of the islands. Most things are expensive, but they
                    are good. I have seen little of such decided rubbish as is h be found in the
                    cheap stores of London and Edinburgh, except in tawdry artificial flowers. Good
                    black silks are to be bought, and are as essential to the equipment of a lady as
                    at home. Saddles are to be had at most of the stores, from the elaborate Mexican
                    and Californian saddle, worth from 30 to 50 dollars, to a worthless imitation of
                    he English saddle, dear at five. Boots and shoes, perhaps because in this
                    climate they are a mere luxury, are frightfully dear, and so are books, writing
                    paper, and stationery generally; a sheet of Bristol board, which we buy at home
                    for 6
                        d.
                        pence
                    , being half a dollar here. But it is quite a pleasure to make
                    purchases in the stores. There so much cordiality and courtesy that, as at this
                    hotel, the bill recedes into the background, and the purchaser feels the
                    indebted party.
                The money is extremely puzzling. These islands, like California, have repudiated
                    greenbacks, and the only paper currency is a small number of treasury notes
                        for large amounts. The coin in circulation
                    is gold and silver, but gold is scarce, which is an inconvenience to people who
                    have to carry a large amount of money about with them. The coinage is nominally
                    that of the United States, but the dollars are Mexican, or French 5 franc
                    pieces, and people speak of “rials,” which
                    have no existence here, and of “bits,” a Californian slang term for 12½ cents, a
                    coin which to my knowledge does not exist anywhere. A dime, or 10 cents, is the
                    lowest coin I have seen, and copper is not in circulation. An envelope, a penny
                    bottle of ink, a pencil, a spool of thread, cost 10 cents each; postage-stamps
                    cost 2 cents each for inter-island postage, but one must buy five of them, and
                    dimes slip away quickly and imperceptibly. There is a loss on English money, as
                    half-a-crown only passes for a half-dollar, sixpence for a dime, and so forth;
                    indeed, the average loss seems to be about twopence in the shilling.
                There are four newspapers: the Honolulu Gazette, the
                        Pacific Commercial Advertiser, Ka
                        Nupepa Kuokoa (the “Independent Press”), and a lately started
                    spasmodic sheet, partly in English and partly in Hawaiian, the Nuhou (News).*
                    The two first are moral and respectable, but indulge in the American sins of
                    personalities and mutual vituperation. The Nuhou
                    is scurrilous and diverting, and appears “run” with a special object, which I
                    have not as yet succeeded in unravelling from its pungent but not always
                    intelligible pages. I think perhaps the writing in each paper has something of
                    the American The
                            Nuhou has since expired. tendency to hysteria and convulsions, though these
                    maladies are mild as compared with the “real thing” in the Alta
                        California, which is largely taken here. Besides these there are
                    monthly sheets called The Friend, the oldest paper in the
                    Pacific, edited by good “Father Damon,” and the Church Messenger,
                    edited by Bishop Willis, partly devotional and partly devoted to the Honolulu
                    Mission. All our popular American and English literature is read here, and I
                    have hardly seen a table without “Scribner's” or “Harper's Monthly,” or “Good
                    Words.”
                I have lived far too much in America to feel myself a stranger where, as here,
                    American influence and customs are dominant; but the English who are in Honolulu
                    just now, in transitu from New Zealand,
                    complain bitterly of its “Yankeeism,” and are very far from being at home, and I
                    doubt not that Mr. M—, whom you will see, will not confirm my favourable
                    description. It is quite true that the islands are Americanized, and with the
                    exception of the Finance Minister, who is a Scotchman, Americans “run” the
                    Government and fill the Chief Justiceship and other high offices of State. It
                    is, however, perfectly fair, for Americans have civilized and Christianized
                    Hawaii-nei, and we have done little except make an unjust and afterwards
                    disavowed seizure of the islands.
                On looking over this letter I find it an olla
                        podrida of tropical glories, royal festivities, finance matters,
                    and odds and ends in general. I dare say you will find it dull after my letters
                    from Hawaii, but there are others who will
                    prefer its prosaic details to Kilauea and Waimanu; and I confess that, amidst
                    the general lusciousness of tropical life, I myself enjoy the dryness and
                    tartness of statistics, and hard uncoloured facts.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XIX.
                
                    HAWAIIAN HOTEL, HONOLULU.
                
                MY latest news of you is five months old, and though I have not
                    the slightest expectation that I shall hear from you, I go up to the roof to
                    look out for the “Rolling Moses” with more impatience and anxiety than those
                    whose business journeys are being delayed by her non-arrival. If such an
                    unlikely thing were to happen as that she were to bring a letter, I should be
                    much tempted to stay five months longer on the islands rather than try the
                    climate of Colorado, for I have come to feel at home, people are so very genial,
                    and suggest so many plans for my future enjoyment, the islands in their physical
                    and social aspects are so novel and interesting, and the climate is unrivalled
                    and restorative.
                Honolulu has not yet lost the charm of novelty for me. I am never satiated with
                    its exotic beauties, and the sight of a kaleidoscopic whirl of native riders is
                    always fascinating. The passion for riding, in a people who only learned
                    equitation in the last generation, is most curious. It is very curious, too, to
                    see women incessantly enjoying and amusing themselves in riding, swimming, and
                    making leis. They have few home ties in the
                    shape of children, and I fear make them fewer still by neglecting them for
                        the sake of riding and frolic, and man
                    seems rather the helpmeet than the “oppressor” of woman; though I believe that
                    the women have abandoned that right of choosing their husbands, which, it is
                    said, that they exercised in the old days. Used to the down-trodden look and
                    harrassed care-worn faces of the over-worked women of the same class at home and
                    in the colonies, the laughing, careless faces of the Hawaiian women have the
                    effect upon me of a perpetual marvel. But the expression generally has little of
                    the courteousness, innocence, and childishness of the negro physiognomy. The
                    Hawaiians are a handsome people, scornful and sarcastic-looking even with their
                    mirthfulness; and those who know them say that they are always quizzing and
                    mimicking the haoles, and that they give
                    everyone a nickname, founded on some personal peculiarity.
                The women are free from our tasteless perversity as to colour and ornament, and
                    have an instinct of the becoming. At first the holuku, which is only a full, yoke nightgown, is not attractive,
                    but I admire it heartily now, and the sagacity of those who devised it. It
                    conceals awkwardness, and befits grace of movement; it is fit for the climate,
                    is equally adapted for walking and riding, and has that general appropriateness
                    which is desirable in costume. The women have a most peculiar walk, with a
                    swinging motion from the hip at each step, in which the shoulder sympathises. I
                    never saw anything at all like it. It has neither the delicate shuffle of the
                    Frenchwoman, the robust, decided jerk of the Englishwoman, the stately glide of
                    the Spaniard, or the stealthiness of
                     the squaw; and I should know a Hawaiian woman
                    by it in any part of the world. A majestic wahine with small, bare feet, a grand, swinging, deliberate gait,
                    hibiscus blossoms in her flowing hair, and a lé of yellow flowers falling over her holuku, marching through these streets, has a tragic grandeur of
                    appearance, which makes the diminutive, fair-skinned haole, tottering along hesitatingly in high-heeled shoes, look
                    grotesque by comparison.
                On Saturday, our kind host took Mrs. D. and myself to the market, where we saw
                    the natives in all their glory. The women, in squads of a dozen at a time, their
                    Pa-ús streaming behind them, were cantering up and down the streets, and men and
                    women were thronging into the market-place; a brilliant, laughing, joking crowd,
                    their jaunty hats trimmed with fresh flowers, and leis of the crimson ohia and
                    orange lauhala falling over their costumes,
                    which were white, green, black, scarlet, blue, and every other colour that can
                    be dyed or imagined. The market is a straggling, open space, with a number of
                    shabby stalls partially surrounding it, but really we could not see the place
                    for the people. There must have been 2000 there.
                Some of the stalls were piled up with wonderful fish, crimson, green, rose, blue,
                    opaline—fish that have spent their lives in coral groves under the warm, bright
                    water. Some of them had wonderful shapes too, and there was one that riveted my
                    attention and fascinated me. It was, I thought at first, a heap, composed of a
                    dog fish, some limpets, and a multitude of water snakes, and other abominable
                    forms; but my eyes slowly informed me of the
                    fact, which I took in reluctantly and with extreme disgust, that the whole
                    formed one living monster, a revolting compound of a large paunch with eyes, and
                    a multitude of nervy, snaky, out-reaching, twining, grasping, tentacular arms,
                    several feet in length, I should think, if extended, but then lying in a crowded
                    undulating heap; the creature was dying, and the iridescence was passing over
                    what seemed to be its body in waves of colour, such as glorify the last hour of
                    the dolphin. But not the colours of the rainbow could glorify this hideous,
                    abominable form, which ought to be left to riot in ocean depths, with its
                    loathsome kindred. You have read “Les Travailleurs du
                        Mer,” and can imagine with what feelings I looked upon a living
                    Devil-fish! The monster is much esteemed by the natives as an article on food,
                    and indeed is generally relished. I have seen it oil foreign tables, salted,
                    under the name of squid.*
                We passed on to beautiful creatures, the kihi-kihi, or sea-cock, with alternate black and yellow
                    transverse bands on his body; the hinalea,
                    like a glorified mullet, with bright green, longitudinal bands on a dark shining
                    head, a purple body of different shades, and a blue spotted tail with a yellow
                    tip. The Ohua too, a pink scaled fish, shaped
                    like a trout; the opukai, beautifully striped
                    and mottled; the mullet and flying fish as common here as mackerel at home; the
                        hala, a fine pink-fleshed fish, the * This monster is a
                        cephalopod of the order Dibranchiata, and
                        has eight flexible arms, each crowded with 120 pair of suckers, and two
                        longer feelers about six feet in length, differing considerably from the
                        others in form. albicore, the
                    bonita, the manini striped black and white,
                    and many others. There was an abundance of opilu or limpets, also the pipi, a small oyster found among the coral; the ula, as large as a clawless lobster, but more
                    beautiful and variegated; and turtles which were cheap and plentiful. Then there
                    were purple-spiked sea urchins, black-spiked sea eggs or wana, and ina or eggs without
                    spikes, and many other curiosities of the bright Pacific. It was odd to see the
                    pearly teeth of a native meeting in some bright-coloured fish, while the tail
                    hung out of his mouth, for they eat fish raw, and some of them were obviously at
                    the height of epicurean enjoyment. Seaweed and fresh-water weed are much
                    relished by Hawaiians, and there were four or five kinds for sale, all included
                    in the term limu. Some of this was baked, and
                    put up in balls weighing one pound each. There were packages of baked fish, and
                    dried fish, and of many other things which looked uncleanly and disgusting; but
                    no matter what the package was, the leaf of the Ti tree was invariably the wrapping, tied round with sennet, the
                    coarse fibre obtained from the husk of the cocoa-nut. Fish, here, averages about
                    ten cents per pound, and is dearer than meat; but in many parts of the islands
                    it is cheap and abundant.
                There is a ferment going on in this kingdom, mainly got up by the sugar planters
                    and the interests dependent on them, and two political lectures have lately been
                    given in the large hall of the hotel in advocacy of their views; one, on
                    annexation, by Mr. Phillips, who has something of the oratorical gift of his
                    cousin, Wendell Phillips; and the other, on a
                    reciprocity treaty, by Mr. Carter. Both were crowded by ladies and gentlemen,
                    and the first was most enthusiastically received. Mrs. D. and I usually spend
                    our evenings in writing and working in the verandah, or in each other's rooms;
                    but I have become so interested in the affairs of this little state, that in
                    spite of the mosquitos, I attended both lectures, but was not warmed into
                    sympathy with the views of either speaker.
                I daresay that some of my friends here would quarrel with my conclusions, but I
                    will briefly give the data on which they are
                    based. The census of 1872 gives the native population at 49,044 souls; of whom,
                    700 are lepers; and it is decreasing at the rate of from 1,200 to
                    2,000 a year, while the excess of native males over females on the islands is
                    3,216. The foreign population is 5,366, and it is increasing at the
                    rate of 200 a year; and the number of half-castes of all nations has
                        increased at the rate of 140 a year. The Chinese, who came here
                    originally as plantation coolies, outnumber all the other nationalities
                    together, excluding the Americans; but the Americans constitute the ruling and
                    the monied class. Sugar is the reigning interest on the islands, and it is
                    almost entirely in American hands. It is burdened here by the difficulty of
                    procuring labour, and at San Francisco by a heavy import duty. There are
                    thirty-five plantations on the islands, and there is room for fifty more. The
                    profit, as it is, is hardly worth mentioning, and few of the planters do more
                    than keep their heads above water. Plantations which cost $50,000 have been sold
                    for $15,000; and others, which cost $150,000 have been sold for $40,000. If the islands were annexed, and
                    the duty taken off, many of these struggling planters would clear $50,000 a year
                    and upwards. So, no wonder that Mr. Phillips's lecture was received with
                    enthusiastic plaudits. It focussed all the clamour I have heard on Hawaii and
                    elsewhere, exalted the “almighty dollar,” and was savoury with the odour of
                    coming prosperity. But he went far, very far; he has aroused a cry among the
                    natives “Hawaii for the Hawaiians,” which, very likely, may breed
                    mischief; for I am very sure that this brief civilization has not quenched the
                    “red fire” of race; and his hint regarding the judicious disposal of the king in
                    the event of annexation, was felt by many of the more sober whites to be highly
                    impolitic.
                The reciprocity treaty, very lucidly advocated by Mr. Carter, and which means the
                    cession of a lagoon with a portion of circumjacent territory on this island, to
                    the United States, for a Pacific naval station, meets with more general favour
                    as a safer measure; but the natives are indisposed to bribe the great Republic
                    to remit the sugar duties by the surrender of a square inch of Hawaiian soil;
                    and, from a British point of view, I heartily sympathise with them. Foreign,
                        i.e. American, feeling is running high upon the subject. People
                    say that things are so bad that something must be done, and it remains to be
                    seen whether natives or foreigners can exercise the strongest pressure on the
                    king. I was unfavourably impressed in both lectures by the way in which the
                    natives and their interests were quietly ignored, or as quietly subordinated to
                    the sugar interest.
                
                It is never safe to forecast destiny; yet it seems most probable that sooner or
                    later in this century, the closing catastrophe must come. The more thoughtful
                    among the natives acquiesce helplessly and patiently in their advancing fate;
                    but the less intelligent, as I had some opportunity of hearing at Hilo, are
                    becoming restive and irritable, and may drift into something worse if the
                    knowledge of the annexationist views of the foreigners is diffused among them.
                    Things are preparing for change, and I think that the Americans will be wise in
                    their generation if they let them ripen for many years to come. Lunalilo has a
                    broken constitution, and probably will not live long. Kalakaua will probably
                    succeed him, and “after him the deluge,” unless he leaves a suitable successor,
                    for there are no more chiefs with pre-eminent claims to the throne. The feeling
                    among the people is changing, the feudal instinct is disappearing, the old
                    despotic line of the Kamehamehas is extinct; and kingmaking by paper ballots,
                    introduced a few months ago, is an approximation to president-making, with the
                    canvassing, stumping, and wrangling, incidental to such a contested election.
                    Annexation, or peaceful absorption, is the “manifest destiny” of the islands,
                    with the probable result lately most wittily prophesied by Mark Twain in the
                        New York Tribune, but it is impious and impolitic to hasten
                    it. Much as I like America, I shrink from the day when her universal political
                    corruption and her unrivalled political immorality shall be naturalised on
                    Hawaii nei.... Sunday evening. The “Rolling Moses” is in, and Sabbatic quiet has
                    given place to general excitement. People
                    thought they heard her steaming in at 4 a.m., and got up in great agitation. Her
                    guns fired during morning service, and I doubt whether I or any other person
                    heard another word of the sermon. The first batch of letters for the hotel came,
                    but none for me; the second, none for me; and I had gone to my room in cold
                    despair, when some one tossed a large package in at my verandah door, and to my
                    infinite joy I found that one of my benign fellow-passengers in the
                        Nevada, had taken the responsibility of getting my letters at
                    San Francisco and forwarding them here. I don't know how to be grateful enough
                    to the good man. With such late and good news, everything seems bright; and I
                    have at once decided to take the first schooner for the leeward group, and
                    remain four months longer on the islands.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XX.
                
                    KOLOA, KAUAI, March 23rd.
                
                I AM spending a few days on some quaint old mission premises,
                    and the “guest house,” where I am lodged, is a dobe house, with walls two feet
                    thick, and a very thick grass roof comes down six feet all round to shade the
                    windows. It is itself shaded by date palms and algarobas, and is surrounded by
                    hibiscus, oleanders, and the datura arborea
                    (?), which at night fill the air with sweetness. I am the only guest, and the
                    solitude of the guest house in which I am writing is most refreshing to tired
                    nerves. There is not a sound but the rustling of trees.
                The first event to record is that the trade winds have set in, and though they
                    may yet yield once or twice to the kona, they
                    will soon be firmly established for nine months. They are not soft airs as I
                    supposed, but riotous, rollicking breezes, which keep up a constant clamour,
                    blowing the trees about, slamming doors, taking liberties with papers, making
                    themselves heard and felt everywhere, flecking the blue Pacific with foam,
                    lowering the mercury three degrees, bringing new health and vigour with
                    them,—wholesome, cheery, frolicsome north-easters. They brought me here from
                    Oahu in eighteen hours, for which I thank them heartily.
                
                You will think me a Sybarite for howling about those eighteen hours of running to
                    leeward, when the residents of Kauai, if they have to go to Honolulu in the
                    intervals between the quarterly trips of the Kilauea, have to spend
                    from three to nine days in beating to windward. These inter-island voyages of
                    extreme detention, rolling on a lazy swell in tropical heat, or beating for days
                    against the strong trades without shelter from the sun, and without anything
                    that could be called accommodation, were among the inevitable hardships to which
                    the missionaries' wives and children were exposed in every migration for nearly
                    forty years.
                When I reached the wharf at Honolulu the sight of the Jenny, the
                    small sixty-ton schooner by which I was to travel, nearly made me give up this
                    pleasant plan, so small she looked, and so cumbered with natives and their
                    accompaniments of mats, dogs, and calabashes of poi. But she is clean, and as sweet as a boat can be which
                    carries through the tropics cattle, hides, sugar, and molasses. She is very low
                    in the water, her deck is the real “fisherman's walk, two steps and overboard;”
                    and on this occasion was occupied solely by natives. The Attorney General and
                    Mrs. Judd were to have been my fellow voyagers, but my disappointment at their
                    non-appearance was considerably mitigated by the fact that there was not stowage
                    room for more than one white passenger! Mrs. Dexter pitied me heartily, for it
                    made her quite ill to look down the cabin hatch; but I convinced her that no
                    inconveniences are legitimate subjects for sympathy which are endured in the
                    pursuit of pleasure. There was just room on
                    deck for me to sit on a box, and the obliging, gentlemanly master, who, with his
                    son and myself, were the only whites on board, sat on the taffrail.
                The Jenny spread her white duck sails, glided gracefully away from
                    the wharf, and bounded through the coral reef; the red sunlight faded, the stars
                    came out, the Honolulu light went down in the distance, and in two hours the
                    little craft was out of sight of land on the broad, crisp Pacific. It was so
                    chilly, that after admiring as long as I could, I dived into the cabin, a mere
                    den, with a table, and a berth on each side, in one of which I lay down, and the
                    other was alternately occupied by the captain and his son. But limited as I
                    thought it, boards have been placed across on some occasions, and eleven whites
                    have been packed into a space six feet by eight! The heat and suffocation were
                    nearly intolerable, the black flies swarming, the mosquitos countless and
                    vicious, the fleas agile beyond anything, and the cockroaches gigantic. Some of
                    the finer cargo was in the cabin, and large rats, only too visible by the light
                    of a swinging lamp, were assailing it, and one with a portentous tail ran over
                    my berth more than once, producing a stampede among the cockroaches
                    each time. I have seldom spent a more miserable night, though there was the
                    extreme satisfaction of knowing that every inch of canvas was drawing.
                Towards morning the short jerking motion of a ship close hauled, made me know
                    that we were standing in for the land, and at daylight we anchored in Koloa
                    Roads. The view is a pleasant one. The rains have been abundant, and the land,
                    which here rises rather gradually from the
                    sea, is dotted with houses, abounds in signs of cultivation, and then spreads up
                    into a rolling country between precipitous ranges of mountains. The hills look
                    something like those of Oahu, but their wonderful greenness denotes a cooler
                    climate and more copious rains, also their slopes and valleys are densely
                    wooded, and Kauai obviously has its characteristic features, one of which must
                    certainly be a superabundance of that most unsightly cactus, the prickly pear,
                    to which the motto nemo me impune lacessit
                    most literally applies.
                I had not time to tell you before that this trip to Kauai was hastily arranged
                    for me by several of my Honolulu friends, some of whom gave me letters of
                    introduction, while others wrote forewarning their friends of my arrival. I am
                    often reminded of Hazael's question, “Is thy servant a dog that he should do
                    this thing?” There is no inn or boarding house on the island, and I had hitherto
                    believed that I could not be concussed into following the usual custom whereby a
                    traveller throws himself on the hospitality of the residents. Yet, under the
                    influence of Honolulu persuasions, I am doing this very thing, but with an
                    amount of mauvaise honte and trepidation,
                    which I will not voluntarily undergo again.
                My first introduction was to Mrs. Smith, wife of a secular member of the Mission,
                    and it requested her to find means of forwarding me a distance of twenty-three
                    miles. Her son was at the landing with a buggy, a most unpleasant index of the
                    existence of carriage roads, and brought me here; and Mrs. Smith most
                    courteously met me at the door. When I presented my letter I felt like a thief detected in a first
                    offence, but I was at once made welcome, and my kind hosts insist on my
                    remaining with them for some days. Their house is a pretty old-fashioned looking
                    tropical dwelling, much shaded by exotics, and the parlour is homelike with new
                    books. There are two sons and two daughters at home, all, as well as their
                    parents, interesting themselves assiduously in the welfare of the natives. Six
                    bright-looking native girls are receiving an industrial training in the house.
                    Yesterday being Sunday, the young people taught a Sunday school twice, besides
                    attending the native church, an act of respect to Divine service in Hawaiian
                    which always has an influence on the native attendance.
                We have had some beautiful rides in the neighbourhood. It is a wild, lonely,
                    picturesque coast, and the Pacific moans along it, casting itself on it in heavy
                    surges, with a singularly dreary sound. There are some very fine specimens of
                    the phenomena called “blow-holes” on the shore, not like the “spouting cave” at
                    Iona, however. We spent a long time in watching the action of one, though not
                    the finest. At half tide this “spouting horn” throws up a column of water over
                    sixty feet in height from a very small orifice, and the effect of the compressed
                    air rushing through a crevice near it, sometimes with groans and shrieks, and at
                    others with a hollow roar like the warning fog-horn on a coast, is magnificent,
                    when, as to-day, there is a heavy swell on the coast.
                Kauai is much out of the island world, owing to the in frequent visits of the
                        Kilauea, but really it is only twelve hours by steam from the capital. Strangers visit it
                    seldom, as it has no active volcano like Hawaii, or colossal crater like Maui,
                    or anything sensational of any kind. It is called the “Garden Island,” and has
                    no great wastes of black lava and red ash like its neighbours. It is queerly
                    shaped, almost circular, with a diameter of from twenty-eight to thirty miles,
                    and its area is about 500 square miles. Waialeale, its highest mountain, is
                    4,800 feet high, but little is known of it, for it is swampy and dangerous, and
                    a part of it is a forest-covered and little explored tableland, terminating on
                    the sea in a range of perpendicular precipices 2,000 feet in depth, so steep it
                    is said, that a wild cat could not get round them. Owing to these, and the
                    virtual inaccessibility of a large region behind them, no one can travel round
                    the island by land, and small as it is, very little seems to be known of
                    portions of its area.
                Kauai has apparently two centres of formation, and its mountains are thickly
                    dotted with craters. The age and density of the vegetation within and without
                    those in this Koloa district, indicate a very long cessation from volcanic
                    action. It, is truly an oddly contrived island. An elevated rolling region,
                    park-like, liberally ornamented with clumps of ohia,
                        lauhala, hau, (hibiscus) and koa, and intersected with gullies full of large eugenias, lies
                    outside the mountain spurs behind Koloa. It is only the tropical trees,
                    specially the lauhala or “screw pine,” the
                    whimsical shapes of outlying ridges, which now and then he like the leaves in a
                    book, and the strange forms of extinct craters, which distinguish it from some
                    of our most 
                        beauti-
                        beautiful
                     ful park scenery, such as Windsor
                    Great Park or Belvoir. It is a soft tranquil beauty, and a tolerable road which
                    owes little enough to art, increases the likeness to the sweet home scenery of
                    England. In this part of the island the ground seems devoid of stones, and the
                    grass is as fine and smooth as a race course.
                The latest traces of volcanic action are found here. From the Koloa Ridge to, and
                    into the sea, a barren uneven surface of pahoehoe extends, often bulged up in immense bubbles, some of
                    which have partially burst, leaving caverns, one of which, near the shore, is
                    paved with the ancient coral reef!
                The valleys of Kauai are long, and widen to the sea, and their dark rich soil is
                    often ten feet deep. On the windward side the rivers are very numerous and
                    picturesque. Between the strong winds and the lightness of the soil, I should
                    think that like some parts of the Highlands, “it would take a shower every day.”
                    The leeward side, quite close to the sea, is flushed and nearly barren, but
                    there is very little of this desert region. Kauai is less legible in its
                    formation than the other islands. Its mountains, from their impenetrable
                    forests, dangerous breaks, and swampiness, are difficult of access, and its
                    ridges are said to be more utterly irregular, its lavas more decomposed, and its
                    natural sections more completely smothered under a profuse vegetation than those
                    of any other island in the tropical Pacific. Geologists suppose, from the
                    degradation of its ridges, and the absence of any recent volcanic products, that
                    it is the oldest of the group, but so far as I
                    have read, none of them venture to conjecture how many ages it has taken to
                    convert its hard basalt into the rich soil which now sustains trees of enormous
                    size. If this theory be correct, the volcanoes must have gone on dying out from
                    west to east, from north to south, till only Kilauea remains, and
                    its energies appear to be declining. The central mountain of this island is
                    built of a heavy ferruginous basalt, but the shore ridges contain less iron, are
                    more porous, and vary in their structure from a compact phonolite, to a
                    ponderous basalt.
                The population of Kauai is a widely scattered one of 4,900, and as it is an out
                    of the world region the people are probably better, and less sophisticated. They
                    are accounted rustics, or “pagans,” in the classical sense, elsewhere. Horses
                    are good and very cheap, and the natives of both sexes are most expert riders.
                    Among their feats, are picking up small coins from the ground while going at
                    full gallop, or while riding at the same speed wringing off the heads of
                    unfortunate fowls, whose bodies are buried in the earth.
                There are very few foreigners, and they appear on the whole a good set, and very
                    friendly among each other. Many of them are actively interested in promoting the
                    improvement of the natives, but it is uphill work, and ill-rewarded, at least on
                    earth. The four sugar plantations employ a good deal of Chinese labour, and I
                    fear that the Chinamen are stealthily tempting the Hawaiians to smoke opium.
                All the world over, however far behind aborigines are in the useful arts, they
                    exercise a singular ingenuity in devising
                    means for intoxicating and stupifying themselves. On these islands distillation
                    is illegal, and a foreigner is liable to conviction and punishment for giving
                    spirits to a native Hawaiian, yet the natives contrive to distil very
                    intoxicating drinks, specially from the root of the ti tree, and as the spirit is unrectified it is both fiery and
                    unwholesome. Licences to sell spirits are confined to the capital. In spite of
                    the notoriously bad effect of alcohol in the tropics, people drink hard, and the
                    number of deaths which can be distinctly traced to spirit drinking is quite
                    startling.
                The prohibition on selling liquor to natives is the subject of incessant
                    discussions and “interpellations” in the national legislature. Probably all the
                    natives agree in regarding it as a badge of the “inferiority of colour;” but I
                    have been told generally that the most intelligent and thoughtful among them are
                    in favour of its continuance, on the ground that if additional facilities for
                    drinking were afforded, the decrease in the population would be accelerated. In
                    the printed “Parliamentary Proceedings,” I see that petitions are constantly
                    presented praying that the distillation of spirits may be declared free, while a
                    few are in favour of “total prohibition.” Another prayer is “that Hawaiians may
                    have the same privileges as white people in buying and drinking spirituous
                    liquors.”
                A bill to repeal the invidious distinction was brought into the legislature not
                    long since; but the influence of the descendants of the missionaries and of an
                    influential part of the white community is so strongly against spirit drinking, as well as against the sale of drink to the
                    natives, that the law remains on the Statute-book.
                The tone in which it was discussed is well indicated by the language of Kalakaua,
                    the present king's rival: “The restrictions imposed by this law do the people no
                    good, but rather harm; for instead of inculcating the principles of honour, they
                    teach them to steal behind the bar, the stable, and the closet, where they may
                    be sheltered from the eyes of the law. The heavy licence imposed on the liquor
                    dealers, and the prohibition against selling to the natives are an infringement
                    of our civil rights, binding not only the purchaser but the dealer against
                    acquiring and possessing property. Then, Mr. President, I ask, where lies
                    virtue, where lies justice? Not in those that bind the liberty of this people,
                    by refusing them the privilege that they now crave, of drinking spirituous
                    liquors without restriction. Will you by persisting that this law remain in
                    force make us a nation of hypocrites? or will you repeal it, that honour and
                    virtue may for once be yours, O Hawaii.” A committee of the Assembly, in
                    reporting on the question of the prohibition of the sale of intoxicants to
                    anybody, through its chairman, Mr. Carter, stated, “Experience teaches that such
                    prohibition could not be enforced without a strong public sentiment to indorse
                    it, and such a sentiment does not prevail in this community, as is evidenced by
                    the fact that the sale of intoxicating drinks to natives is largely practised in
                    defiance of law and the executive, and that the manufacture of intoxicating
                    drinks, though prohibited, is carried on in every district of the kingdom.” So
                    the question which is rising in every country
                    ruled or colonised by Anglo-Saxons, is also agitated here with very strong
                    feeling on both sides.
                I was led to this digression by seeing, for the first time, some very fine plants
                    of the Piper methysticum. This is awa, truly a “plant of renown” throughout
                    Polynesia. Strange tales are told of it. It is said to produce profound sleep,
                    with visions more enchanting than those of opium or hasheesh, and that its
                    repetition, instead of being deleterious, is harmless and even wholesome. Its
                    sale is prohibited, except on the production of evidence that it has been
                    prescribed as a drug. Nevertheless no law on the islands is so grossly violated.
                    It is easy to give it, and easy to grow it, or dig it up in the
                    woods, so that, in spite of the legal restrictions, it is used to an enormous
                    extent. It was proposed absolutely to prohibit the sale of it, though the sum
                    paid for the licence is no inconsiderable item in the revenue of a kingdom,
                    which, like many others, is experiencing the difficulty of “making both ends
                    meet;” but the committee which sat upon the subject reported “that such
                    prohibition is not practicable, unless its growth and cultivation are prevented.
                    So long as public sentiment permits the open violation of the existing laws
                    regulating its sale without rebuke, so long will it be of little use to attempt
                    prohibition.” One cannot be a day on the islands without hearing wonderful
                    stories about awa; and its use is defended by
                    some who are strongly opposed to the use as well as abuse of intoxicants. People
                    who like “The Earl and the Doctor” delight themselves in the strongly sensuous
                        element which pervades Polynesian
                    life,.delight themselves too, in contemplating the preparation and results of
                    the awa beverage; but both are to me extremely
                    disgusting, and I cannot believe that a drink, which stupifies the senses, and
                    deprives a human being of the power to exercise reason and will, is anything but
                    hurtful to the moral nature.
                While passing the Navigator group, one of my fellow-passengers, who had been for
                    some time in Tutuila, described the preparation of awa poetically, the root “being masticated by the pearly teeth of
                    dusky flower-clad maidens;” but I was an accidental witness of a nocturnal
                        “awa drinking” on Hawaii, and saw nothing
                    but very plain prose. I feel as if I must approach the subject mysteriously. I
                    had no time to tell you of the circumstance when it occurred, when also I was
                    completely ignorant that it was an illegal affair; and now with a sort of
                    “guilty knowledge” I tremble to relate what I saw, and to divulge that though I
                    could not touch the beverage, I tasted the root, which has an acrid pungent
                    taste, something like horse-radish, with an aromatic flavour in addition, and I
                    can imagine that the acquired taste for it must, like other acquired tastes, be
                    perfectly irresistible, even without the additional gratification of the results
                    which follow its exercise.
                In the particular instance which I saw, two girls who were not beautiful, and an
                    old man who would have been hideous but for a set of sound regular teeth, were
                    sitting on the ground masticating the awa
                    root, the process being contemplated with extreme interest by a number of
                        adults. When, by careful chewing, they had
                    reduced the root to a pulpy consistence, they tossed it into a large calabash,
                    and relieved their mouths of superfluous saliva before preparing a fresh
                    mouthful. This went on till a considerable quantity was provided, and then water
                    was added, and the mass was kneaded and stirred with the hands till it looked
                    like soap suds. It was then strained; and after more water had been added it was
                    poured into cocoa-nut calabashes, and handed round. Its appearance eventually
                    was like weak, frothy coffee and milk. The appearance of purely animal
                    gratification on the faces of those who drank it, instead of being poetic, was
                    of the low gross earth. Heads thrown back, lips parted with a feeble sensual
                    smile, eyes hazy and unfocussed, arms folded on the breast, and the mental
                    faculties numbed and sliding out of reach.
                Those who drink it pass through the stage of idiocy into a deep sleep, which it
                    is said can be reproduced once without an extra dose, by bathing in cold water.
                    Confirmed awa drinkers might be mistaken for
                    lepers, for they are covered with whitish scales, and have inflamed eyes and a
                    leathery skin, for the epidermis is thickened and whitened, and eventually peels
                    off. The habit has been adopted by not a few whites, specially on Hawaii,
                    though, of course, to a certain extent clandestinely. Awa is taken also as a medicine, and was supposed to be a certain
                    cure for corpulence.
                The root and base of the stem are the parts used, and it is best when these are
                    fresh. It seems to exercise a powerful fascination, and to be loved and
                    glorified as whisky is in Scotland, and wine
                    in southern Europe. In some of the other islands of Polynesia, on festive
                    occasions, when the chewed root is placed in the calabash, and the water is
                    poured on, the whole assemblage sings appropriate songs in its praise; and this
                    is kept up until the decoction has been strained to its dregs. But here, as the
                    using it as a beverage is an illicit process, a great mystery attends it. It is
                    said that awa drinking is again on the
                    increase, and with the illicit distillation of unwholesome spirits, and the
                    illicit sale of imported spirits and the opium smoking, the consumption of
                    stimulants and narcotics on the islands is very considerable.*
                To turn from drink to climate. It is strange that with such a heavy rainfall,
                    dwellings built on the ground and never dried by fires should be so perfectly
                    free from damp as they are. On seeing the houses here and in Honolulu, buried
                    away in dense foliage, my first thought was, “how lovely in summer, but how
                    unendurably damp in winter,” forgetting that I arrived in the nominal winter,
                    and that it is really summer all the year. Lest you should think that I am
                    perversely exaggerating the charms of the climate, I copy a sentence from a
                    speech made by Kamehameha IV., at the opening of an Hawaiian agricultural
                    society:—
                “Who ever heard of winter on our shores? Where among us shall we find the
                    numberless drawbacks which, in less favoured countries, the labourer has to
                    contend *
                        According to the revenue returns for the biennial period ending March 31,
                        1874, the revenue derived from awa was
                        over $9000, and that from opium $46,000. with? They have no place in our beautiful group,
                    which rests like a water lily on the swelling bosom of the Pacific. The heaven
                    is tranquil above our heads, and the sun keeps his jealous eye upon us every
                    day, while his rays are so tempered that they never wither prematurely what they
                    have warmed into life.”* The kindness of
                    my hosts is quite overwhelming. They will not hear of my buying a horse, but
                    insist on my taking away with me the one which I have been riding since I came,
                    the best I have ridden on the islands, surefooted, fast, easy, and ambitious. I
                    have complete sympathy with the passion which the natives have for riding.
                    Horses are abundant and cheap on Kauai: a fairly good one can be bought for $20.
                    I think every child possesses one. Indeed the horses seem to outnumber the
                    people.
                The eight native girls who are being trained and educated here as a “family
                    school” have their horses, and go out to ride as English children go for a romp
                    into a play-ground. Yesterday Mrs. S. said, “Now, girls, get the horses,” and
                    soon two little creatures of eight and ten came 
                        gal-
                        galloping
                    
                    The following
                        paragraph from Dr. Rupert Anderson's sober-minded book on the Sandwich
                        Islands fully bears out the king's remarks: “The islands all lie within the
                        range of the trade winds, which blow with great regularity nine months of
                        the year, and on the leeward side, where their course is obstructed by
                        mountains, there are regular land and sea breezes. The weather at all
                        seasons is delightful, the sky usually cloudless, the atmosphere clear and
                        bracing. Nothing can exceed the soft brilliancy of the moonlight nights.
                        Thunderstorms are rare and light in their nature. Hurricanes are unknown.
                        The general temperature is the nearest in the world to that point regarded
                        by physiologists as most conducive to health and longevity. By ascending the
                        mountains any desirable degree of temperature may be obtained.” loping up on two spirited animals. They had
                    not only caught and bridled them, but had put on the complicated Mexican saddles
                    as securely as if men had done it; and I got a lesson from them in making the
                    Mexican knot with the thong which secures the cinch, which will make me
                    independent henceforward.
                These children can all speak English, and their remarks are most original and
                    amusing. They have not a particle of respect of manner, as we understand it, but
                    seem very docile. They are naïve and fascinating in their manners, and the most
                    joyous children I ever saw. When they are not at their lessons, or household
                    occupations, they are dancing on stilts, acting plays of their own invention,
                    riding or bathing, and they laugh all day long. Mrs. S. has trained nearly
                    seventy since she has been here. If there were nothing else they see family life
                    in a pure and happy form, which must in itself be a moral training, and by dint
                    of untiring watchfulness they are kept aloof from the corrupt native
                    associations. Indeed they are not allowed to have any intercourse with natives,
                    for, according to one of the missionaries who has spent many years on the
                    islands: “None know or can conceive without personal observation the nameless
                    taint that pervades the whole garrulous talk and gregarious life of all heathen
                    peoples, and above which our poor Hawaiian friends have not yet risen.” Of this
                    universal impurity of speech every one speaks in the strongest terms, and
                    careful white parents not only seclude their children in early years from
                    restrained intercourse with the natives, but prevent them from acquiring the
                    Hawaiian tongue. In this respect the training
                    of native girls involves a degree of patient watchfulness which must at times
                    press heavily on those who undertake it, as the carefulness of years might fail
                    of its result, if it were intermitted for one afternoon.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXI.
                
                    MAKAUELI, KAUAI.
                
                AFTER my letters from Hawaii, and their narratives of
                    volcanoes, freshets, and out of the world valleys, you will think my present
                    letters dull, so I must begin this one pleasantly, by telling you that though I
                    have no stirring adventures to relate, I am enjoying myself and improving again
                    in health, and that the people are hospitable, genial, and cultivated, and that
                    Kauai, though altogether different from Hawaii, has an extreme beauty altogether
                    its own, which wins one's love, though it does not startle one into admiration
                    like that of the Hawaiian gulches. Is it because that, though the magic of
                    novelty is over it, there is a perpetual undercurrent of home resemblance? The
                    dash of its musical waters might be in Cumberland; its swelling uplands, with
                    their clumps of trees, might be in Kent; and then again, steep, broken, wooded
                    ridges, with glades of grass, suggest the Val Moutiers; and broader sweeps of
                    mountain outline, the finest scenery of the Alleghanies.
                But yet the very things which have a certain tenderness of familiarity, are in a
                    foreign setting. The great expanse of restful sea, so faintly blue all day, and
                    so faintly red in the late afternoon, is like no other ocean in its unutterable peace; and this joyous, riotous
                    trade-wind, which rustles the trees all day, and falls asleep at night, and
                    cools the air, seems to come from some widely different laboratory than that in
                    which our vicious east winds, and damp west winds, and piercing north winds, and
                    suffocating south winds are concocted. Here one cannot ride “into the teeth of a
                    north-easter,” for such the trade-wind really is, without feeling at once
                    invigorated, and wrapped in an atmosphere of balm. It is not here so tropical
                    looking as in Hawaii, and though there are not the frightful volcanic
                    wildernesses which make a thirsty solitude in the centre of that island, neither
                    are there those bursts of tropical luxuriance which make every gulch an epitome
                    of Paradise: I really cannot define the difference, for here, as there, palms
                    glass themselves in still waters, bananas flourish, and the forests are green
                    with ferns.
                We took three days for our journey of twenty-three miles from Koloa, the we,
                    consisting of Mrs. —, the widow of an early missionary teacher, venerable in
                    years and character, a native boy of ten years old, her squire, a second Kaluna,
                    without Kaluna's good qualities, and myself. Mrs. — is not a bold horsewoman,
                    and preferred to keep to a foot's pace, which fretted my ambitious animal, whose
                    innocent antics alarmed her in turn. We only rode seven miles the first day,
                    through a park-like region, very like Western Wisconsin, and just like what I
                    expected and failed to find in New Zealand. Grass-land much tumbled about, the
                    turf very fine and green, dotted over with clumps and single trees, with picturesque, rocky hills, deeply cleft by
                    water-courses were on our right, and on our left the green slopes blended with
                    the flushed, stony soil near the sea, on which indigo and various composite are
                    the chief vegetation. It was hot, but among the hills on our right, cool clouds
                    were coming down in frequent showers, and the white foam of cascades gleamed
                    among the ohias, whose dark foliage at a
                    distance has almost the look of pine woods.
                Our first halting place was one of the prettiest places I ever saw, a buff
                    frame-house, with a deep verandah festooned with passion flowers, two or three
                    guest houses also bright with trailers, scattered about under the trees near it,
                    a pretty garden, a background of grey rocky hills cool with woods and ravines,
                    and over all the vicinity, that air of exquisite trimness which is artificially
                    produced in England, but is natural here.
                Kaluna the Second soon showed symptoms of being troublesome. The native servants
                    were away, and he was dull, and for that I pitied him. He asked leave to go back
                    to Koloa for a “sleeping tapa,” which was refused, and either out of spite or
                    carelessness, instead of fastening the horses into the pasture, he let them go,
                    and the following morning when we were ready for our journey they were lost.
                    Then he borrowed a horse, and late in the afternoon returned with the four
                    animals, who were all white with foam and dust, and this escapade detained us
                    another night. Subsequently, after disobeying orders, he lost his horse, which
                    was a borrowed one, deserted his mistress, and absconded!
                
                The slopes over which we travelled were red, hot, and stony, cleft in one place
                    however, by a green, fertile valley, full of rice and kalo patches, and native houses, with a broad river, the
                    Hanapépé, flowing quietly down the middle, which we forded near the sea, where
                    it was half-way up my horse's sides. After plodding all day over stony soil in
                    the changeless sunshine, as the shadows lengthened, we turned directly up
                    towards the mountains and began a two hours ascent. It was delicious. They were
                    so cool, so green, so varied, their grey pinnacles so splintered, their
                    precipices so abrupt, their ravines so dark and deep, and their lower slopes
                    covered with the greenest and finest grass; then dark ohias rose singly, then in twos and threes, and finally mixed in
                    dense forest masses, with the pea-green of the kukui.
                It became yet lovelier as the track wound through deep wooded ravines, or snaked
                    along the narrow tops of spine-like ridges; the air became cooler, damper, and
                    more like elixir, till at a height of 1500 feet we came upon Makaueli, ideally
                    situated upon an unequalled natural plateau, a house of patriarchal size for the
                    islands, with a verandah festooned with roses, fuchsias, the water lemon, and
                    other passion flowers, and with a large guest-house attached. It stands on a
                    natural lawn, with abrupt slopes, sprinkled with orange trees burdened with
                    fruit, ohias, and hibiscus. From the back
                    verandah the forest-covered mountains rise, and in front a deep ravine widens to
                    the grassy slopes below and the lonely Pacific,—as I write, a golden sea, on
                    which the island of Niihau, eighteen miles distant, floats like an amethyst.
                
                The solitude is perfect. Except the “quarters” at the back, I think there is not
                    a house, native or foreign, within six miles, though there are several hundred
                    natives on the property. Birds sing in the morning, and the trees rustle
                    throughout the day; but in the cool evenings the air is perfectly still, and the
                    trickle of a stream is the only sound.
                The house has the striking novelty of a chimney, and there is a fire all day long
                    in the dining-room.
                I must now say a little about my hosts and try to give you some idea of them. I
                    heard their history from Mr. Damon, and thought it too strange to be altogether
                    true until it was confirmed by themselves.* The venerable lady at the head of the house emigrated from Scotland
                    to New Zealand many years ago, where her husband was unfortunately drowned, and
                    she being left to bring up a large family, and manage a large property, was
                    equally successful with both. Her great ambition was to keep her family
                    together, something on the old patriarchal system; and when her children grew
                    up, and it seemed as if even their very extensive New Zealand property was not
                    large enough for them, she sold it, and embarking her family and moveable
                    possessions on board a clipper-ship, owned and commanded by one of her
                    sons-in-law, they sailed through the Pacific in search of a home where they
                    could remain together.
                They were strongly tempted by Tahiti, but some * These circumstances are well-known throughout
                        the islands, and with the omission of some personal details, there is
                        nothing which may not be known by a larger public. reasons having decided them against it, they sailed
                    northwards and put into Honolulu. Mr. Damon, who was seaman's chaplain, on going
                    down to the wharf one day, was surprised to find their trim barque, with this
                    immense family party on board, with a beautiful and brilliant old lady at its
                    head, books, pictures, work, and all that could add refinement to a floating
                    home, about them, and cattle and sheep of valuable breeds in pens on deck. They
                    then sailed for British Columbia, but were much disappointed with it, and in
                    three months they re-appeared at Honolulu, much at a loss regarding their future
                    prospects.
                The island of Niihau was then for sale, and in a very short time they purchased
                    it of Kamehameha V. for a ridiculously low price, and taking their wooden houses
                    with them, established themselves for seven years. It is truly isolated, both by
                    a heavy surf and a disagreeable sea passage, and they afterwards bought this
                    beautiful and extensive property, made a road, and built the house. Only the
                    second son and his wife live now on Niihau, where they are the only white
                    residents among 350 natives. It has an area of 70,000 acres, and could sustain a
                    far larger number of sheep than the 20,000 now upon it. It is said that the
                    transfer of the island involved some hardships, owing to a number of the natives
                    having neglected to legalise their claims to their kuleanas, but the present possessors have made themselves
                    thoroughly acquainted with the language, and take the warmest interest in the
                    island population. Niilhau is famous for its very fine mats, and for necklaces
                    of shells six yards long, as well as for the
                    extreme beauty and variety of the shells which are found there.
                The household here consists first and foremost of its head, Mrs. —, a lady of the
                    old Scotch type, very talented, bright, humorous, charming, with a definite
                    character which impresses its force upon everybody; beautiful in her old age,
                    disdaining that servile conformity to prevailing fashion which makes many old
                    people at once ugly and contemptible: speaking English with a slight,
                    old-fashioned, refined Scotch accent, which gives naïveté to everything she
                    says, up to the latest novelty in theology and politics: devoted to her children
                    and grandchildren, the life of the family, and though upwards of seventy, the
                    first to rise, and the last to retire in the house. She was away when I came,
                    but some days afterwards rode up on horseback, in a large drawn silk bonnet,
                    which she rarely lays aside, as light in her figure and step as a young girl,
                    looking as if she had walked out of an old picture, or one of Dean Ramsay's
                    books.
                Then there are her eldest son, a bachelor, two widowed daughters with six
                    children between them, three of whom are grown up young men, and a tutor, a
                    young Prussian officer, who was on Maximilian's staff up to the time of the
                    Queretaro disaster, and is still suffering from Mexican barbarities. The
                    remaining daughter is married to a Norwegian gentleman, who owns and resides on
                    the next property. So the family is together, and the property is large enough
                    to give scope to the grandchildren as they require it.
                They are thoroughly Hawaiianised. The young people all speak Hawaiian as easily as English, and the
                    three young men, who are superb young fellows, about six feet high, not only
                    emulate the natives in feats of horsemanship, such as throwing the lasso, and
                    picking up a coin while going at full gallop, but are surf-board riders, an art
                    which it has been said to be impossible for foreigners to acquire.
                The natives on Niihau and in this part of Kauai, call Mrs. — “Mama.” Their rent
                    seems to consist in giving one or more days' service in a month, so it is a
                    revival of the old feudality. In order to patronise native labour, my hosts
                    dispense with a Chinese, and employ a native cook, and native women come in and
                    profess to do some of the housework, but it is a very troublesome arrangement,
                    and ends in the ladies doing all the finer cooking, and superintending the
                    coarser, setting the table, trimming the lamps, cutting out and “fixing” all the
                    needlework, besides planning the indoor and outdoor work which the natives are
                    supposed to do. Having related their proficiency in domestic duties, I must add
                    that they are splendid horsewomen, one of them an excellent shot, and the other
                    has enough practical knowledge of seamanship, as well as navigation, to enable
                    her to take a ship round the world! It is a busy life, owing to the large number
                    of natives daily employed, and the necessity of looking after the native
                        lunas, or overseers. Dr. Smith at Koloa,
                    twenty-two miles off, is the only doctor on the island, and the natives resort
                    to this house in great numbers for advice and medicine in their many ailments.
                    It is much such a life as people lead at
                    Ramsay, Applecross, or some other remote Highland place, only that people who
                    come to visit here, unless they ride twenty-two miles, must come to the coast in
                    the Jenny instead of being conveyed by one of David Hutcheson's
                    luxurious steamers. If the Clansman were “put on,” probably the
                    great house would not contain the strangers who would arrive!
                We were sitting in the library one morning when Mr. M., of Timaru, N.Z., rode up
                    with an introduction, and was of course cordially welcomed. He goes on to
                    England, where you will doubtless cross-question him concerning my statements.
                    During his visit a large party of us made a delightful expedition to the
                    Hanapépé Falls, one of the “lions” of Kauai. It is often considered too “rough”
                    for ladies, and when Mrs. — and I said we were going, I saw Mr. M. look as if he
                    thought we should be a dependent nuisance; I was amused afterwards with his
                    surprise at Mrs. —'s courageous horsemanship, and at his obvious confusion as to
                    whether he should help us, which question he wisely decided in the negative.
                If “happiness is atmosphere,” we were surely happy. The day was brilliant, and as
                    cool as early June at home, but the sweet, joyous trade-wind could not be brewed
                    elsewhere than on the Pacific. The scenery was glorious, and mountains, trees,
                    frolicsome water, and scarlet birds, all rioted as if in conscious happiness.
                    Existence was a luxury, and reckless riding a mere outcome of the animal spirits
                    of horses and riders, and the thud of the shoeless feet as the
                    horses galloped over the soft grass was sweeter than music. I could hardly hold
                    my horse at all, and down hills as steep as
                    the east side of Arthur's Seat, over knife-like ridges too narrow for two to
                    ride abreast, and along side-tracks only a foot wide, we rode at full gallop,
                    till we pulled up at the top of a descent of 2,000 feet with a broad, rapid
                    river at its feet, emerging from between colossal walls of rock to girdle a
                    natural lawn of the bright manienie grass.
                    There had been a “drive” of horses, and numbers of these, with their picturesque
                    saddles, were picketed there, while their yet more picturesque, scarlet-shirted
                    riders lounged in the sun.
                It was a difficult two hours' ride from thence to the Falls, worthy of Hawaii,
                    and since my adventures in the Hilo gulches I cannot cross running water without
                    feeling an amount of nervousness which I can conceal, but cannot reason myself
                    out of. In going and returning, we forded the broad, rugged river twenty-six
                    times, always in water up to my horse's girths, and the bottom was so rocky and
                    full of holes, and the torrent so impetuous, that the animals floundered badly
                    and evidently disliked the whole affair. Once it had been possible to ride along
                    the edge, but the river had torn away what there was of margin in a freshet, so
                    that we had to cross perpetually, to attain the rough, boulder-strewn strips
                    which lay between the cliffs and itself. Sometimes we rode over roundish
                    boulders like those on the top of Ben Cruachan, or like those of the landing at
                    Iona, and most of those under the rush of the bright foaming water were covered
                    with a silky green weed, on which the horses slipped alarmingly. My companions
                    always took the lead, and by the time that each of their horses had struggled, slipped, and floundered in and out of
                    holes, and breasted and leapt up steep banks, I was ready to echo Mr. M.'s
                    exclamation regarding Mrs. —, “I never saw such riding; I never saw ladies with
                    such nerve.” I certainly never saw people encounter such difficulties for the
                    sake of scenery. Generally, a fall would be regarded as practically inaccessible
                    which could only be approached in such a way.
                I will not inflict another description of similar scenery upon you, but this,
                    though perhaps exceeding all others in beauty, is not only a type, perhaps the
                    finest type, of a species of cañon very common
                    on these islands, but is also so interesting geologically that you must tolerate
                    a very few words upon it.
                The valley for two or three miles from the sea is nearly level, very fertile, and
                    walled in by palis 250 feet high, much grooved
                    vertically, and presenting fine layers of conglomerate and grey basalt; and the
                    Hanapépé winds quietly through the region which it fertilises, a stream several
                    hundred feet wide, with a soft, smooth bottom. But four miles inland the bed
                    becomes rugged and declivitous, and the mountain walls close in, forming a most
                    magnificent cañon from 1,000 to 2,500 feet
                    deep. Other cañons of nearly equal beauty
                    descend to swell the Hanapépé with their clear, cool, tributaries, and there are
                    “meetings of the waters” worthier of verse than those of Avoca. The walls are
                    broken and highly fantastic, narrowing here, receding there, their
                    strangely-arched. recesses festooned with the feathery trichomanes, their
                    Clustering columns and broken buttresses suggesting some old-world minster, and their stately tiers of
                    columnar basalt rising one above another in barren grey into the far-off blue
                    sky. The river in carving out the gorge so grandly has most energetically
                    removed all rubbish, and even the tributaries of the lateral cañons do not accumulate any “wash” in the main
                    bed. The walls as a rule rise clear from the stream, which, besides its lateral
                    tributaries, receives other contributions in the form of waterfalls, which hurl
                    themselves into it from the cliffs in one leap.
                After ascending it for four miles all further progress was barred by a pali which curves round from the right, and closes
                    the chasm with a perpendicular wall, over which the Hanapépé precipitates itself
                    from a height of 326 feet, forming the Koula Falls. At the summit is a very fine
                    entablature of curved columnar basalt, resembling the clam shell cave at Staffa,
                    and two high, sharp, and impending peaks on the other side form a stately
                    gateway for a stream which enters from another and broader valley; but it is but
                    one among many small cascades, which round the arc of the falls flash out in
                    foam among the dark foliage, and contribute their tiny warble to the diapason of
                    the waterfall. It rewards one well for penetrating the deep gash which has been
                    made into the earth. It seemed so very far away from all buzzing, frivolous, or
                    vexing things, in the cool, dark abyss into which only the noon-day sun
                    penetrates. All beautiful things which love damp; all exquisite, tender ferns
                    and mosses; all shade-loving parasites flourish there in perennial beauty. And
                    high above in the sunshine, the pea-green
                    candle-nut struggles with the dark ohia for
                    precarious roothold on rocky ledges, and dense masses of Eugenia, aflame with
                    crimson flowers, and bananas, and all the leafy wealth born of heat and damp
                    fill up the clefts which fissure the pali.
                    Every now and then some scarlet tropic bird flashed across the shadow, but it
                    was a very lifeless and a very silent scene. The arches, buttresses, and columns
                    suggest a temple, and the deep tone of the fall is as organ music. It is all
                    beauty, solemnity, and worship.
                It was sad to leave it and to think how very few eyes can ever feast themselves
                    on its beauty. We came back again into gladness and sunshine, and to the vulgar
                    necessity of eating, which the natives ministered to by presenting us with a
                    substantial meal of stewed fowls and sweet potatoes at the nearest shanty. There
                    must have been something intoxicating in the air, for we rode wildly and
                    recklessly, galloping down steep hills (which on principle I object to), and
                    putting our horses to their utmost speed. Mine ran off with me several times,
                    and once nearly upset Mr. M.'s horse, as he probably will tell you.
                The natives annoy me everywhere by their inhumanity to their horses. To-day I
                    became an object of derision to them for hunting for sow-thistles, and bringing
                    back a large bundle of them to my excellent animal. They starve their horses
                    from mere carelessness or laziness, spur them mercilessly, when the jaded,
                    famished things almost drop from exhaustion, ride them with great sores under
                    the saddles, and with their bodies deeply cut with the rough girths; and though horses are not regarded
                    as more essential in any part of the world, they neglect and maltreat them in
                    every way, and laugh scornfully if one shows any consideration for them. Except
                    for short shopping distances in Honolulu, I have never seen a native man or
                    woman walking. They think walking a degradation, and I have seen men take the
                    trouble to mount horses to go 100 yards.
                I have no time to tell you of a three days' expedition which five of us made into
                    the heart of the nearer mountainous district, attended by some mounted natives.
                    Mr. K., from whose house we started, has the finest mango grove on the islands.
                    It is a fine foliaged tree, but is everywhere covered with a black blight, which
                    gives the groves the appearance of being in mourning, as the tough, glutinous
                    film covers all the older leaves. The mango is an exotic fruit, and people think
                    a great deal of it, and send boxes of mangoes as presents to their friends. It
                    is yellow, with a reddish bloom, something like a magnum bonum plum, three times
                    magnified. The only way of eating it in comfort is to have a tub of water beside
                    you. It should be eaten in private by any one who wants to retain the admiration
                    of his friends. It has an immense stone, and a disproportionately small pulp. I
                    think it tastes strongly of turpentine at first, but this is a heresy.
                Beyond Waielva and its mango groves there is a very curious sand bank about 60
                    feet high, formed by wind and currents, and of a steep, uniform angle from top
                    to bottom. It is very coarse sand, composed of shells, coral, and lava. When two handfuls are slapped together, a
                    sound like the barking of a dog ensues, hence its name, the Barking Sands. It is
                    a common amusement with strangers to slide their horses down the steep incline,
                    which produces a sound like subterranean thunder, which terrifies unaccustomed
                    animals. Besides this phenomenon, the mirage is often seen on the dry, hot soil,
                    and so perfectly, too, that strangers have been known to attempt to ride round
                    the large lake which they saw before them.
                Pleasant as our mountain trip was, both in itself, and as a specimen of the way
                    in which foreigners recreate themselves on the islands, I was glad to get back
                    to the broad Waimea, on which long shadows of palms reposed themselves in the
                    slant sunshine, and in the short red twilight to arrive at this breezy height,
                    and be welcomed by a blazing fire.
                Mrs. —, in speaking of the mode of living here, was telling me that on a recent
                    visit to England she felt depressed the whole time by what appeared to her “the
                    scarcity” in the country. I never knew the meaning of the Old Testament blessing
                    of “plenty” and “bread to the full” till I was in abundant Victoria, and it is
                    much the same here. At home we know nothing of this, which was one of the
                    chiefest of the blessings promised in the Old Testament. Its
                        genialising effect is very obvious. A man feels more
                    practically independent, I think, when he can say to all his friends, “Drop in
                    to dinner whenever you like,” than if he possessed the franchise six times over;
                    and people can indulge in hospitality and exercise the franchise, too, here, for meat is only twopence a
                    pound, and bananas can be got for the gathering. The ever-increasing cost of
                    food with us makes free-hearted hospitality an impossibility, and withers up all
                    those kindly instincts which find expression in housing and feeding both friends
                    and strangers.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXII.
                
                    LIHUE. KAUAI.
                
                I RODE from Makaneli to Dr. Smith's, at Koloa, with two native
                    attendants, a luna to sustain my dignity, and
                    an inferior native to carry my carpet-bag. Horses are ridden with curb-bits
                    here, and I had only brought a light snaffle, and my horse ran away with me
                    again on the road, and when he stopped at last, these men rode alongside of me,
                    mimicking me, throwing themselves back with their feet forwards, tugging at
                    their bridles, and shrieking with laughter, exclaiming Maikai! Maikai! (good).
                I remained several days at Koloa, and would gladly have accepted the hospitable
                    invitation to stay as many weeks, but for a cowardly objection to “beating to
                    windward” in the Jenny. The scenery in the Koloa woods is
                    exquisitely beautiful. Such supreme beauty produces on mae some of the effects
                    which fine music has upon those who have an exquisite sense of it. It speaks in
                    a language of its own, like music, and is equally untranslatable.
                One day, the girls asked me to go with them to the forests and return by
                    moonlight, but they only spoke of them as the haunts of ferns, because they
                    supposed that I should think nothing of them
                    after the forests of Australia and New Zealand! They were not like the tropical
                    woods of Hawaii, and owe more to the exceeding picturesqueness of the natural
                    scenery. Hawaii is all domes and humps, Kauai all peaks and sierras. There were
                    deep ravines, along which bright fern-shrouded streams brawlecd among wild
                    bananas, overarched by Eugenias, with their gory blossoms: walls of peaks, and
                    broken precipices, grey ridges rising out of the blue forest gloom, high
                    mountains with mists wreathing their spiky summits, for a background: gleams of
                    a distant silver sea: and the nearer many-tinted woods were not matted together
                    in jungle fashion, but festooned and adorned with numberless lianas, and even
                    the prostrate trunks of fallen trees took on new beauty from the exquisite ferns
                    which covered them. Long cathedral aisles stretched away in far-off vistas, and
                    so perfect at times was the Gothic illusion, that I found myself listening for
                    anthems and the roll of organs. So cool and moist it was, and triumphantly
                    redundant in vagaries of form and greenery, it was a forest of forests, and it
                    became a necessity to return the next day, and the next; and I think if I had
                    remained at Koloa I should have been returning still.
                This place is outside the beauty, among cane-fields, and is much swept by the
                    trade winds. Mr. Rice, my host, is the son of an esteemed missionary, and he and
                    his wife take a deep interest in the natives. When he brought her here as a
                    bride a few months ago, the natives were so delighted that he had married an
                    island lady who could speak Hawaiian, that they gave them an ahaaina,
                     or native feast, on a grand scale. The food
                    was cooked in Polynesian style, by being wrapped up in greens called luau, and baked underground. There were two
                    bullocks, nineteen hogs, a hundred fowls, any quantity of poi and fruit, and innumerable native dishes. Five
                    hundred natives, profusely decorated with leis
                    of flowers and mailé, were there, and each
                    brought a gift for the bride. After the feast they chaunted mélés in praise of Mr. Rice, and Mrs. Rice played
                    to them on her piano, an instrument which they had not seen before, and sang
                    songs to them in Hawaiian. Mr. and Mrs. R. teach in and superintend a native
                    Sunday-school, and have enlisted twenty native teachers, and in order to keep up
                    the interest and promote cordial feeling, they and the other teachers meet once
                    a month for a regular teachers' meeting, taking the houses in rotation.
                    Refreshments are served afterwards, and they say that nothing can be more
                    agreeable than the good feeling at the meetings, and the tact and graceful
                    hospitality which prevail at the subsequent entertainments.
                The Hawaiians are a most pleasant people to foreigners, but many of their ways
                    are altogether aggravating. Unlike the Chinamen, they seldom do a thing right
                    twice. In my experience, they have almost never saddled and bridled my horse
                    quite correctly. Either a strap has been left unbuckled, or the blanket has been
                    wrinkled under the saddle. They are too easy to care much about anything. If any
                    serious loss arises to themselves or others through their carelessness, they
                    shrug their shoulders, and say, “What does it matter?” Any trouble is just a
                        pilikia. They can't help it. If they lose your horse from neglecting to tether it,
                    they only laugh when they find you are wanting to proceed on your journey. Time,
                    they think, is nothing to any one. “What's the use of being in a hurry?” Their
                    neglect of their children, a cause from which a large proportion of the few born
                    perish, is a part of this universal carelessness. The crime of infanticide,
                    which formerly prevailed to a horrible extent, has long been extinct; but the
                    love of pleasure and the dislike of trouble which partially actuated it, are
                    apparently still stronger among the women than the maternal instinct, and they
                    do not take the trouble necessary to rear their infants. They give their
                    children away, too, to a great extent, and I have heard of instances in which
                    children have been so passed from hand to hand, that they are quite ignorant of
                    their real parents. It is an odd caprice in some cases, that women who have
                    given away their own children are passionately attached to those whom they have
                    received as presents, but I have nowhere seen such tenderness lavished upon
                    infants as upon the pet dogs that the women carry about with them. Though they
                    are so deficient in adhesiveness to family ties, that wives seek other husbands,
                    and even children desert their parents for adoptive homes, the tie of race is
                    intensely strong, and they are remarkably affectionate to each other, sharing
                    with each other food, clothing, and all that they possess. There are no paupers
                    among them but the lunatics and the lepers, and vagrancy is unknown. Happily on
                    these sunny shores no man or woman can be tempted into sin by want.
                With all their faults, and their intolerable carelessness, all the foreigners like them, partly from the
                    absolute security which they enjoy among them. They are so thoroughly
                    good-natured, mirthful, and friendly, and so ready to enter heart and soul into
                    all haole diversions, that the islands would
                    be dreary indeed if the dwindling race became extinct.
                Among the many misfortunes of the islands, it has been a fortunate thing that the
                    missionaries' families have turned out so well, and that there is no ground for
                    the common reproach that good men's sons turn out reprobates.
                The Americans show their usual practical sagacity in missionary matters. In 1853,
                    when these islands were nominally Christianised, and a native ministry
                    consisting of fifty-six pastors had been established, the American Board of
                    Missions, which had expended during thirty-five years nine hundred and three
                    thousand dollars in Christianising the group, and had sent out 149 male and
                    female missionaries, resolved that it should not receive any further aid either
                    in men or money.
                In the early days, the King and chiefs had bestowed lands upon the Mission, on
                    which substantial mission premises had been erected, and on withdrawing from the
                    islands, the Board wisely made over these lands to the Mission families as
                    freehold property. The result has been that, instead of a universal migration of
                    the young people to America, numbers of them have been attached to Hawaiian
                    soil. The establishment at an early date of Punahou College, at which for a
                    small sum both boys and girls receive a first-class English education, also contributed to retain them on the islands,
                    and numbers of the young men entered into sugar-growing, cattle-raising,
                    storekeeping, and other businesses here. At Honolulu and Hilo a large proportion
                    of the residents of the upper class are missionaries' children; most of the
                    respectable foreigners on Kauai are either belonging to, or intimately connected
                    with, the Mission families; and they are profusely scattered through Maui and
                    Hawaii in various capacities, and are bound to each other by ties of extreme
                    intimacy and friendliness, as well as by marriage and affinity. This “clan” has
                    given society what it much wants—a sound moral core, and in spite of all
                    disadvantageous influences, has successfully upheld a public opinion in favour
                    of religion and virtue. The members of it possess the moral backbone of New
                    England, and its solid good qualities, a thorough knowledge of the language and
                    habits of the natives, a hereditary interest in them, a solid education, and in
                    many cases much general culture.
                In former letters I have mentioned Mr. Coan and Mr. Lyons as missionaries. I must
                    correct this, as there have been no actual missionaries on the islands for
                    twenty years. When the Board withdrew its support, many of the missionaries
                    returned to America; some, especially the secular members, went into other
                    positions on the group, while the two first-mentioned and two or three besides,
                    remained as pastors of native congregations.
                I venture to think that the Board has been premature in transferring the islands
                    to a native pastorate at such a very early
                    stage of their Christianity. Such a pastorate must be too feeble to uphold a
                    robust Christian standard. As an adjunct it would be essential to the stability
                    of native Christianity, but it is not possible that it can be trusted as the
                    sole depository of doctrine and discipline, and even were it all it ought to be,
                    it would lack the power to repress the lax morality which is ruining the nation.
                    Probably each year will render the overhaste of this course more apparent, and
                    it is likely that some other mode of upholding pure Christianity will have to be
                    adopted, when the venerable men who now sustain and guide the native pastors by
                    their influence shall have been gathered to their rest.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXIII.
                
                    
                        LIHUE. KAUAI, April 17.
                    
                    BEFORE leaving Kauai I must tell you of a solitary
                        expedition I have just made to the lovely valley of Hanalei. It was only a
                        three days' “frolic,” but an essentially “good time.” Mr. Rice provided me
                        with a horse and a very pleasing native guide. I did not leave till two in
                        the afternoon, as I only intended to ride fifteen miles, and, as the custom
                        is, ask for a night's lodging at a settler's house. However, as I drew near
                        Mr. B.'s ranch, I felt my false courage oozing out of the tips of my
                        fingers, and as I rode up to the door, certain obnoxious colonial words,
                        such as “sundowners,” and “bummers,” occurred to me, and I felt myself a
                        “sundowner” when the host came out and asked me to dismount. He said he was
                        sorry his wife was away, but he would do his best for me in her absence, and
                        took me down to a room where a very rough-looking man was tenderly nursing a
                        baby a year old, which was badly burned or scalded, and which began to cry
                        violently at my entrance, and required the united efforts of the two
                        bereaved men to pacify it. They had the charge of it between them. I took it
                        while they went to make some tea, and it kicked, roared, and fought until
                        they came back. By that time I had prepared a neat little speech saying that
                        I was not the least tired, and would only
                        trouble them for a glass of water; and, having covered my cowardice
                        successfully, I went on, having been urged by the hospitable ranchman to be
                        sure to stay for the night at his father-in-law's house, a few miles further
                        on. I saw that the wishes of the native went in the same direction, but
                        after my one experience I assured myself that I had not the necessary nerve
                        for this species of mendicancy, and went on as fast as the horse could
                        gallop wherever the ground admitted of it, the scenery becoming more
                        magnificent as the dark, frowning mountains of Hanalei loomed through the
                        gathering twilight.
                    But they were fifteen miles off, and on the way we came to a broad, beautiful
                        ravine, through which a broad, deep river glided into the breakers. I had
                        received some warnings about this, but it was supposed that we could cross
                        in a ferry scow, of which, however, I only found the bones. The guide and
                        the people at the ferryman's house talked long without result, but
                        eventually, by many signs, I contrived to get them to take me over in a
                        crazy punt, half full of water, and the horses swam across. Before we
                        reached the top of the ravine, the last redness of twilight had died from
                        off the melancholy ocean, the black forms of mountains looked huge in the
                        darkness, and the wind sighed so eerily through the creaking lauhalas, as to add much to the effect. It
                        became so very dark that I could only just see my horse's ears, and we found
                        ourselves occasionally in odd predicaments, such as getting into crevices,
                        or dipping off from steep banks; and it was in dense darkness that we
                        arrived above what appeared to be a valley with twinkling lights, lying at
                        the foot of a precipice, and walled in on
                        all sides but one by lofty mountains. It was rather queer, diving over the
                        wooded pali on a narrow track, with
                        nothing in sight but the white jacket of the native, who had already
                        indicated that he was at the end of his resources regarding the way, but
                        just as a river gleamed alarmingly through the gloom, a horseman on a
                        powerful horse brushed through the wood, and on being challenged in Hawaiian
                        replied in educated English, and very politely turned with me, and escorted
                        me over a disagreeable ferry in a scow without rails, and to my destination,
                        two miles beyond.
                    Yesterday, when I left, the morning was brilliant, and after ascending the
                            pali, I stayed for some time on an
                        eminence which commands the valley, presented by Mr. Wyllie to Lady
                        Franklin, in compliment to her admiration of its loveliness. Hanalei has
                        been likened by some to Paradise, and by others to the Vale of Caschmir.
                        Everyone who sees it raves about it. “See Hanalei and die,” is the feeling
                        of the islanders, and certainly I was not disappointed, nor should I be with
                        Paradise itself were it even a shade less fair! It has every element of
                        beauty, and in the bright sunshine, with the dark shadows on the mountains,
                        the waterfalls streaking their wooded sides, the river rushing under
                            kukuis and ohias, and then lingering lovingly amidst living greenery, it
                        looked as if the curse had never lighted there.
                    Its mouth, where it opens on the Pacific, is from two to three miles wide,
                        but the boundary mountains gradually approach each other, so that five miles
                        from the sea a narrow gorge of wonderful beauty alone remains. The
                            crystal Hanalei flows placidly to the
                        sea for the last three or four miles, tired by its impetuous rush from the
                        mountains, and mirrors on its breast hundreds of acres of cane, growing on a
                        plantation formerly belonging to Mr. Wyllie, an enterprising Ayrshire man,
                        and one of the ablest and most disinterested foreigners who ever
                        administered Hawaiian affairs. Westward of the valley there is a region of
                        mountains, slashed by deep ravines. The upper ridges are densely timbered,
                        and many of the ohias have a circumference
                        of twenty-five feet, three feet from the ground. It was sad to turn away for
                        ever from the loveliness of Hanalei, even though by taking another route,
                        which involved a ride of forty miles, I passed through and in view of, most
                        entrancing picturesqueness. Indeed, for mere loveliness, I think that part
                        of Kauai exceeds anything that I have seen.
                    The atmosphere and scenery were so glorious that it was possible to think of
                        nothing all day, but just allow oneself passively to drink in sensations of
                        exquisite pleasure. I wish all the hard-worked people at home, who lead
                        joyless lives in sunless alleys, could just have one such day, and enjoy it
                        as I did, that they might know how fair God's earth is, and how far fairer
                        His Paradise must be, if even from this we cannot conceive “of the things
                        which He hath prepared for them that love Him.” I never before felt so sad
                        for those whose lives are passed amidst unpropitious surroundings, or so
                        thankful for my own capacity of enjoying nature.
                    Just as we were coming up out of a deep river, a native riding about six feet
                        from me was caught in a quicksand. He
                        jumped off, but the horse sank half way up its body. I wanted to stay and
                        see it extricated, for its struggles only sank it deeper, but the natives
                        shrugged their shoulders, and said in Hawaiian, “only a horse,” and
                        something they always say when anything happens, equivalent to “What's the
                        odds?” It was a joyously-exciting day, and I was galloping down a grass hill
                        at a pace which I should not have assumed had white people been with me,
                        when a native rode up to me and said twice over, “maikai! paniola,” and laughed heartily. When my native came
                        up, he pointed to me and again said “paniola;” and afterwards we were joined by two women, to whom
                        my guide spoke of me as paniola; and on
                        coming to the top of a hill they put their horses into a gallop, and we all
                        rode down at a tremendous, and, as I should once have thought, a break-neck
                        speed, when one of the women patted me on the shoulder, exclaiming,
                            “maikai! maikai! paniola.” I thought
                        they said “spaniola,” taking me for a
                        Spaniard, but on reaching Lihue, and asking the meaning of the word, Mrs.
                        Rice said, “Oh, lassoing cattle, and all that kind of thing.” I was disposed
                        to accept the inference as a compliment; but when I told Mrs. R. that the
                        word had been applied to myself, she laughed very much, and said she would
                        have toned down its meaning had she known that!
                    We rode through forests lighted up by crimson flowers, through mountain
                        valleys greener than Alpine meadows, descended steep palis, and forded deep, strong rivers, pausing at the
                        beautiful Wailua Falls, which leap in a broad sheet of foam and a heavy body
                        of water into a dark basin, walled in by
                        cliffs so hard that even the ferns and mosses which revel in damp, fail to
                        find roothold in the naked rock. Both above and below, this river passes
                        through a majestic cañon, and its
                        neighbourhood abounds in small cones, some with crateriform cavities at the
                        top, some broken down, and others, apparently of great age, wooded to their
                        summits. A singular ridge, called Mauna Kalalea, runs along this part of the
                        island, picturesque beyond anything, and, from its abruptness and peculiar
                        formation, it deceives the eye into judging it to be as high as the gigantic
                        domes of Hawaii. Its peaks are needle-like, or else blunt projections of
                        columnar basalt, rising ofttimes as terraces. At a beautiful village called
                        Anahola the ridge terminates abruptly, and its highest portion is so thin
                        that a large patch of sky can be seen through a hole which has been worn in
                        it.
                    I reached Lihue by daylight, having established my reputation as a paniola by riding forty miles in 7½ hours,
                        “very good time” for the islands. I hope to return here in August, as my
                        hospitable friends will not allow me to leave on any other condition. The
                        kindness I have received on Kauai is quite overwhelming, and I shall
                        remember its refined and virtuous homes as long as its loveliness and
                        delicious climate.
                
                
                    
                        HAWAIIAN HOTEL. HONOLULU. April 23rd.
                    
                    
                    I have nothing new to add. Mr. Dexter is so far recovered that I fear I shall
                        not find my friends here on my return. People are in the usual fever about
                        the mail, and I must close this.
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXIV.
                
                    ULUPALAKUA. MAUI. May 12th.
                
                IT is three weeks since I left the Hawaiian Hotel and its green
                    mist of algarobas, but my pleasant visits in this island do not furnish much
                    that will interest you. There was great excitement on the wharf at Honolulu the
                    evening I left. It was crowded with natives, the king's band was playing, old
                    hags were chanting melés, and several of the
                    royal family, and of the “upper ten thousand” were there, taking leave of the
                    Governess of Hawaii, the Princess Keelikolani, the late king's half-sister. The
                    throng and excitement were so great, that we were outside the reef before I got
                    a good view of this lady, the largest and the richest woman on the islands. Her
                    size and appearance are most unfortunate, but she is said to be good and kind.
                    She was dressed in a very common black holuku,
                    with a red bandana round her throat, round which she wore a lé of immense oleanders, as well as round her hair,
                    which was cut short. She had a large retinue, and her female attendants all wore
                        leis of oleander. They spread very fine
                    mats on the deck, under pulu beds, covered
                    with gorgeous quilts, on which the Princess and her suite slept, and in the
                    morning the beds were removed, breakfast was spread on the mats, and she, some
                    of her attendants, and two or three white men who 
                        re-
                        received
                     ceived invitations, sat on the deck
                    round it. It was a far less attractive meal than that which the serene steward
                    served below. The calabashes, which contained the pale pink poi, were of highly polished kou wood, but there were no foreign refinements.
                    The other dishes were several kinds of raw fish, dried devil-fish, boiled
                        kalo, sweet potatoes, bananas, and
                    cocoa-nut milk.
                I had a very uncomfortable night on a mattress on the deck, which was overcrowded
                    with natives, and some of the native women and two foreigners had got a whiskey
                    bottle, and behaved disgracefully. We went round by the Leper Island.
                I landed at Maaleia, on the leeward side of the sandy isthmus which unites East
                    and West Maui, got a good horse, and, with Mr. G—, rode across to the residence
                    of “Father Alexander,” at Wailuku, a flourishing district of sugar plantations.
                    Mr. and Mrs. Alexander were among the early missionaries, and still live on the
                    mission premises. Several of their sons are settled on the island in the sugar
                    business, and it was to the Heiku plantation, fifteen miles off, of which Mr. S.
                    Alexander is manager, that I went on the following day, still escorted by Mr.
                    G—. Here we heard that captains of schooners which had arrived from Hawaii,
                    report that a light is visible on the terminal crater of Mauna Loa, 14,000 feet
                    above the sea, that Kilauea, the flank crater, is unusually active, and that
                    several severe shocks of earthquake have been felt. This is exciting news.
                Behind Wailuku is the Iao valley, up which I rode with two island friends, and
                    spent a day of supreme, satisfied admiration.
                    At Iao people may throw away pen and pencil in equal despair. The trail leads
                    down a gorge dark with forest trees, and then opens out into an amphitheatre,
                    walled in by precipices, from three to six thousand feet high, misty with a
                    thousand waterfalls, plumed with kukuis, and
                    feathery with ferns. A green-clad needle of stone, one thousand feet in height,
                    the last refuge of an army routed when the Wailuku (waters of destruction) ran
                    red with blood, keeps guard over the valley. Other needles there are; and mimic
                    ruins of bastions and ramparts and towers came and passed mysteriously: and the
                    shining fronts of turrets gleamed through trailing mists, changing into drifting
                    visions of things that came and went, in sunshine and shadow, mountains raising
                    battered peaks into a cloudless sky, green crags moist with ferns, and mists of
                    water that could not fall, but frittered themselves away on slopes of
                    maiden-hair, and depths of forest and ferns through which bright streams warble
                    through the summer years. Clouds boiling up from below drifted at times across
                    the mountain fronts, or lay like snow masses in the unsunned chasms: and over
                    the grey crags and piled up pinnacles, and glorified green of the marvellous
                    vision, lay a veil of thin blue haze, steeping the whole in a serenity which
                    seemed hardly to belong to earth.
                The track from Wailuku to Heiku is over a Sahara in miniature, a dreary expanse
                    of sand and shifting sandhills, with a dismal growth in some places of thornless
                    thistles and indigo, and a tremendous surf thunders on the margin. Trackless,
                    glaring, choking, a guide is 
                        ab-
                        absolutely
                     solutely necessary to a stranger,
                    for the footprints or wheel-marks of one moment are obliterated the next. I
                    crossed the isthmus three times, and the third time was quite as incapable of
                    shaping my course across it as the first, and though I had recklessly declined a
                    guide, was only too thankful for the one who was forced upon me. It is a hateful
                    ride, yet anything so hideous and aggressively odious is a salutary experience
                    in a land of so much beauty. Sand, sand, sand! Sand-hills, smooth and red; sand
                    plains, rippled, white, and glaring; sand drifts shifting; sand clouds whirling;
                    sand in your eyes, nose, and mouth; sand stinging your face like pin points;
                    sand hiding even your horse's ears; sand rippling like waves, hissing like
                    spin-drift, malignant, venomous! You can only open one eye at a time for a wink
                    at where you are going. Looking down upon it from Heiku, you can see nothing all
                    day but the dense brown clouds of a perpetual sand-storm.
                My charming hostess and her husband made Heiku so fascinating, that I only
                    quitted it hoping to return. The object which usually attracts strangers to Maui
                    is the great dead volcano of Haleakala, “The house of the sun,” and I was
                    fortunate in all the circumstances of my ascent. My host at Heiku provided me
                    with a horse and native attendant, and I rode over the evening before to the
                    house of his brother, Mr. J. Alexander, who accompanied me, and his intelligent
                    and cultured society was one of the pleasures of the day.
                People usually go up in the afternoon, camp near the summit, light a fire, are
                    devoured by fleas, roast and freeze
                    alternately till morning, and get up to see the grand spectacle of the sunrise,
                    but I think our plan preferable, of leaving at two in the morning. The moon had
                    set. It was densely dark, and it was raining on one side of the road, though
                    quite fine on the other. By the lamplight which streamed from our early
                    breakfast table, I only saw wet mules and horses, laden with gear for a mountain
                    ascent, a trim little Japanese, who darted about helping, my native, who was
                    picturesquely dressed in a Mexican poncho, Mr. Alexander, who wore something
                    which made him unrecognisable; and myself, a tatterdemalion figure, wearing a
                    much-worn green topcoat of his over my riding suit, and a tartan shawl arranged
                    so as to fall nearly to my feet. Then we went forth into the darkness. The road
                    soon degenerated into a wood road, then into a bridle track, then into a mere
                    trail ascending all the way; and at dawn, when the rain was over, we found
                    ourselves more than half-way up the mountain, amidst rocks, scoriæ, tussocks,
                        ohelos, a few common compositæ, and a few
                    coarse ferns and woody plants, which became coarser and scantier the higher we
                    went up, but never wholly ceased; for, at the very summit, 10,200 feet high,
                    there are some tufts of grass, and stunted specimens of a common asplenium in
                    clefts. Many people suffer from mountain sickness on this ascent, but I suffered
                    from nothing but the excruciating cold, which benumbed my limbs and penetrated
                    to my bones; and though I dismounted several times and tried to walk, uphill
                    exercise was impossible in the rarefied air. The atmosphere was but one degree
                    below the
                     freezing-point, but at that height, a brisk
                    breeze on soaked clothes was scarcely bearable.
                The sunrise turned the densely packed clouds below into great rosy masses, which
                    broke now and then, showing a vivid blue sea, and patches of velvety green. At
                    seven, after toiling over a last steep bit, among scoriæ, and some very scanty
                    and unlovely vegetation, we reached what was said to be the summit, where a
                    ragged wall of rock shut out the forward view. Dismounting on some cinders, we
                    stepped into a gap, and from thence looked down into the most gigantic crater on
                    the earth. I confess that with the living fires of Kilauea in my memory, I was
                    at first disappointed with the deadness of a volcano of whose activity there are
                    no traditions extant. Though during the hours which followed, its majesty and
                    wonderment grew upon me, yet a careful study of the admirable map of the crater,
                    a comparison of the heights of the very considerable cones which are buried
                    within it, and the attempt to realize the figures which represent its
                    circumference, area, and depth, not only give a far better idea of it than any
                    verbal description, but impress its ingular sublimity and magnitude upon one far
                    more forcibly than a single visit to the actual crater.
                I mentioned in one of my first letters that East Maui, that part of the island
                    which lies east of the isthmus of perpetual dust-storms, consists of a mountain
                    dome 10,000 feet in height, with a monstrous base. Its slopes are very regular,
                    varying from eight to ten degrees. Its lava-beds differ from those of Kauai and
                    Oahu in being lighter in colour, less cellular, and more impervious to water. The windward side of the mountain is
                    gashed and slashed by streams, which in their violence have excavated large
                    pot-holes, which serve as reservoirs, and it is covered to a height of over 2000
                    feet by a luxuriant growth of timber. On the leeward side, several black and
                    very fresh-looking streams of lava run into the sea, and the whole coast for
                    some height above the shore shows most vigorous volcanic action. Elsewhere the
                    rock is red and broken, and lateral cones abound near the base.
                The ascent from Makawao, though it is over rather a desolate tract of land, has
                    in its lower stages such a dismal growth of pining koa and spurious sandal-wood, and in its upper ones so much
                        ohelo scrub, with grass and common
                    aspleniums quite up to the top, that as one sits lazily on one's sure-footed
                    horse, the fact that one is ascending a huge volcano is not forced upon one by
                    any overmastering sterility and nakedness. Somehow, one expects to pass through
                    some ulterior stage of blackness up to the summit. It is no such thing; and the
                    great surprise of Haleakala to me was, that when according to calculation there
                    should have been a summit, an abyss of vast dimensions opened below. The
                    mountain top has been in fact blown off, and one is totally powerless to imagine
                    what the forces must have been which rent it asunder.
                The crater was clear of fog and clouds, and lighted in every part by the risen
                    sun. The whole, with its contents, can be seen at a single glance, though its
                    girdling precipices are nineteen miles in extent. Its huge, irregular floor is 2000 feet below; New York might be
                    hidden away within it, with abundant room to spare; and more than one of the
                    numerous subsidiary cones which uplift themselves solitary or in clusters
                    through the area, attain the height of Arthur's Seat at Edinburgh. On the north
                    and east are the Koolau and Kaupo Gaps, as deep as the crater, through which
                    oceans of lava found their way to the sea. It looks as if the volcanic forces,
                    content with rending the mountain top in twain, had then passed into an endless
                    repose.
                The crater appears to be composed of a hard grey clinkstone, much fissured; but
                    lower down the mountain, the rock is softer, and has a bluish tinge. The
                    internal cones are of very regular shape, and most of them look as if their
                    fires had only just gone out, with their sides fiercely red, and their central
                    cavities lined with layers of black ash. They are all composed of cinders of
                    light specific gravity, and much of the ash is tinged with the hydrated oxide of
                    iron. Very few of the usual volcanic products are present.* Small quantities of sulphur, in a very
                    impure form, exist here and there, but there are no sulphur or steam-cracks, or
                    hot springs on any part of the mountain. With its cold ashes and dead force, it
                    is a most tremendous spectacle of the power of fire.
                Some previous travellers had generously left some faggots on the summit, and we
                    made a large fire for According to Mr. Brigham, the products of the Hawaiian
                        volcanoes are: native sulphur, pyrites, salt, sal animoniac, hydrochloric
                        acid, hæmatite, sulphurous acid, sulphuric acid, quartz, crystals,
                        palagonite, feldspar, chrysolite, Thompsonite, gypsum, solfatarite,
                        copperas, nitre, arragonite, Labradorite, limonite. warmth, and I rolled my blanket round me, and sat
                    with my feet among the hot embers, but all to no purpose. The wind was strong
                    and keen, and the fierce splendour of the tropic sun conveyed no heat. Mr. A.
                    went away investigating, the native rolled himself in his poncho and fell asleep
                    by the fire, and I divided the time between glimpses into the awful desolation
                    of the crater, snatched between the icy gusts of wind, and the enjoyment of the
                    wonderful cloud scenery which to everybody is a great charm of the view from
                    Haleakala. The day was perfect; for first we had an inimitable view of the
                    crater and all that could be seen from the mountain-top, and then an equally
                    inimitable view of Cloudland. There was the gaunt, hideous, desolate abyss, with
                    its fiery cones, its rivers and surges of black lava and grey ash, crossing and
                    mingling all over the area, mixed with splotches of colour and coils of satin
                    rock, its walls dark and frowning, everywhere riven and splintered, and clouds
                    perpetually drifting in through the great gaps, and filling up the whole crater
                    with white swirling masses, which in a few minutes melted away in the sunshine,
                    leaving it all as sharply definite as before. Before noon clouds surrounded the
                    whole mountain, not in the vague flocculent, meaningless masses one usually
                    sees, but in Arctic oceans, where lofty icebergs, floes and pack, lay piled on
                    each other, glistening with the frost of a Polar winter; then alps on alps, and
                    peaks of well remembered ranges gleaming above glaciers, and the semblance of
                    forests in deep ravines loaded with new fallen snow. Snow-drifts, avalanches,
                    oceans held in bondage of eternal ice, and all
                    this massed totether, shifting, breaking, glistering, filling up the broad
                    channel which divides Maui from Hawaii, and far away above the lonely masses,
                    rose, in turquoise blue, like distant islands, the lofty Hawaiian domes of Mauna
                    Kea and Mauna Loa, with snow on Mauna Kea yet more dazzling than the clouds.
                    There never was a stranger contrast than between the hideous desolation of the
                    crater below, and those blue and jewelled summits rising above the shifting
                    clouds.
                After some time the scene shifted, and through glacial rifts appeared as in a
                    dream the Eeka mountains which enfold the Iao valley, broad fields of cane 8000
                    feet below, the flushed palm-fringed coast, and the deep blue sea sleeping in
                    perpetual calm. But according to the well-known fraud which isolated altitudes
                    perpetrate upon the eye, it appeared as if we were looking up at
                    our landscape, not down; and no effort of the eye or imagination would put
                    things at their proper levels.
                But gradually the clouds massed themselves, the familiar earth disappeared, and
                    we were “pinnacled in mid-heaven” in unutterable isolation, blank forgotten
                    units, in a white, wonderful, illuminated world, without periranence or
                    solidity. Our voices sounded thin in the upper air. The keen, incisive wind that
                    swept the summit, had no kinship with the soft breezes which were rustling the
                    tasselled cane in the green fields of earth which had lately gleamed through the
                    drift. It was a new world and without sympathy, a solitude which could be felt.
                    Was it nearer God, I wonder, because so far from man and his little works and
                    ways? At least they seemed little there, in
                    presence of the tokens of a catastrophe which had not only blown off a mountain
                    top, and scattered it over the island, but had disembowelled the mountain itself
                    to a depth of 2000 feet.
                Soon after noon we began to descend; and in a hollow of the mountain, not far
                    from the ragged edge of the crater, then filled up with billows of cloud, we
                    came upon what we were searching for; not, however, one or two, but thousands of
                    silverswords, their cold, frosted silver gleam making the hill-side look like
                    winter or moonlight. They can be preserved in their beauty by putting them under
                    a glass shade, but it must be of monstrous dimensiolls, as the finer plants
                    measure 2 ft. by 18 in. without the flower stalk. They exactly resemble the
                    finest work in frosted silver, the curve of their globular mass of leaves is
                    perfect, and one thinks of them rather as the base of an épergne for an imperial table, or as a prize at Ascot or
                    Goodwood, than as anything organic. A particular altitude and temperature appear
                    essential to them, and they are not found straggling above or below a given
                    line.
                We reached Makawao very tired, soon after dark, to be heartily congratulated on
                    our successful ascent, and bearing no worse traces of it than lobster-coloured
                    faces, badly blistered.
                After accepting sundry hospitalities I rode over here, skirting the mountain at a
                    height of 2000 feet, a most tedious ride, only enlivened by the blaze of
                    nasturtiums in some of the shallow gulches. It is very pretty here, and I wish
                    all invalids could revel in the sweet changeless air. The name signifies “ripe bread-fruit of the gods.” The plantation is
                    2000 feet above the sea, and is one of the finest on the islands; and owing to
                    the slow maturity of the cane at so great a height, the yield is from five to
                    six tons an acre. Water is very scarce; all that is used in the boiling-house
                    and elsewhere has been carefully led into concrete tanks for storage, and even
                    the walks in the proprietor's beautiful garden are laid with cement for the same
                    purpose. He has planted many thousand Australian eucalyptus trees on the
                    hillside in the hope of procuring a larger rainfall, so that the neighbourhood
                    has quite an exotic appearance.
                The coast is black and volcanic-looking below, jutting into the sea in naked lava
                    promontories, which nature has done nothing to drape. Concerning a river of
                    specially black lava, which runs into the sea to the south of this house, the
                    following legend is told:—
                “A withered old woman stopped to ask food and hospitality at the house of a
                    dweller on this promontory, noted for his penuriousness. His kalo patches flourished, cocoa-nuts and bananas
                    shaded his hut, nature was lavish of her wealth all round him. But the withered
                    hag was sent away unfed, and as she turned her back on the man she said, ‘I will
                    return to-morrow.’
                “This was Pélé, the goddess of the volcano, and she kept her word, and came back
                    the next day in earthquakes and thunderings, rent the mountain, and blotted out
                    every trace of the man and his dwelling with a flood of fire.”
                
                Maui is very, “foreign” and civilised, and although it has a native population of
                    over 12,000, the natives are much crowded on plantations, and one encounters
                    little of native life. There is a large society composed of planters' and
                    merchants' families, and the residents are profuse in their hospitality. It is
                    not infrequently taken undue advantage of, and I have heard of planters
                    compelled to feign excuses for leaving their houses, in order to get rid of
                    unintroduced and obnoxious visitors, who have quartered themselves on them for
                    weeks at a time. It is wonderful that their patient hospitality is not worn out,
                    even though, as they say, they sometimes “entertain angels unawares.”
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXV.
                
                    KALAIEHA. HAWAII.
                
                MY departure from Ulupalakua illustrates some of the
                    uncertainties of island travelling. On Monday night my things were packed, and
                    my trunk sent off to the landing; but at five on Tuesday, Mr. Whipple came to my
                    door to say that the Kilauea was not in Lahaina roads, and was
                    probably laid up for repairs. I was much disappointed, for the mild climate had
                    disagreed with me, and I was longing for the roystering winds and unconventional
                    life of windward Hawaii, and there was not another steamer for three weeks.
                However, some time afterwards, I was unpacking, and in the midst of a floor
                    littered with ferns, photographs, books, and clothes, when Mrs. W. rushed in to
                    say that the steamer was just reaching the landing below, and that there was
                    scarcely the barest hope of catching her. Hopeless as the case seemed, we
                    crushed most of my things promiscuously into a carpet bag, Mr. W. rode off with
                    it, a horse was imperfectly saddled for me, and I mounted him, with my bag,
                    straps, spurs, and a package of ferns in one hand, and my plaid over the saddle,
                    While Mrs. W. stuffed the rest of my possessions into a clothes bag, and the
                    Chinaman ran away frantically to catch a horse on which to ride down with
                    them.
                
                I galloped off after Mr. W., though people called to me that I could not catch
                    the boat, and that my horse would fall on the steep broken descent. My saddle
                    slipped over his neck, but he still sped down the hill with the rapid “racking”
                    movement of a Narraganset pacer. First a new veil blew away, next my plaid was
                    missing, then I passed my trunk on the ox-cart which should have been at the
                    landing; but still though the heat was fierce, and the glare from the black lava
                    blinding, I dashed heedlessly down, and in twenty minutes had ridden three miles
                    down a descent of 2,000 feet, to find the Kilauea puffing and
                    smoking with her anchor up; but I was in time, for her friendly clerk, knowing
                    that I was coming, detained the scow. You will not wonder at my desperation when
                    I tell you that half-way down, a person called to me, “Mauna Loa is in
                    action!”
                While I was slipping off the saddle and bridle, Mr. W. arrived with the
                    carpet-bag, yet more over-heated and shaking with exertion than I was, then the
                    Chinaman with a bag of oddments, next a native who had picked up my plaid and
                    ferns on the road, and another with my trunk, which he had rescued from the
                    ox-cart; so I only lost my veil and two brushes, which are irreplaceable
                    here.
                The quiet of the nine hours' trip in the Kilauea restored my
                    equanimity, and prepared me to enjoy the delicious evening which followed. The
                    silver waters of Kawaihae Bay reflected the full moon, the three great mountains
                    of Hawaii were cloudless as I had not before seen them, all the asperity of the
                    leeward shore was softened into beauty, and
                    the long shadows of bending palms were as still and perfect as the palms
                    themselves. But there was a new sight above the silver water, for the huge dome
                    of Mauna Loa, forty miles away, was burning red and fitfully. A horse and
                    servant awaited me, and we were soon clattering over the hard sand by the
                    shining sea, and up the ascent which leads to the windy table-lands of Waimea.
                    The air was like new life. At a height of 500 feet we met the first whiff of the
                    trades, the atmosphere grew cooler and cooler, the night-wind fresher, the
                    moonlight whiter; wider the sweeping uplands, redder the light of the burning
                    mountain, till I wrapped my plaid about me, but still was chilled to the bone,
                    and when the four hours' ride was over, soon after midnight, my limbs were stiff
                    with tropical cold. And this, within 20° of the equator, and only 2,500 feet
                    above the fiery sea-shore, with its temperature of 80°, where Sydney Smith would
                    certainly have desired to “take off his flesh, and sit in his bones!”
                I delight in Hawaii more than ever, with its unconventional life, great upland
                    sweeps, unexplored forests, riotous breezes, and general atmosphere of freedom,
                    airiness, and expansion. As I find that a lad can travel alone with perfect
                    safety, I have many projects in view, but whatever I do or plan to do, I find my
                    eyes always turing to the light on the top of Mauna Loa. I know that the ascent
                    is not feasible for me, and that so far as I was concerned the mystery must
                    remain unsolved; but that glory, nearly 14,000 feet aloft, rising, falling, “a
                    pillar cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night,” uplifted in its awful loneliness above all human interests, has
                    an intolerable fascination. As the twilight deepens, the light intensifies, and
                    often as I watch it in the night, it seems to flare up and take the form of a
                    fiery palm-tree. No one has ascended the mountain since the activity began a
                    month ago; but the fire is believed to be in “the old traditional crater of
                    Mokuaweoweo, in a region rarely visited by man.”
                A few days ago I was so fortunate as to make the acquaintance of Mr. W.L. Green
                    (now Minister of The Interior), an English resident in Honolulu, a gentleman of
                    wide scientific and literary culture, one of whose objects in visiting Hawaii is
                    the investigation of certain volcanic phenomena. He asked me to make the ascent
                    of Mauna Kea with him, and we have satisfactorily accomplished it to-day.
                The interior of the island, in which we have spent the last two days, is totally
                    different, not only from the luxuriant windward slopes, but from the fiery
                    leeward margin. The altitude of the central plateau is from 5,000 to 6,000 feet,
                    there is not a single native dwelling on it, or even a trail across it, it is
                    totally destitute of water, and sustains only a miserable scrub of mamané, stunted ohias,
                        pukeawe, ohelos, a few compositæ, and some of the hardiest ferns.
                    The transient residents of this sheep station, and those of another on Hualalai,
                    thirty miles off, are the only human inhabitants of a region as large as Kent.
                    Wild goats, wild geese (Bernicla sandvicensis), and the Melithreptes Pacifica,
                    constitute its chief population. These geese are web-footed, though water does not exist. They build their nests
                    in the grass, and lay two or three white eggs.
                Our track from Waimea lay for the first few miles over light soil, destitute of
                    any vegetation, across dry glaring rocky beds of streams, and round the bases of
                    numerous tufa cones, from 200 to 1500 feet in height, with steep smooth sides,
                    composed of a very red ash. We crossed a flank of Mauna Kea at a height of 6000
                    feet, and a short descent brought us out upon this vast tableland, which lies
                    between the bulbous domes of Mauna Kea, Mauna Loa, and Hualalai, the loneliest,
                    saddest, dreariest expanse I ever saw.
                The air was clear and the sun bright, yet nothing softened into beauty this
                    formless desert of volcanic sand, stones, and lava, on which tufts of grass and
                    a harsh scrub war with wind and drought for a loveless existence. Yet, such is
                    the effect of atmosphere, that Mauna Loa, utterly destitute of vegetation, and
                    with his sides scored and stained by the black lava-flows of ages, looked like a
                    sapphire streaked with lapis lazuli. Nearly blinded by scuds of sand, we rode
                    for hours through the volcanic wilderness; always the same rigid mamané, (Sophora Chrysophylla?) the same withered
                    grass, and the same thornless thistles, through which the strong wind swept with
                    a desolate screech.
                The trail, which dips 1000 feet, again ascends, the country becomes very wild,
                    there are ancient craters of great height densely wooded, wooded ravines, the
                    great bulk of Mauna Kea with his ragged crest towers above tumbled rocky
                    regions, which look as if nature, 
                        dis-
                        disgusted
                     gusted with her work, had broken it
                    to pieces in a passion; there are living and dead trees, a steep elevation, and
                    below, a broad river of most jagged and uneven a-a. The afternoon fog, which serves instead of rain, rolled up
                    in dense masses, through which we heard the plaintive bleating of sheep, and
                    among blasted trees and distorted rocks we came upon Kalaieha.
                I have described the “foreign residences” elsewhere. Here is one of another type,
                    in which a wealthy sheepowner's son, married to a very pretty native woman,
                    leads for some months in the year from choice, a life so rough, that most people
                    would think it a hardship to lead it from necessity. There are two apartments, a
                    loft and a “lean-to.” The hospitable owners gave me their sleeping-room, which
                    was divided from the “living-room” by a canvass partition. This last has a rude
                    stone chimney split by an earthquake, holding fire enough to roast an ox. Round
                    it the floor is paved with great rough stones. A fire of logs, fully three feet
                    high, was burning, but there was a faulty draught, and it emitted a stinging
                    smoke. I looked for something to sit upon, but there was nothing but a high
                    bench, or chopping-block, and a fixed seat in the corner of the wall. The rest
                    of the furniture consisted of a small table, some pots, a frying-pan, a tin dish
                    and plates, a dipper, and some till pannikins. Four or five rifles and
                    “shot-guns,” and a piece of raw meat, were hanging against the wall. A tin bowl
                    was brought to me for washing, which served the same purpose for every one. The
                    oil was exhiausted, so recourse was had to the
                    native expedient of a jar of beef fat with a wick in it.
                We were most hospitably received, but the native nvife, as is usually the case,
                    was too shy to eat with us or even to appear at all. Our host is a superb young
                    man, very frank and prepossessing looking, a thorough mountaineer, most expert
                    with the lasso and in hunting wild cattle. The “station” consists of a wool
                    shed, a low grass hut, a hut with one side gone, a bell-tent, and the more
                    substantial cabin in which we are lodged. Several saddled horses were tethered
                    outside, and some natives were shearing sheep, but the fog shut out whatever
                    else there might be of an outer world. Every now and then a native came in and
                    sat on the floor to warm himself, but there were no mats as in native houses. It
                    was intolerably cold. I singed my clothes by sitting in the chimney, but could
                    not warm myself. A fowl was stewed native fashion, and some rice was boiled, and
                    we had sheep's milk and some ice cold water, the drip, I think, from a
                    neighbouring cave, as running and standing water are unknown.
                There are 9000 sheep here, but they require hardly any attendance except at
                    shearing time, and dogs are not used in herding them. Indeed, labour is much
                    dispensed with, as the sheep are shorn unwashed, a great contrast to the
                    elaborate washings of the flocks of the Victorian Riverina. They come down at
                    night of their own sagacity, in close converging columns, sleep on the gravel
                    about the station, and in the early morning betake themselves to their feeding
                    grounds on the mountain.
                
                Manna Kea, and the forests which skirt his base, are the resort of thousands of
                    wild cattle, and there are many men nearly as wild, who live half savage lives
                    in the woods, gaining their living by lassoing and shooting these animals for
                    their skins. Wild black swine also abound.
                The mist as usual disappeared at night, leaving a sky wonderful with stars, which
                    burned blue and pale against the furnace glare on the top of Mauna Loa, to which
                    we are comparatively near. I woke at three from the hopeless cold, and before
                    five went out with Mr. Green to explore the adjacent lava. The atmosphere was
                    perfectly pure, and suffused with rose-colour, not a cloud-fleece hung round the
                    mountain tops, hoar-frost whitened the ground, the pure white smoke of the
                    volcano rose into the reddening sky, and the air was elixir. It has been said
                    and written that there are no steam-cracks or similar traces of volcanic action
                    on Mauna Kea, but in several fissures I noticed ferns growing belonging to an
                    altitude 4000 feet lower, and on putting my arm down, found a heat which
                    compelled me to withdraw it, and as the sun rose these cracks steamed in all
                    directions. There are caves full of ferns, lava bubbles in reality, crust over
                    crust, each from twelve to eighteen inches thick, rolls of lava cooled in coils,
                    and hideous a-a streams on which it is
                    impossible to walk two yards without the risk of breaking one's limbs or cutting
                    one's boots to pieces.
                While we breakfasted a young man in rags, without shoes or stockings, but with
                    the accent and address of a gentleman, came in, a man of good family and
                        education in England, but who had “gone to
                    the bad out here,” and had joined a gang of bullock-catchers. Why do people
                    persist in sending “ne'er-do-weels” to such regions without a definite
                    occupation? It is certain ruin.
                I will not weary you with the details of our mountain ascent. Our host provided
                    ourselves and the native servant with three strong bullock-horses, and
                    accompanied us himself. The first climb is through deep volcanic sand slashed by
                    deep clefts, showing bands of red and black ash. We saw no birds, but twice
                    started a rout of wild black hogs, and once came upon a wild bull of large size
                    with some cows and a calf, all so tired with tramping over the lava that they
                    only managed to keep just out of our way. They usually keep near the mountain
                    top in the daytime for fear of the hunters, and come down at night to feed.
                    About 11,000 were shot and lassoed last year. Mr. S— says that they don't need
                    any water but that of the dew-drenched grass, and that horses reared on the
                    mountains refuse to drink, and are scared, by the sight of pools or running
                    streams. Unlike horses I saw at Waikiki, which shut their eyes and plunged their
                    heads into water up to their ears, in search of a saltish weed which grows in
                    the lagoons.
                The actual forest, which is principally koa,
                    ceases at height of about 6000 feet, but a deplorable vegetation beginning with
                        mamané scrub, and ending with withered
                    wormwood and tufts of coarse grass, straggles up 3000 feet higher, and a scaly
                    orange lichen is found in rare patches at a height of 11,000 feet.
                
                The side of Mauna Kea towards Waimea is precipitous and inaccessible, but to our
                    powerful mountain horses the ascent from Kalaieha presented no difficulty.
                We rode on hour after hour in intense cold, till we reached a height where the
                    last stain of lichen disappeared, and the desolation was complete and
                    oppressive. This area of tufa cones, dark and grey basalt, clinkers, scoriæ,
                    fine ash, and ferruginous basalt, is something gigantic. We were three hours in
                    ascending through it, and the eye could at no time take in its limit, for the
                    mountain which from any point of view below appears as a well defined dome with
                    a ragged top, has at the summit the aspect of a ridge, or rather a number of
                    ridges, with between 20 and 30 definite peaks, varying in height from 900 to
                    1400 feet. Among these cones are large plains of clinkers and fine gravel, but
                    no lava-streams, and at a height of 12,000 feet the sides of some of the valleys
                    are filled up with snow, of a purity so immaculate and a brilliancy so intense
                    as the fierce light of the tropical sun beat upon it, that I feared
                    snow-blindness. We ascended one of the smaller cones which was about 900 feet
                    high, and found it contained a crater of nearly the same depth, with a very even
                    slope, and lined entirely with red ash, wlhich at the bottom became so bright
                    and fiery-looking that it looked as if the fires, which have not burned for
                    ages, had only died out that morning.
                After riding steadily for six hours, our horses, snorting and panting, and
                    plunging up to their knees in fine volcanic ash, and halting, trembling and
                    exhausted, every few feet, carried us up the great tufa cone which crowns the summit of this vast fire-flushed,
                    fire-created mountain, and we dismounted in deep snow on the crest of the
                    highest peak in the Pacific, 13,953 feet above the sea. This summit is a group
                    of six red tufa cones, with very little apparent difference in their altitude,
                    and with deep valleys filled with red ash between them. The terminal cone on
                    which we were has no cavity, but most of those forming the group, as well as the
                    thirty which I counted around and below us, are truncated cones with craters
                    within, and with outer slopes, whose estimated angle is about 30°. On these
                    slopes the snow lay heavily. In coming up we had had a superb view of Mauna Loa,
                    but before we reached the top, the clouds had congregated, and lay in glistening
                    masses all round the. mountain about half-way up, shutting out the smiling
                    earth, and leaving us alone with the view of the sublime desolation of the
                    volcano.
                We only remained an hour on the top, and came down by a very circuitous route,
                    which took us round numerous cones, and over miles of clinkers varying in size
                    from a ton to a few ounces, and past a lake the edges of which were frozen, and
                    which in itself is a curiosity, as no other part of the mountain “holds water.”
                    Not far off is a cave, a lava-bubble, in which the natives used to live when
                    they came up here to quarry a very hard adjacent phonolite for their axes and
                    other tools. While the others poked about, I was glad to make it a refuge from
                    the piercing wind. Hundreds of unfinished axes lie round the cave entrance, and
                    there is quite a large mound of unfinished chips.
                
                This is a very interesting spot to Hawaiian antiquaries. They argue, from the
                    amount of the chippings, that this mass of phonolite was quarried for ages by
                    countless generations of men, and that the mountain top must have been upheaved,
                    and the island inhabited, in a very remote past. The stones have not been worked
                    since Captain Cook's day; yet there is not a weather-stain upon them, and the
                    air is so dry and rarified that meat will,keep fresh for three months. I found a
                    mass of crystals of the greenish volcanic glass, called olivine, imbedded in a
                    piece of phonolite which looked as blue and fresh as if only quarried
                    yesterday.
                We travelled for miles through ashes and scoriæ, and then descended into a dense
                    afternoon fog; but Mr. S. is a practised mountaineer, and never faltered for a
                    moment, and our horses made such good speed that late in the afternoon we were
                    able to warm ourselves by a gallop, which brought us in here ravenous for supper
                    before dark, having ridden for thirteen hours. I hope I have made it clear that
                    the top of this dead volcano, whether cones or ravines, is deep soft ashes and
                    sand.
                To-morrow morning I intend to ride the thirty miles to Waimea with two native
                    women, and the next day to go off on my adventurous expedition to Hilo, for
                    which I have bought for $45 a big, strong, heavy horse, which I have named
                    Kahélé. He has the poking head and unmistakable gait of a bullock horse, but is
                    said to be “a good traveller.”
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXVI.
                
                    
                        “MY CAMP,” HAWAIIAN SLOPES. May 21.
                    
                    THIS is the height of enjoyment in travelling. I have just
                        encamped under a lauhala tree, with my
                        saddle inverted for a pillow, my horse tied by a long lariat to a guava
                        bush, my gear, saddle-bags, and rations for two days lying about, and my
                        saddle blanket drying in the sun. Overhead the sun blazes, and casts no
                        shadow; a few fleecy clouds hover near him, and far below, the great expanse
                        of the Pacific gleams in a deeper blue than the sky. Far above, towers the
                        rugged and snow-patched, but no longer mysterious dome of Mauna Loa; while
                        everywhere, ravines, woods, waterfalls, and stretches of lawnlike grass
                        delight the eye. All green that I have ever seen, of English lawns in June,
                        or Alpine valleys, seems poor and colourless as compared with the dazzling
                        green of this sixty-five miles. It is a joyous green, a glory. Whenever I
                        look up from my writing, I ask, Was there ever such green? Was there ever
                        such sunshine? Was there ever such an atmosphere? Was there ever such an
                        adventure? And Nature—for I have no other companion, and wish for
                        none—answers, “No.” The novelty is that I am alone, my conveyance my own
                        horse; no luggage to look after, for it is all in my saddle-bags; no guide
                        to bother, hurry, or hinder me; and with 
                            know-
                            knowledge
                         ledge enough of the country to
                        stop when and where I please. A native guide, besides being a considerable
                        expense, is a great nuisance; and as the trail is easy to find, and the
                        rivers are low, I resolved for once to taste the delights of perfect
                        independence! This is a blessed country, for a lady can travel everywhere in
                        absolute security.
                    My goal is the volcano of Kilauea, with various diverging expeditions,
                        involving a ride of about 350 miles; but my health has so wonderfully
                        improved, that it is easier to me now to ride forty miles in a day than ten
                        some months ago.
                    You have no idea of the preparations required for such a ride, and the
                        importance which “littles” assume. Food for two days had to be taken, and
                        all superfluous weight to be discarded, as every pound tells on a horse on a
                        hard journey. My saddle-bags contain, besides “Sunday clothes,” dress for
                        any “gaieties” which Hilo may offer; but I circumscribed my stock of clothes
                        as much as possible, having fallen into the rough-and-ready practice of
                        washing them at night, and putting them on unironed in the morning. I carry
                        besides, a canvas bag on the horn of my saddle, containing two days'
                        provender, and a knife, horse-shoe nails, glycerine, thread, twine, leather
                        thongs, with other little et ceteras, the lack of which might prove
                        troublesome, a thermometer and aneroid in a leather case, and a plaid. I
                        have discarded, owing to their weight, all the well-meant luxuries which
                        were bestowed upon me, such as drinking cups, flasks, etnas, sandwich cases,
                        knife cases, spoons, pocket mirrors, &c. The inside of a watchcase makes a sufficient
                        mirror, and I make a cup from a kalo leaf.
                        All cases are a mistake,—at least I think so, as I contemplate my light
                        equipment with complacency.
                    Yesterday's dawn was the reddest I have seen on the mountains, and the day
                        was all the dawn promised. A three-mile gallop down the dewy grass, and
                        slackened speed through the bush, brought me once again to the breezy slopes
                        of Hamakua, and the trail I travelled in February, with Deborah and Kaluna.
                        Though as green then as now, it was the rainy season, a carnival of rain and
                        mud. Somehow the summer does make a difference, even in a land without a
                        winter. The temperature was perfect. It was dreamily lovely. No song of
                        birds, or busy hum of insects, accompanied the rustle of the lauhala leaves and the low murmur of the surf.
                        But there is no hot sleep of noon here—the delicious trades keep the air
                        always wakeful.
                    When the gentleman who guided me through the bush left me on the side of a
                            pali, I discovered that Kahélé, though
                        strong, gentle, and sure-footed, possesses the odious fault known as
                        balking, and expressed his aversion to ascend the other side in a most
                        unmistakable manner. He swung round, put his head down, and no amount of
                        spurring could get him to do anything but turn round and round, till the
                        gentleman, who had left me, returned, beat him with a stick, and threw
                        stones at him, till he got him started again.
                    I have tried coaxing him, but without result, and have had prolonged fights
                        with him in nearly every gulch, and on the
                        worst pali of all he refused for some time
                        to breast a step, scrambled round and round in a most dangerous place, and
                        slipped his hind legs quite over the edge before I could get him on.
                    His sociability too is ridiculously annoying. Whenever he sees natives in the
                        distance, he neighs, points his ears, holds up his heavy head, quickens his
                        pace, and as soon as we meet them, swings round and joins them, and can only
                        be extricated after a pitched battle. On a narrow bridge I met Kaluna on a
                        good horse, improved in manners, appearance, and English, and at first he
                        must have thought that I was singularly pleased to see him, by my turning
                        round and joining him at once; but presently, seeing the true state of the
                        case, he belaboured Kahélé with a heavy stick. The animal is very gentle and
                        companionable, and I dislike to spur him; besides, he seems insensible to
                        it; so the last time I tried Rarey's plan, and bringing his head quite
                        round, twisted the bridle round the horn of the saddle, so that he had to
                        turn round and round for my pleasure, rather than to indulge his own temper,
                        a process which will, I hope, conquer him mercifully.
                    But in consequence of these battles, and a halt which I made, as now, for no
                        other purpose than to enjoy my felicitous circumstances, the sun was sinking
                        in a mist of gold behind Mauna Loa long before I reached the end of my day's
                        journey. It was extremely lovely. A heavy dew was falling, odours of Eden
                        rose from the earth, colours glowed in the sky, and the dewiest and richest
                        green Was all round. It was eerie, but delightful. There were several gulches to cross after the sun had set,
                        and a silence, which was almost audible, reigned in their leafy solitudes.
                        It was quite dark when I reached the trail which dips over the great
                            pali of Laupahoehoe, 700 feet in
                        height; but I found myself riding carelessly down what I hardly dared to go
                        up, carefully and in company, four months before. But whatever improvement
                        time has made in my health and nerves, it has made none in this wretched
                        zoophyte village.
                    Leading Kahélé, I groped about till I found the house of the widow Honolulu,
                        with whom I had lodged before, and presently all the natives assembled to
                        stare at me. After rubbing my horse and feeding him on a large bundle of
                            ti leaves that I had secured on the
                        road, I took my own meal as a spectacle. Two old crones seized on my ankles,
                        murmuring lomi, lomi, and subjected them
                        to the native process of shampooing. They had unrestrained curiosity as to
                        the beginning and end of my journey. I said “Waimea,
                            Hamakua,” when they all chorused, “Maikai;” for a ride of forty miles was not bad for a wahine haole. I said, “Wai, lio,” (water for the horse), when they signified that
                        there was only some brackish stuff unfit for drinking.
                    In spite of the garrulous assemblage, I was asleep before eight, and never
                        woke till I found myself in a blaze of sunshine this morning, and in perfect
                        solitude. I got myself some breakfast, and then looked about the village for
                        some inhabitants, but found none, except an unhappy Portuguese with one leg,
                        anrd an old man who looked like a leper, to whom I said, “Ko” (cane) “lio” (horse), exhibiting a
                        rial at the same time, on which he cut me a large bundle, and I sat on a
                        stone and watched Kahélé as he munched it for an hour and a half.
                    It was very hot and serene down there between those palis 700 and 800 feet high. The huts of the village were all
                        shut, and not a creature stirred. The palms above my head looked as if they
                        had always been old, and there was no movement among their golden plumes.
                        The sea itself rolled shorewards more silently and lazily than usual. An old
                        dog slept in the sunshine, and whenever I moved, by a great effort, opened
                        one eye. The man who cut the cane fell asleep on the grass. Kahélé ate as
                        slowly as if he had resolved to try my patience, and be revenged on me for
                        my conquest of him yesterday, and his heavy munching was the only vital
                        sound. I got up and walked about to assure myself that I was awake, saddled
                        and bridled the horse, and mounted the great southward pali, thankful to reach the breeze and the
                        upper air in full possession of my faculties, after the torpor and paralysis
                        of the valley below.
                    Never were waters so bright or stretches of upland lawns so joyous as to-day,
                        or the forest entanglements so entrancing. The beautiful Eugenia malaccensis is now in full blossom, and
                        its stems and branches are blazing in all the gulches, with bunches of
                        rose-crimson stamens borne on short spikelets.
                
                
                    
                        HILO. HAWAII, May 24th.
                    
                    Once more I am in dear beautiful Hilo. Death entered my Hawaiian “home”
                        lately, and took “Baby Bell” away, and I
                        miss her sweet angel-presence at every turn; but otherwise there are no
                        changes, and I am very happy to be under the roof of these dear friends
                        again, and indeed each tree, flower, and fern in Hilo is a friend. I would
                        not even wish the straggling Pride of India, and over-abundant lantana, away
                        from this fairest of the island Edens. I wish I could transport you here
                        this moment from our sour easterly skies to this endless summer and endless
                        sunshine, and shimmer of a peaceful sea, and an atmosphere whose influences
                        are all cheering. Though from 13 to 16 feet of rain fall here in the year
                        the air is not damp. Wet clothes hung up in the verandah even during rain,
                        dry rapidly, and a substance so sensitive to damp as botanical paper does
                        not mildew.
                    I met Deborah on horseback near Onomea, and she told me that the Austins were
                        expecting me, and so I spent three days very pleasantly with them on my way
                        here.
                    
                        I.L.B.
                    
                
                
                    That old Kilauea has just come in, and has brought the English
                        mail, and a United States mail, an event which sets Hilo agog. Then for a
                        few hours its still, drowsy life becomes galvanized, and people really
                        persuade themselves that they have something to do, and all the foreigners
                        write letters hastily, or add postscripts to those already written, and lose
                        the mail, and rush down frantically to the beach to send their late letters
                        by favour of the obliging purser. The mail to-day was an event to me, as it
                        has brought your long-looked-for letters.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXVII.
                
                    
                        HILO. June 1.
                    
                    MR. and Mrs. Severance and I have just retured from a
                        three-days' expedition to Puna in the south of Hawaii, and I preferred their
                        agreeable company even to solitude! My sociable Kahélé was also pleased, and
                        consequently behaved very well. We were compelled to ride for twenty-three
                        miles in single file, owing to the extreme narrowness of the lava track,
                        which has been literally hammered down in some places to make it passable
                        even for shod horses. We were a party of four, and a very fat policeman on a
                        very fat horse brought up the rear.
                    At some distance from Hilo there is a glorious burst of tropical forest, and
                        then the track passes into green grass dotted over with clumps of the
                        pandanus and the beautiful eugenia. In that hot dry district the fruit was
                        already ripe, and we quenched our thirst with it. The “native apple,” as it
                        is called, is of such a brilliant crimson colour as to be hardly less
                        beautiful than the flowers. The rind is very thin, and the inside is white,
                        juicy, and very slightly acidulated. We were always near the sea, and the
                        surf kept bursting up behind the trees in great snowy drifts, and every
                        opening gave us a glimpse of deep blue water. The coast the whole way is
                        composed of great blocks of very hard black lava, more or less elevated,
                        upon which the surges break in perpetual thunder.
                    
                    Suddenly the verdure ceased, and we emerged upon a hideous scene, one of the
                        many lava flows from Kilauea, an irregular branching stream, about a mile
                        broad. It is suggestive of fearful work on the part of nature, for here the
                        volcano has not created but destroyed. The black tumbled sea mocked the
                        bright sunshine, all tossed, jagged, spiked, twirled, thrown heap on heap,
                        broken, rifted, upheaved in great masses, burrowing in ravines of its own
                        making, full of broken bubble caves, and torn by a-a streams. Close to the track crystals of olivine lie in
                        great profusion, and in a few of the crevices there are young plants of a
                        fern which everywhere has the audacity to act as the herald of
                        vegetation.
                    Beyond this desert the country is different in its features from the rest of
                        the island, a green smiling land of Beulah, varied by lines of craters
                        covered within and without with vegetation. For thirty miles the track
                        passes under the deep shade of coco palms, of which Puna is the true home;
                        and from under their feathery shadow, and from amidst the dark leafage of
                        the breadfruit, gleamed the rose-crimson apples of the eugenia, and the
                        golden balls of the guava. I have not before seen this exquisite palm to
                        advantage, for those which fringe the coast have, as compared with these, a
                        look of tattered, sombre, harassed antiquity. Here they stood in thousands,
                        young as well as old, their fronds gigantic, their stems curving every way,
                        and the golden light, which is peculiar to them, toned into a golden green.
                        They were loaded with fruit in all stages, indeed it is produced in such
                        abundance that thousands of nuts he unheeded on the ground. Animals, including dogs and cats,
                        revel in the meat, and in the scarcity of good water the milk is a useful
                        substitute.
                    Late in the afternoon we reached our destination, a comfortable frame house,
                        on one of those fine natural lawns in which Hawaii abounds. A shower at
                        seven each morning keeps Puna always green. Our kind host, a German, married
                        to a native woman, served our meals in a house made of grass and bamboo; but
                        the wife and children, as is usual in these cases, never appeared at table,
                        and contented themselves with contemplating us at a great distance.
                    The next afternoon we rode to one of the natural curiosities of Puna, which
                        gave me intense pleasure. It lies at the base of a cone crowned with a
                            heiau and a clump of coco palms.
                        Passing among bread-fruit and guavas into a palm grove of exquisite beauty,
                        we came suddenly upon a lofty wooded cliff of hard basaltic rock, with ferns
                        growing out of every crevice in its ragged but perpendicular sides. At its
                        feet is a cleft about 60 feet long, 16 wide, and 18 deep, full of water at a
                        temperature of 90°. This has an absolute transparency of a singular kind,
                        and perpetrates wonderful optical illusions. Every thing put into it is
                        transformed. The rocks, broken timber, and old cocoa nuts which lie below
                        it, are a frosted blue; the dusky skins of natives are changed to alabaster;
                        and as my companion, in a light print holuku, swam to and fro, her feet and hands became like
                        polished marble tinged with blue, and her dress floated through the water as
                        if woven of blue light. Everything about
                        this spring is far more striking and beautiful than the colour in the blue
                        grotto of Capri. It is heaven in the water, a jewelled floor of marvels, “a
                        sea of glass,” “like unto sapphire,” a type, perhaps, of that on which the
                        blessed stand before the throne of God. Above, the feathery palms rose into
                        the crystalline blue, and made an amber light below, and all fair and lovely
                        things were mirrored in the wonderful waters. The specific gravity must be
                        much greater than that of ordinary water, for it did not seem possible to
                        sink, or even be thoroughly immersed in it. The mercury in the air was 79°,
                        but on coming out of the water we felt quite chilly.
                    I like Puna. It is like nothing else, but something about it made us feel as
                        if we were dwelling in a castle of indolence. I developed a capacity for
                        doing nothing, which horrified me, and except when we energised ourselves to
                        go to the hot spring, my companions and I were content to dream in the
                        verandah, and watch the lengthening shadows, and drink cocoa-nut milk, till
                        the abrupt exit of the sun startled us, and we saw the young moon carrying
                        the old one tenderly, and a fitful glare 60 miles away, where the solemn
                        fires of Manna Loa are burning at a height of nearly 14,000 feet.
                
                
                    
                        HILO.
                    
                    There are many “littles,” but few “mickles” here. It is among the last that
                        two foreign gentlemen have successfully accomplished the ascent of Mauna
                        Loa, and the mystery of its fires is solved. I write “successfully,” as they
                        went up and down in safety, but they were involved in a series of pilikias: girths, stirrup-leathers, and cruppers slipping and
                        breaking, and their sufferings on the summit from cold and mountain sickness
                        appear to have been nearly incapacitating. Although much excited, they are
                        collected enough to pronounce it “the most sublime sight ever seen.” They,
                        as well as several natives who have passed by Kilauea, report it as in full
                        activity which bears against the assertion that the flank crater becomes
                        quiet when the summit crater is active.
                    Another and sadder “mickle” has been the departure of ten lepers for Molokai.
                        The Kilauea, with the Marshal, and Mr. Wilder who embodies the
                        Board of Health, has just left the bay, taking away forty lepers on this
                        cruise; and the relations of those who have been taken from Hilo are still
                        howling on the beach. When one hears the wailing, and sees the temporary
                        agony of the separated relatives, one longs for “the days of the Son of
                        Man,” and that his healing touch, as of old in Galilee, might cleanse these
                        unfortunates. Nine of the lepers were sent on board from the temporary
                        pest-house, but their case, though deeply commiserated, has been
                        overshadowed by that of the talented half-white, “Bill Ragsdale,” whom I
                        mentioned in one of my earlier letters, and who is certainly the most
                        “notorious” man in Hilo. He has a remarkable gift of eloquence, both in
                        English and Hawaiian: a combination of pathos, invective, and salcasm; and
                        his manner, though theatrical, is considered perfect by his native admirers.
                        His moral character, however, has been very low, which makes the outburst of
                        feeling at his fate the more remarkable.
                    
                    Yesterday, he wrote a letter to Sheriff Severance, giving himself up as a
                        leper to be dealt with by the law, expressing himself as ready to be
                        expatriated to-day, but requesting that he might not be put into the
                        leper-house, and that he might go on board the steamer alone. The fact of
                        his giving himself up excited much sympathy, as, in his case, the signs of
                        the malady are hardly apparent, and he might have escaped suspicion for some
                        time.
                    He was riding about all this morning, taking leave of people, and of the
                        pleasant Hilo lanes, which he will never see again, and just as the steamer
                        was weighing anchor, walked down to the shore as carefully dressed as usual,
                        decorated with leis of ohia and gardenia, and escorted by nearly the
                        whole native population. On my first landing here, the glee club, singing
                        and flower-clad, went out to meet him;—now tears and sobs accompanied him,
                        and his countrymen and women clung to him, kissing him, to the last moment,
                        whilst all the foreigners shook hands as they offered him their good wishes.
                        He made a short speech in native, urging quiet submission to the stringent
                        measures which government is taking in order to stamp out leprosy, and then
                        said a few words in English. His last words, as he stepped into the boat,
                        were to all: “Aloha, may God bless you, my
                        brothers,” and then the whale boat took him the first stage towards his
                        living grave. He took a horse, a Bible, and some legal books with him; and,
                        doubtless, in consideration of the promillent positions he has filled,
                        specially that of interpreter to the Legislature, unusual indulgence will be
                        granted to him.
                    
                    At the weekly prayer meeting held this evening in the foreign church, the
                        medical officer gave a very pathetic account of his interview with him this
                        morning, in which he had feelingly requested the prayers of the church. It
                        was with unusual fervour afterwards that prayer was offered, not for him
                        only, but for “all those who, living, have this day been consigned to the
                        oblivion of the grave, and for the five hundred of our fellow-subjects now
                        suffering on Molokai.” A noble instance of devotion has just been given by
                        Father Damiens, a Belgian priest, who has gone to spend his life amidst the
                        hideous scenes, and the sickness and death of the ghastly valley of
                        Kalawao.
                    
                        I.L.B.
                    
                
                
                    A CHAPTER ON THE LEPER SETTLEMENT ON MOLKAI.
                    IN 1865, the Hawaiian Legislature, recognizing the
                        disastrous fact that leprosy is at once contagious and incurable, passed an
                        act to prevent its spread, and eventually the Board of Health established a
                        leper settlement on the island of Molokai for the isolation of lepers. In
                        carrying out the painful task of weeding out and exiling the sufferers, the
                        officials employed met with unusual difficulties; and the general foreign
                        community was not itself aware of the importance of making an attempt to
                        “stamp out” the disease, until the beginning of Lunalilo's reign, when the
                        apparently rapid spread of leprosy, and sundry rumours that others than
                        natives were affected by it, excited general alarm, and not unreasonably,
                            for medical science, after protracted
                        investigation, knows less of leprosy than of cholera. Nor are medical men
                        wholly agreed as to the manner in which infection is communicated; and, as
                        the white residents on the islands associate very freely and intimately with
                        the natives, eating poi out of their
                        calabashes, and sleeping in their houses and on their mats, there was just
                        cause for uneasiness.
                    The natives themselves have been, and still are, perfectly reckless about the
                        risk of contagion, and although the family instinct among them is singularly
                        weak, the gregarious or social instinct is singularly strong, and it has
                        been found impossible to induce them to give up smoking the pipes, wearing
                        the clothes, and sleeping on the mats of lepers, which three things are
                        universally regarded by medical men as undoubted sources of infection. At
                        the beginning of 1873, it was estimated that nearly 400 lepers were
                        scattered up and down the islands, living among their families and friends,
                        and the healthy associated with them in complete apathy or fatalism. However
                        bloated the face and glazed the eyes, or however swollen or decayed the
                        limbs were, the persons so afflicted appeared neither to scare nor disgust
                        their friends, and, therefore, Hawaii has absolutely needed the coercive
                        segregation of these living foci of
                        disease. When the search for lepers was made, the natives hid their friends
                        away under mats, and in forests and caves, till the peril of separation was
                        over, and if they sought medical advice, they rejected foreign educated aid
                        in favour of the highly paid services of Chinese and native quacks, who
                        professed to work a cure by means of loathsome ointments and decoctions, and abominable broths worthy of the
                        witches' cauldron.
                    However, as the year passed on, lepers were “informed against,” and it became
                        the painful duty of the sheriffs of the islands, on the statement of a
                        doctor that any individual was truly a leper, to commit him for life to
                        Molokai. Some, whose swollen faces and glassy goggle eyes left no room for
                        hope of escape, gave themselves up; and a few, who, like Mr. Ragsdale, might
                        have remained among their fellows almost without suspicion, surrendered
                        themselves in a way which reflects much credit upon them. Mr. Park, the
                        Marshal, and Mr. Wilder, of the Board of Health, went round the islands
                        repeatedly in the Kilauea, and performed the painful duty of
                        collecting the victims, with true sympathy and kindness. The woe of those
                        who were taken, the dismal wailings of those who were left, and the agonised
                        partings, when friends and relatives clung to the swollen limbs and kissed
                        the glistering bloated faces of those who were exiled from them for ever, I
                        shall never forget.
                    There were no individual distinctions made among the sufferers. Queen Emma's
                        cousin, a man of property, and Mr. Ragsdale, the most influential lawyer
                        among the half-whites, shared the same doom as poor Upa, the volcano guide,
                        and stricken Chinamen and labourers from the plantations. Before the search
                        slackened, between three and four hundred men, women, and children were
                        gathered out from among their families, and placed on Molokai.
                    Between 1866 and April 1874, eleven hundred and forty- five lepers, five hundred and sixty of whom were
                        sent from Kahili in the spring of 1872, have arrived on Molokai, of which
                        number four hundred and forty-two have died, the majority of the deaths
                        having occurred since the beginning of Lunalilo's reign, when the work of
                        segregation was undertaken in earnest. At the present time the number on the
                        island is 703, including 22 children. These unfortunates are necessarily
                        pauperised, and the small Hawaiian kingdom finds itself much burdened by
                        their support. The strain on the national resources is very great, and it is
                        not surprising that officials called upon to meet such a sad emergency
                        should be assailed in all quarters of the globe by sentimental criticism and
                        misstatements regarding the provision made for the lepers on Molokai. Most
                        of these are unfounded, and the members of the Board of Health deserve great
                        credit both for their humanity and for their prompt and careful attention to
                        the complaints made by the sufferers.
                    At present the two obvious blots on the system are, the insufficient house
                        accommodation, involving a herding together which is repulsive to foreign,
                        though not to native, ideas; and the absence of a resident physician to
                        prescribe for the ailments from which leprosy is no exemption. Molokai, the
                        island of exile, is Molokai aina pali,
                        “the land of precipices,” in the old native mélés, and its walls of rock rise perpendicularly from the
                        sea to a height varying from 1000 to 2500 feet, in extreme grandeur and
                        picturesqueness, and are slashed, as on IHawaii, by gulches opening out on
                        natural lawns on the sea level. The place chosen for the centralization
                            and segregation of leprosy is a most
                        singular plain of about 20,000 acres, hemmed in between the sea and a
                        precipice 2000 feet high, passable only where a zigzag bridle track swings
                        over its face, so narrow and difficult that it has been found impossible to
                        get cattle down over it, so that the leper settlement below has depended for
                        its supplies of fresh meat upon vessels. The settlement is accessible also
                        by a very difficult landing at Kalaupapa on the windward side of
                        Molokai.
                    Three miles inland from Kalaupapa is the leper village of Kalawao, which may
                        safely be pronounced one of the most horrible spots on all the earth; a home
                        of hideous disease and slow coming death, with which science in despair has
                        ceased to grapple; a community of doomed beings, socially dead, “whose only
                        business is to perish;” wifeless husbands, husbandless wives, children
                        without parents, and parents without children; men and women who have “no
                        more a portion for ever in anything that is clone under the sun,” condemned
                        to watch the repulsive steps by which each of their doomed fellows passes
                        down to a loathsome death, knowing that by the same they too must pass.
                    A small stone church near the landing, and another at Kalawao, tell of the
                        extraordinary devotion of a Catholic priest, who, with every prospect of
                        advancement in his Church, and with youth, culture, and refinement to hold
                        him back from the sacrifice, is in this hideous valley, a self exiled man,
                        for Christ's sake. It was singular to hear the burst of spontaneous
                        admiration which his act elicited. No unworthy motives were suggested,
                            all envious speech was hushed; it was
                        almost forgotten by the most rigid Protestants that Father Damiens, who has
                        literally followed the example of Christ by “laying down his life for the
                        brethren,” is a Romish priest, and an intuition, higher than all reasoning,
                        hastened to number him with “the noble army of martyrs.”
                    In Kalawao are placed not only the greater number of the lepers, but the
                        hospital buildings. Most of the victims are of the poorer classes and live
                        in brown huts; but two of rank, Mrs. Napela and the Hon. P.Y. Kaeo, Queen
                        Emma's cousin, have neat wooden cottages on the way from the landing, with
                        every comfort which their means can provide for them. The hospital buildings
                        are about twelve in number, well and airily situated on a height; they are
                        built of wood thoroughly whitewashed, and are enclosed by a fence. Although
                        it is hoped that a leper hospital is not to be a permanent institution of
                        the kingdom, the soft green grass of the enclosure has been liberally
                        planted with algaroba trees, which in a year or two will form a goodly
                        shade, and water has been brought in from a distance at considerable
                        expense, so that an abundant supply is always at hand. The lepers are dying
                        fast, and the number of advanced cases in the hospital averages forty. In
                        the centre of the hospital square there are the office buildings, including
                        the dispensary, which is well supplied with medicines, so that in the
                        absence of a doctor, common ailments may be treated by an intelligent
                        English leper. The superintendent's office, where the accounts and
                        statistics of the settlement are kept, and where the leper governor holds
                        his leper court, and the post-office, are
                        also within the enclosure; but the true governor and law-giver is Death.
                    When Mr. Ragsdale left Hilo as a leper, the course he was likely to take on
                        Molokai could not be accurately forecasted; and it was felt that the
                        presence in the leper community of a man of his gift of eloquence and
                        influence might either be an invaluable assistance to the government, or
                        else a serious embarrassment. In every position he had hitherto occupied, he
                        had acquired and retained a remarkable notoriety; and no stranger could
                        visit the islands without hearing of poor “Bill Ragsdale's” gifts, and the
                        grievous failings by which they were accompanied.
                    Hitherto the hopes of his well wishers have been fulfilled, and the
                        government has found in him a most energetic as well as prudent agent. “It
                        is better to be first in Britain than second in Rome;” and probably this
                        unfortunate man, superintendent of the leper settlement, and popularly known
                        as “Governor Ragsdale,” has found a nobler scope for his ambition among his
                        doomed brethren than in any previous position. His remarkable power of
                        influencing his countrymen is at present used for their well being; and
                        though his authority is practically almost absolute, owing to the isolation
                        of the community, and its position almost outside the operation of law, he
                        has hitherto used it with good faith and moderation. He is nominally
                        assisted in his duties by a committee of twenty chosen from among the lepers
                        themselves; but from his superior education and native mental ascendancy, all immediate matters in the settlement are
                        decided by his judgment alone.
                    The rations of food are ample and of good quality, and notwithstanding the
                        increase in the number of lepers, and the difficulty of communication, there
                        has not been any authenticated case of want. Each leper receives weekly 21
                        lbs. of paiai, and from 5 to 6 of beef,
                        and when these fail to be landed, 9 lbs. of rice, 1 lb. of sugar, and 4 lbs.
                        of salmon. Soap and clothing are also supplied; but, for all beyond these
                        necessaries, the lepers are dependent on their own industry, if they are
                        able to exercise it, and the kindness of their friends. Coffee, tobacco,
                        pipes, extra clothing, knives, toys, books, pictures, working implements and
                        materials, have all been possessed by them in happier days; and though
                        packages of such things have been sent by the charitable for distribution by
                        Father Damiens, it is not possible for island benevolence fully to meet an
                        emergency and needs so disproportionate to the population and resources of
                        the kingdom. Besides the two Catholic churches, there are a Protestant
                        chapel, with a pastor, himself a leper, who is a regularly ordained minister
                        of the Hawaiian Board, and two school-houses, where the twenty-two children
                        of the settlement receive instruction in Hawaiian from a leper teacher.
                        There is a store, too, where those who are assisted by their friends can
                        purchase small luxuries, which are sold at just such an advance on cost as
                        is sufficient to clear the expense of freight. The taste for ornament has
                        not died out in either sex, and women are to be seen in Kalawao, hideous and
                            bloated beyond description, decorated
                        with leis of flowers, and looking for
                        admiration out of their glazed and goggle eyes.
                    King Kalakaua and Queen Kapiolani have paid a visit to the settlement, and
                        were received with hearty alohas, and the
                        music of a leper band. The king made a short address to the lepers, the
                        substance of which was “that his heart was grieved with the necessity which
                        had separated these, his subjects, from their homes and families, a
                        necessity which they themselves recognised and acquiesced in, and it should
                        be the earnest desire of himself and his government to render their
                        condition in exile as comfortable as possible.” While he spoke, though it is
                        supposed that a merciful apathy attends upon leprosy, his hideous audience
                        showed signs of deep feeling, and many shed tears at his thoughtfulness in
                        coming to visit those, who, to use their own touching expression, were
                        “already in the grave.”
                    The account which follows is from the pen of a gentleman who accompanied the
                        king, and visited the hospital on the same occasion, in company with two
                        members of the Board of Health.
                    “As our party stepped on shore, we found the lepers assembled to the number
                        of two or three hundred—there are 697 all told in the settlement—for they
                        had heard in advance of our coming, and our ears were greeted with the sound
                        of lively music. This proceeded from the ‘band,’ consisting of a drum, a
                        fife, and two flutes, rather skilfully played upon by four young lads, whose
                        visages were horribly marked and disfigured with leprosy. The sprightly airs with which these poor creatures
                        welcomed the arrival of the party, sounded strangely incongruous and out of
                        place, and grated harshly upon our feelings. And then as we proceeded up the
                        beach, and the crowd gathered about us, eager and anxious for a recognition
                        or a kind word of greeting-oh, the repulsive and sickening libels and
                        distorted caricatures of the human face divine upon which we looked! And as
                        they evidently read the ill-concealed aversion in our countenances, they
                        withdrew the half-proffered hand, and slunk back with hanging heads. They
                        felt again that they were lepers, the outcasts of society, and
                        must not contaminate us with their touch. A few cheerful words of inquiry
                        from the physician, Dr. Trousseau, addressed to individuals as to their
                        particular cases, broke the embarrassment of this first meeting, and soon
                        the crowd were chatting and laughing just like any other crowd of
                        thoughtless Hawaiians, and with but few exceptions, these unfortunate exiles
                        showed no signs of the settled melancholy that would naturally be looked for
                        from people so hopelessly situated. Very happy were they when spoken to, and
                        quite ready to answer any questions. We saw numbers whom we had known in
                        years past, and who, having disappeared, we had thought dead. One we had
                        knlown as a Representative, and a very intelligent one, too, in the
                        Legislature of 1868. On greeting him as an old-time acquaintance, he
                        observed, ‘Yes, we meet again—in this living grave!’ He is a man of no
                        little. consideration among the people, being entrusted by the Board of
                        Health with the care of the store which is kept here for the sale of such goods as the people
                        require. All do not appear to be lepers who are leprous. We saw numbers who
                        might pass along our streets any day without being suspected of the taint.
                        They had it, however, in one way or another. Sometimes on the extremities
                        only, eating away the flesh and rotting the bones of the hands or feet; and
                        sometimes only appearing in black and indurated spots on the skin, noticed
                        only on a somewhat close examination. This last sort is said to be the
                        worst, as being most surely fatal and easiest transmitted. We saw women who
                        had the disease in this stage, walking about, whom it was difficult to
                        believe were lepers.
                    “If our sensibilities were shocked at the sight of the crowd of lepers we had
                        met at the beach, walking about in physical strength and activity, how shall
                        we describe our sensations in looking upon these loathsome creatures in the
                        hospital, in whom it was indeed hard to recognise anything human? The rooms
                        were cleanly kept and well ventilated, but the atmosphere within was
                        pervaded with the sickening odour of the grave. At each end, squatted or
                        lying prone on their respective mats or mattresses, were the yet breathing
                        corpses of lepers in the last stages of various forms of the disease, who
                        glanced inquisitively at us for a moment out of their ghoul-like eyes—those
                        who were not already beyond seeing—and then withdrew within their dreadful
                        selves. Was there ever a more pitiful sight?
                    “In one room we saw a sight that will ever remain fixed indelibly on the
                        tablets of memory. A little blue-eyed, flaxen haired child, apparently three
                        or four years old, a half-caste, that
                        looked up at us with an expression of timorous longing to be caressed and
                        loved; but alas, in its glassy eyes and transparent cheeks were the
                        unmistakable signs of the curse—the sin of the parents visited upon the
                        child!
                    “In another room was one—a mass of rotting flesh, with but little semblance
                        of humanity remaining—who was dying, and whose breath came hurried and
                        obstructed. A few hours at most, and his troubles would be over, and his
                        happy release arrive. There had been fourteen deaths in the settlement
                        during the previous fortnight. On the day of our visit there were
                        fifty-eight inmates of the hospital.”
                    Though the lifting of the veil of mystery which hangs over the death valley
                        of Molokai discloses some of the most woeful features of the curse, it is a
                        relief to know the worst, and that the poor leprous outcasts in their
                        “living grave” are not outside the pale of humanity and a judicious
                        philanthropy. All that can be done for them is to encourage their remaining
                        capacities for industry, and to smooth, as far as is possible, the journey
                        of death. The Hawaiian Government is doing its best to “stamp out” the
                        disease, and to provide for the comfort of those who are isolated; and, with
                        the limited means at its disposal, has acted with an efficiency and humanity
                        worthy of the foremost of civilised countries.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXVIII.
                
                    HILO. June 2nd
                
                OFTEN since I finished my last letter has Hazael's reply to
                    Elisha occurred to me, “Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this thing?” For
                    in answer to people who have said, “I hope nothing will induce you to attempt
                    the ascent of Mauna Loa,” I always said, “Oh, dear, no! I should never dream of
                    it;” or, “Nothing would persuade me to think of it!”
                This morning early, Mr. Green came in, on his way to Kilauea, to which I was to
                    accompany him, and on my casually remarking that I envied him his further
                    journey, he at once asked me to join him, and I joyfully accepted the
                    invitation! For, indeed, my heart has been secretly set on going, and I have had
                    to repeat to myself fifty times a day, “no, I must not think of it, for it is
                        impossible.”
                Mr. Green is going up well equipped with a tent, horses, a baggage mule, and a
                    servant, and is confident of being able to get a guide and additional mules
                    fifty miles from Hilo. I had to go to the Union School examination where the
                    Hilo world was gathered, but I could think of nothing but the future; and I can
                    hardly write sense, the prospect of the next week is so exciting, and the time for making preparations is so short. It
                    is an adventurous trip anyhow, and the sufferings which our predecessors have
                    undergone, from Commodore Wilkes downwards, make me anxious not to omit any
                    precaution. The distance which has to be travelled through an uninhabited
                    region, the height and total isolation of the summit, the uncertainty as to the
                    state of the crater, and the duration of its activity, with the possibility of
                    total failure owing to fog or strong wind, combine to make our ascent an
                    experimental trip.
                The news of the project soon spread through the village, and as the ascent has
                    only once been performed by a woman, the kindly people are profuse in offers of
                    assistance, and in interest in the journey, and every one is congratulating me
                    on my good fortune in having Mr. Green for my travelling companion. I have
                    hunted all the beach stores through for such essentials as will pack into small
                    compass, and every one said “So you are going to ‘the mountain;’ I hope you'll
                    have a good time;” or, “I hope you'll have the luck to get up.”
                Among the friends of my hosts all sorts of useful articles were produced, a camp
                    kettle, a camping blanket, a huge Mexican poncho, a cardigan, capacious
                    saddlebags, &c. Nor was Kahélé forgotten, for the last contribution was
                    a bag of oats! The greatest difficulty was about warm clothing, for in this
                    perfect climate, woollen underclothing is not necessary as in many tropical
                    countries, but it is absolutely essential on yonder mountain till late in the
                    afternoon the best intentions and the most energetic rummaging in old trunks
                    failed to produce it. At last Mrs. —, wife of
                    an old Scotch settler, bestowed upon me the invaluable loan of a stout flannel
                    shirt, and a pair of venerable worsted stockings, much darned, knitted in
                    Fifeshire a quarter of a century ago. When she brought them, the excellent lady
                    exclaimed, “Oh, what some people will do!” with an obvious personal
                    reference.
                She tells us that her husband, who owns the ranch on the mountain at which we are
                    to stay the last night, has been obliged to forbid any of his natives going up
                    as guides, and that she fears we shall not get a guide, as the native who went
                    up with Mr. Whyte suffered so dreadfully from mountain sickness, that they were
                    obliged to help him down, and he declares that he will not go up again. Mr.
                    Whyte tells us that he suffered himself from vomiting and vertigo for fourteen
                    hours, and severely from thirst also, as the water froze in their canteens; but
                    I am almost well now, and as my capacity for “roughing it” has been severely
                    tested, I hope to “get on” much better. A party made the ascent nine months ago,
                    and the members of it also suffered severely, but I see no reason why cautious
                    people, who look well to their gear and clothing, and are prudent with regard to
                    taking exercise at the top, should suffer anything worse than the inconveniences
                    which are inseparable from nocturnal cold at a high elevation.
                My preparations are completed to-night, the last good wishes have been spoken,
                    and we intend to leave early tomorrow morning.
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXIX.*
                
                    
                        CRATER HOUSE, KILAUEA. June 4th.
                    
                    ONCE more I write with the splendours of the quenchless
                        fires in sight, and the usual world seems twilight and commonplace by the
                        fierce glare of Halemaumau, and the fitful glare of the other and loftier
                        flame, which is burning ten thousand feet higher in lonely
                        Mokua-weo-weo.
                    Mr. Green and I left Hilo soon after daylight this morning, and made about
                        “the worst time” ever made on the route. We jogged on slowly and silently
                        for thirty miles in Indian file, through bursts of tropical beauty, over an
                        ocean of fern-clad pahoehoe, the air hot
                        and stagnant, the horses lazy and indifferent, till I was awoke from the
                        kind of cautious doze into which one falls on a sure-footed horse, by a
                        decided coolness in the atmosphere, and Kahélé breaking into a lumbering
                        gallop, which he kept up till we reached this house, where, in spite of the
                        exercise, we are glad to get close to a large wood fire. Although we are
                        shivering, the mercury is 57°, but in this warm and equable climate, one's 
                            sensa-
                            sensations
                        
                        * I venture to
                            present this journal letter just as it was written, trusting that the
                            interest which attaches to volcanic regions, will carry the reader
                            though the minuteness and multiplicity of the details. tions are not significant of the height of the
                        thermometer.
                    It is very fascinating to be here on the crater's edge, and to look across
                        its deep three miles of blackness to the clouds of red light which
                        Halemaumau is sending up, but altogether exciting to watch the lofty curve
                        of Mauna Loa upheave itself against the moon, while far and faint, we see,
                        or think we see, that solemn light, which ever since my landing at Kawaihae
                        has been so mysteriously attractive. It is three days off yet. Perhaps its
                        spasmodic fires will die out, and we shall find only blackness. Perhaps
                        anything, except our seeing it as it ought to be seen! The practical
                        difficulty about a guide increases, and Mr. Gilman cannot help us to solve
                        it. And if it be so cold at 4000 feet, what will it be at 14,000?
                
                
                    
                        KILAUEA. June 5th.
                    
                    
                    I have no room in my thoughts for anything but volcanoes, and it will be so
                        for some days to come. We have been all day in the crater, in fact, I left
                        Mr. Green and his native there, and came up with the guide, sore, stiff,
                        bruised, cut, singed, grimy, with my thick gloves shrivelled off by the
                        touch of sulphurous acid, and my boots nearly burned off. But what are cuts,
                        bruises, fatigue, and singed eyelashes, in comparison with the awful
                        sublimities I have witnessed to-day? The activity of Kilauea on Jan. 31 was
                        as child's play to its activity to-day: as a display of fireworks compared
                        to the conflagration of a metropolis. Then, the sense of awe
                        gave way speedily to that of admiration of the dancing fire fountains of a fiery lake; now, it
                        was all terror, horror, and sublimity, blackness, suffocating gases,
                        scorching heat, crashings, surgings, detonations; half seen fires, hideous,
                        tortured, wallowing waves. I feel as if the terrors of Kilauea would haunt
                        me all my life, and be the Nemesis of weak and tired hours.
                    We left early, and descended the terminal wall, still as before, green with
                        ferns, ohias, and sandalwood, and bright
                        with clusters of turquoise berries, and the red fruit and waxy blossoms of
                        the ohelo. The lowest depression of the
                        crater, which I described before as a level fissured sea of iridescent lava,
                        has been apparently partially flooded by a recent overflow from Halemaumau,
                        and the same agency has filled up the larger rifts with great shining rolls
                        of black lava, obnoxiously like boa-constrictors in a state of repletion. In
                        crossing this central area for the second time, with a mind less distracted
                        by the novelty of the surroundings, I observed considerable deposits of
                        remarkably impure sulphur, as well as sulphates of lime and alum in the
                        larger fissures. The presence of moisture was always apparent in connexion
                        with these formations. The solidified surges and convolutions in which the
                        lava lies, the latter sometimes so beautifully formed as to look like coils
                        of wire rope, are truly wonderful. Within the cracks there are extraordinary
                        coloured growths, orange, grey, buff, like mineral lichens, but very hard
                        and brittle.
                    The recent lava flow by which Halemaumau has considerably heightened its
                        walls, has raised the hill by which you ascend to the brink of the pit to a
                            height of fully five hundred feet from
                        the basin, and this elevation is at present much more fiery and precarious
                        than the former one. It is dead, but not cold, lets one through into cracks
                        hot with corrosive acid, rings hollow everywhere, and its steep acclivities
                        lie in waves, streams, coils, twists, and tortuosities of all kinds, the
                        surface glazed and smoothish, and with a metallic lustre.
                    Somehow, I expected to find Kilauea as I had left it in January, though the
                        volumes of dense white smoke which are now rolling up from it might have
                        indicated a change; but after the toilsome, breathless climbing of the awful
                        lava hill, with the crust becoming more brittle, and the footing hotter at
                        each step, instead of laughing fire fountains tossing themselves in gory
                        splendour above the rim, there was a hot, sulphurous, mephitic chaos,
                        covering, who knows what, of horror?
                    So far as we could judge, the level of the lake had sunk to about 80 feet
                        below the margin, and the lately formed precipice was overhanging it
                        considerably. About seven feet back from the edge of the ledge, there was a
                        fissure about eighteen inches wide, emitting heavy fumes of sulphurous acid
                        gas. Our visit seemed in vain, for on the risky verge of this crack we could
                        only get momentary glimpses of wallowing fire, glaring lurid through dense
                        masses of furious smoke which were rolling themselves round in the abyss as
                        if driven by a hurricane.
                    After failing to get a better standpoint, we suffered so much from the gases,
                        that we coasted the north, till we reached the south lake, one with the
                        other on my former visit, but now separated by a solid lava barrier about three hundred feet broad, and eighty
                        high. Here there was comparatively little smoke, and the whole mass of
                        contained lava was ebullient and incandescent, its level marked the whole
                        way round by a shelf or rim of molten lava, which adhered to the side, as
                        ice often adheres to the margin of rapids, when the rest of the water is
                        liberated and in motion. There was very little centripetal action apparent.
                        Though the mass was violently agitated it always took a southerly direction,
                        and dashed itself with fearful violence against some lofty, undermined
                        cliffs which formed its southern limit. The whole region vibrated with the
                        shock of the fiery surges. To stand there
                        was “to snatch a fearful joy,” out of a pain and terror which were
                        unendurable. For two or three minutes we kept going to the edge, seeing the
                        spectacle as with a flash, through half closed eyes, and going back again;
                        but a few trials, in which throats, nostrils, and eyes were irritated to
                        torture by the acid gases, convinced us that it was unsafe to attempt to
                        remain by the lake, as the pain and gasping for breath which followed each
                        inhalation, threatened serious consequences.
                     
                    With regard to the north lake we were more fortunate, and more persevering,
                        and I regard the three hours we spent by it as containing some of the most
                        solemn, as well as most fascinating, experiences of my life. The aspect of
                        the volcano had altogether changed within four months. At present there are
                        two lakes surrounded by precipices about eighty feet high. Owing to the
                        smoke and confusion, it is most difficult
                        to estimate their size even approximately, but I think that the diameter of
                        the two cannot be less than a fifth of a mile.
                    Within the pit or lake by which we spent the morning, there were no fiery
                        fountains, or regular plashings of fiery waves playing in indescribable
                        beauty in a faint blue atmosphere, but lurid, gory, molten, raging,
                        sulphurous, tormented masses of matter, half seen through masses as
                        restless, of lurid smoke. Here, the violent action appeared centripetal, but
                        with a southward tendency. Apparently, huge bulging masses of a
                        lurid-coloured lava were wallowing the whole time one over another in a
                        central whirlpool, which occasionally flung up a wave of fire thirty or
                        forty feet. The greatest intensity of action was always preceded by a dull
                        throbbing roar, as if the imprisoned gases were seeking the vent which was
                        afforded them by the upward bulging of the wave and its bursting into spray.
                        The colour of the lava which appeared to be thrown upwards from great
                        depths, was more fiery and less gory than that nearer the surface. Now and
                        then, through rifts in the smoke we saw a convergence of the whole molten
                        mass into the centre, which rose wallowing and convulsed to a considerable
                        height. The awful sublimity of what we did see, was enhanced by the
                        knowledge that it was only a thousandth part of what we did not see, mere
                        momentary glimpses of a terror and fearfulness which otherwise could not
                        have been borne.
                    A ledge, only three or four feet wide, hung over the lake, and between that
                        and the comparative terra firma of the
                        older lava, there was a fissure of unknown depth, emitting hot blasts of pernicious gases. The
                        guide would not venture on the outside ledge, but Mr. Green, in his
                        scientific zeal, crossed the crack, telling me not to follow him, but
                        presently, in his absorption with what he saw, called to me to come, and I
                        jumped across, and this remained our perilous standpoint.*
                    Burned, singed, stifled, blinded, only able to stand on one foot at a time,
                        jumping back across the fissure every two or three minutes to escape an
                        unendurable whiff of heat and sulphurous stench, or when splitting sounds
                        below threatened the disruption of the ledge: lured as often back by the
                        fascination of the horrors below; so we spent three hours.
                    There was every circumstance of awfulness to make the impression of the sight
                        indelible. Sometimes dense volumes of smoke hid everything, and yet,
                        upwards, from out “their sulphurous canopy” fearful sounds rose, crashings,
                        thunderings, detonations, and we never knew then whether the spray of some
                        hugely uplifted wave might not dash up to where we stood. At other times the
                        smoke partially lifting, but still swirling in strong eddies, revealed a
                        central whirlpool of fire, wallowing at unknown depths, to which the lava,
                        from all parts of the lake, slid centrewards and downwards as into a vortex,
                        where it mingled its waves with indescribable noise and fury, and then,
                        breaking upwards, dashed itself to a great * Since then, the Austins of Onomea were
                            standing on a similar ledge, when a sound as gf a surge striking below,
                            mnade them jump back hastily, and in another moment the projection split
                            off, and was engulfed in the fiery lake. height in fierce, gory, gouts and clots, while
                        hell itself seemed opening at our feet. At times, again, bits of the lake
                        skinned over with a skin of a wonderful silvery, satiny sheen, to be
                        immediately devoured; and as the lurid billows broke, they were mingled with
                        misplaced patches as if of bright moonlight. Always changing, always
                        suggesting force which nothing could repel, agony indescribable, mystery
                        inscrutable, terror unutterable, a thing of eternal dread, revealed only in
                        glimpses!
                    It is natural to think that St. John the Evangelist, in some Patmos vision,
                        was transported to the brink of this “bottomless pit,” and found in its
                        blackness and turbulence of agony the fittest emblems of those tortures of
                        remorse and memory, which we may well believe are the quenchless flames of
                        the region of self-chosen exile from goodness and from God. As natural, too,
                        that all Scripture phrases which typify the place of woe should recur to one
                        with the force of a new interpretation, “Who can dwell with the everlasting
                        burnings?” “The smoke of their torment goeth up for ever and ever,” “The
                        place of hell,” “The bottomless pit,” “The vengeance of eternal fire,” “A
                        lake of fire burning with brimstone.” No sight can be so fearful as this
                        glimpse into the interior of the earth, where fires are for ever wallowing
                        with purposeless force and aimless agony.
                    Beyond the lake there is a horrible region in which dense volumes of smoke
                        proceed from the upper ground, with loud bellowings and detonations, and we
                        took our perilous way in that direction, over very hot lava which gave way
                        constantly. It is near this that the steady fires are situated which are visible from this house at
                        night. We came first upon a solitary “blowing cone,” beyond which there was
                        a group of three or four, but it is not from these that the smoke proceeds,
                        but from the extensive area beyond them, covered with smoke and steam
                        cracks, and smoking banks, which are probably formed of sulphur deposits. I
                        only visited the solitary cone, for the footing was so precarious, the sight
                        so fearful, and the ebullitions of gases so dangerous, that I did not dare
                        to go near the others, and never wish to look upon their like again.
                    The one I saw was of beehive shape, about twelve feet high, hollow inside,
                        and its walls were about two feet thick. A part of its imperfect top was
                        blown off, and a piece of its side blown out, and the side rent gave one a
                        frightful view of its interior, with the risk of having lava spat at one at
                        intervals. The name “Blowing Cone” is an apt one, if the theory of their
                        construction be correct. It is supposed that when the surface of the lava
                        cools rapidly owing to enfeebled action below, the gases force their way
                        upwards through small vents, which then serve as “blow holes” for the
                        imprisoned fluid beneath. This, rapidly cooling as it is ejected, forms a
                        ring on the surface of the crust, which, growing upwards by accretion, forms
                        a chimney, eventually nearly or quite closed at the top, so as to form a
                        cone. In this case the cone is about eighty feet above the present level of
                        the lake, and fully one hundred yards distant from its present verge.
                    The whole of the inside was red and molten, full of knobs, and great fiery
                        stalactites. Jets of lava at a white heat
                        were thrown up constantly, and frequently the rent in the side spat out lava
                        in clots, which cooled rapidly, and looked like drops of bottle green glass.
                        The glimpses I got of the interior were necessarily brief and intermittent.
                        The blast or roar which came up from below was more than deafening; it was
                        stunning: and accompanied with heavy subterranean rumblings and detonations.
                        The chimney, so far as I could see, opened out gradually downwards to a
                        great width, and appeared to be about forty feet deep; and at its base there
                        was an abyss of lashing, tumbling, restless fire, emitting an ominous
                        surging sound, and breaking upwards with a fury which threatened to blow the
                        cone and the crust on which it stands, into the air.
                    The heat was intense, and the stinging sulphurous gases which were given
                        forth in large quantities, most poisonous. The group of cones west of this
                        one, was visited by Mr. Green; but he found it impossible to make any
                        further explorations. He has seen nearly all the recent volcanic phenomena,
                        but says that these cones present the most “infernal” appearance he has ever
                        witnessed. We returned for a last look at Halemaumau, but the smoke was so
                        dense, and the sulphur fumes so stifling, that, as in a fearful dream, we
                        only heard the thunder of its hidden surges. I write thunder, and one speaks
                        of the lashing of its waves; but these are words pertaining to the familiar
                        earth, and have no place in connection with Kilauea. The breaking lava has a
                        voice all its own, full of compressed fury. Its sound, motion, and aspect
                        are all infernal. Hellish, is the only fitting term.
                    
                    We are dwelling on a cooled crust all over Southern Hawaii, the whole region
                        is recent lava, and between this and the sea there are several distinct
                        lines of craters thirty miles long, all of which at some time or other have
                        vomited forth the innumerable lava streams which streak the whole country in
                        the districts of Kau, Puna, and Hilo. In fact, Hawaii is a great slag. There
                        is something very solemn in the position of this crater-house: with smoke
                        and steam coming out of every pore of the ground, and in front the huge
                        crater, which to-night lights all the sky. My second visit has produced a
                        far deeper impression even than the first, and one of awe and terror
                        solely.
                    Kilauea is altogether different from the European volcanoes which send lava
                        and stones into the air in fierce sudden spasms, and then subside into
                        harmlessness. Ever changing, never resting, the force which stirs it never
                        weakening, raging for ever with tossing and strength like the ocean: its
                        labours unfinished and possibly never to be finished, its very
                        unexpectedness adds to its sublimity and terror, for until you reach the
                        terminal wall of the crater, it looks by daylight but a smoking pit, in the
                        midst of a dreary stretch of waste land.
                    Last night I thought the Southern Cross out of place; to-night it seems
                        essential, as Calvary over against Sinai. For Halemaumau involuntarily
                        typifies the wrath which shall consume all evil: and the constellation, pale
                        against its lurid light, the great love and yearning of the Father, “who
                        spared not His own Son but delivered Him up for us all,” that, “as in Adam
                        all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”
                
                
                    
                    
                        AINEPO, HAWAII, June 5th.
                    
                    WE had a great fright last evening. We had been engaging
                        mules, and talking over our plans with our half-Indian host, when he opened
                        the door and exclaimed, “There's no light on Mauna Loa; the fire's gone
                        out.” We rushed out, and though the night was clear and frosty, the mountain
                        curve rose against the sky without the accustomed wavering glow upon it.
                        “I'm afraid you'll have your trouble for nothing,” Mr. Gilman
                        unsympathisingly remarked; “anyhow, its awfully cold up there,” and rubbing
                        his hands, reseated himself at the fire. Mr. G. and I stayed out till we
                        were half-frozen, and I persuaded myself and him that there was a redder
                        tinge than the moonlight above the summit, but the mountain has given no
                        sign all day, so that I fear that I “evolved” the light out of my “inner
                        consciousness.”
                    Mr. Gilman was eloquent on the misfortunes of our predecessors, lent me a
                        pair of woollen socks to put on over my gloves, told me privately that if
                        anyone could succeed in getting a guide it would be Mr. Green, and
                        dispatched us at eight this morning with a lurking smile at our “fool's
                        errand,” thinly veiled by warm wishes for our success. Mr. Reid has two
                        ranches on the mountain, seven miles distant from each other, and was
                        expected every hour at the crater-house on his way to Hilo, but it was not
                        known from which he was coming, and as it appeared that our last hope of
                        getting a guide lay in ucurg his good will, Mr. G., his servant, and
                        pack-mule took the lower trail, and I, with a native, a string of mules, and
                        a pack-horse, the upper. Our plans for
                        intercepting the good man were well laid and successful, but turned out
                        resultless.
                    This has been an irresistibly comical day, and it is just as well to have
                        something amusing interjected between the sublimities of Kilauea, and
                        whatever to-morrow may bring forth. When our cavalcades separated, I
                        followed the guide on a blind trail into the little-known regions on the
                        skirts of Mauna Loa. We only travelled two miles an hour, and the mules kept
                        getting up rows, kicking, and entangling their legs in the lariats, and one
                        peculiarly malign animal dealt poor Kahélé a gratuitous kick on his nose,
                        making it bleed.
                    It is strange, unique country, without any beauty. The seaward view is over a
                        great stretch of apparent table-land, spotted with craters, and split by
                        cracks emitting smoke or steam. The whole region is black with streams of
                        spiked and jagged lava, meandering over it, with charred stumps of trees
                        rising out of them.
                    The trail, if such it could be called, wound among koa and sandalwood trees occasionally, but habitually we
                        picked our way over waves, coils, and hummocks of pahoehoe surrounded by
                        volcanic sand, and with only a few tufts of grass, abortive ohelos, and vigorous sow thistles (much
                        relished by Kahélé) growing in their crevices. Horrid cracks, 50 or 60 feet
                        wide, probably made by earthquakes, abounded, and a black chasm of most
                        infernal aspect dogged us on the left. It was all scrambling up and down.
                        Sometimes there was long, ugly grass, a brownish green, coarse and tufty,
                        for a mile or more. Sometimes clumps of wintry-looking, dead trees, sometimes clumps of attenuated living
                        ones; but nothing to please the eye. We saw neither man nor beast the whole
                        way, except a wild bull, which, tearing down the mountain side, crossed the
                        trail just in front of us, causimg a stampede among the mules, and it was
                        fully an hour before they were all caught again.
                    The only other incident was an earthquake, the most severe, the men here tell
                        me, that has been experienced for two years. One is prepared for any
                        caprices on the part of the earth here, yet when there was a fearful
                        internal throbbing and rumbling, and the trees and grass swayed rapidly, and
                        great rocks and masses of soil were dislodged, and bounded down the
                        hillside, and the earth reeled, and my poor horse staggered and stopped
                        short; far from rising to the magnitude of the occasion, I thought I was
                        attacked with vertigo, and grasped the horn of my saddle to save myself from
                        falling. After a moment of profound stillness, there was again a
                        subterranean sound like a train in a tunnel, and the earth reeled again with
                        such violence that I felt as if the horse and myself had gone over. Poor K.
                        was nervous for some time afterwards. The motion was as violent as that of a
                        large ship in a mid-Atlantic storm. There were four minor shocks within half
                        an hour afterwards.
                    After crawling along for seven hours, and for the last two in a dripping fog,
                        so dense that I had to keep within kicking range of the mules for fear of
                        being lost, we heard the lowing of domestic cattle, and came to a place
                        where felled trees, very difficult for the horses to cross, were lying. Then
                        a rude boundary wall appeared, inside of
                        which was a small, poor-looking grass house, consisting of one
                        partially-divided room, with a small, ruinous-looking cook-house, a shed,
                        and an unfinished frame house. It looked, and is, a disconsolate conclusion
                        of a wet day's ride. I rode into the corral, and found two or three very
                        rough-looking whites and half-whites standing, and addressing one of them, I
                        found he was Mr. Reid's manager there. I asked if they could give me a
                        night's lodging, which seemed a diverting notion to them; and they said they
                        could give me the rough accommodation they had, but it was hard even for
                        them, till the new house was put up. They brought me into this very rough
                        shelter, a draughty grass room., with a bench, table, and one chair in it.
                        Two men came in, but not the native wife and family, and sat down to a
                        calabash of poi and some strips of dried
                        beef, food so coarse, that they apologised for not offering it to me. They
                        said they had sent to the lower ranch for some flour, and in the meantime
                        they gave me some milk in a broken bowl, their “nearest approach to a
                        tumbler,” they said. I was almost starving, for all our food was on the
                        pack-mule. This is the place where we had been told that we could obtain
                        tea, flour, beef, and fowls!
                    By some fatality my pen, ink, and knitting were on the pack-mule; it was very
                        cold, the afternoon fog closed us in, and darkness came on prematurely, so
                        that I felt a most absurd sense of ennui,
                        and went over to the cook house, where I found Gandle cooking, and his
                        native wife with a heap of children and dogs lying round the stove. I joined
                        them till my clothes were dry, on which the man, who in spite of his rough exterior, was really
                        friendly and hospitable, remarked that he saw I was “one of the sort who
                        knew how to take people as I found them.”
                    This regular afternoon mist which sets in at a certain altitude, blotting out
                        the sun and sky, and bringing the horizon within a few yards, makes me
                        certain after all that the mists of rainless Eden were a phenomenon, the
                        loss of which is not to be regretted.
                    Still the afternoon hung on, and I went back to the house feeling that the
                        most desirable event which the future could produce would be—a meal. Now and
                        then the men came in and talked for a while, and as the darkness and cold
                        intensified, they brought in an arrangement extemporised out of what looked
                        like a battered tin bath, half full of earth, with some lighted faggots at
                        the top, which gave out a little warmth and much stinging smoke. Actual,
                        undoubted, night came on without Mr. Green, of whose failure I felt certain,
                        and without food, and being blinded by the smoke, I rolled myself in a
                        blanket and fell asleep on the bench, only to wake in a great fright,
                        beleving that the volcano house was burning over my head, and that a
                        venerable missionary was taking advantage of the confusion to rob my
                        saddle-bags, which in truth one of the men was moving out of harm's way,
                        having piled up the fire two feet high.
                    Presently a number of voices outside shouted Haole! and Mr. Green came in shaking the water from his
                        waterproof, with the welcome words, “Everything's settled for to-morrow.”
                        Mr. Reid threw cold water on the ascent, and could give no help; and Mr. G.
                        being thus left to himself, after a great
                        deal of trouble, has engaged as guide an active young goat-hunter, who,
                        though he has never been to the top of the mountain, knows other parts of it
                        so well that he is sure he can take us up. Mr. G. also brings an additional
                        mule and pack-horse, so that our equipment is complete, except in the matter
                        of cruppers, which we have been obliged to make for ourselves out of goats'
                        hair rope, and old stockings. If Mr. G. has an eye for the picturesque, he
                        must have been gratified as he came in from the fog and darkness into the
                        grass room, with the flaring fire in the middle, the rifles gleaming on the
                        wall, the two men in very rough clothing, and myself huddled up in a blanket
                        sitting on the floor, where my friend was very glad to join us.
                    Mr. Green has brought nothing but tea from Kapapala, but Gandle has made some
                        excellent rolls, besides feasting us on stewed fowl, dough nuts, and milk!
                        Little comfort is promised for to-night, as Gandle says with a twinkle of
                        kindly malice in his eye, that we shall not “get a wink of sleep, for the
                        place swarms with fleas.” They are a great pest of the colder regions of the
                        islands, and like all other nuisances, are said to have been imported!
                        Gandle and the other man have entertained us with the misfortunes of our
                        predecessors, on which they seem to gloat with ill-omened satisfaction.
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXIX.—Continued.
                
                    
                        KAPAPALA, June 8th.
                    
                    THE fleas at Ainepo quite fulfilled Mr. Gandle's
                        prognostications, and I was glad when the cold stars went out one by one,
                        and a red, cloudless dawn broke over the mountain, accompanied by a heavy
                        dew and a morning mist, which soon rolled itself up into rosy folds and
                        disappeared, and there was a legitimate excuse for getting up. Our host
                        provided us with flour, sugar, and dough nuts, and a hot breakfast, and our
                        expedition, comprising two natives who knew not a word of English, Mr. G.
                        who does not know very much more Hawaiian than I do, and myself, started at
                        seven. We had four superb mules, and two good pack-horses, a large tent, and
                        a plentiful supply of camping blankets. I put on all my own warm clothes. as
                        well as most of those which had been lent to me, which gave me the squat,
                        padded, look of a puffin or Esquimaux, but all, and more were needed long
                        before we reached the top. The mules were beyond all praise. They went up
                        the most severe ascent I have ever seen, climbing steadily for nine hours,
                        without a touch of the spur, and after twenty-four hours of cold, thirst,
                        and hunger, came down again as actively as cats. The pack-horses too were
                        very good, but from the 
                            com-
                            comparative
                         parative clumsiness with which
                        they move their feet they were very severely cut.
                    We went off, as usual, in single file, the guide first, and Mr. G. last. The
                        track was passably legible for some time, and wound through long grass, and
                        small koa trees, mixed with stunted
                            ohias and a few common ferns. Half
                        these koa trees are dead, and all, both
                        living and dead, have their branches covered with a long hairy lichen,
                        nearly white, making the dead forest in the slight mist look like a wood in
                        England when covered with rime on a fine winter morning. The koa tree has a peculiarity of bearing two
                        distinct species of leaves on the same twig, one like a curved willow leaf,
                        the other that of an acacia.
                    After two hours ascent we camped on the verge of the timber line, and fed our
                        animals, while the two natives hewed firewood, and loaded the spare
                        pack-horse with it. The sky was by that time cloudless, and the atmosphere
                        brilliant, and both remained so until we reached the same place twenty-eight
                        hours later, so that the weather favoured us in every respect, for there is
                        “weather” on the mountain, rains, fogs, and wind storms. The grass only
                        grows sparsely in tufts above this place, and though vegetation exists up to
                        a height of 10,000 feet on this side, it consists, for the most part, of
                        grey lichens, a little withered grass, and a hardy asplenium.
                    At this spot the real business of the ascent begins, and we tightened our
                        girths, distributed the baggage as fairly as possible, and made all secure
                        before remounting.
                    We soon entered on vast uplands of pahoehoe
                            which ground away the animals' feet, a
                        horrid waste, extending upwards for 7000 feet. For miles and miles, above
                        and around, great billowy masses, tossed and twisted into an infinity of
                        fantastic shapes, arrest and weary the eye, lava in all its forms, from a
                        compact phonolite, to the lightest pumice stone, the mere froth of the
                        volcano, exceeding in wildness and confusion the most extravagant nightmare
                        ever inflicted on man. Recollect the vastness of this mountain. The whole
                        south of this large island, down to, and below the water's edge, is composed
                        of its slopes. Its height is nearly three miles, its base is 180 miles in
                        circumference, so that Wales might be packed away within it, leaving room to
                        spare. Yet its whole huge bulk, above a height of about 8000 feet, is one
                        frightful desert, at once the creation and the prey of the nmightiest force
                        on earth.
                    Struggling, slipping, tumbling, jumping, ledge after ledge was surmounted,
                        but still, upheaved against the glittering sky, rose new difficulties to be
                        overcome. Immense bubbles have risen from the confused masses, and bursting,
                        have yawned apart. Swift-running streams of more recent lava have cleft
                        straight furrows through the older congealed surface. Massive flows have
                        fallen in, exposing caverned depths of jagged outlines. Earthquakes have
                        riven the mountain, splitting its sides and opening deep crevasses, which must be leapt or circumvented.
                        Horrid streams of a-a have to be
                        cautiously skirted, which after rushing remorselessly over the kindlier lava
                        have heaped rugged pinnacles of brown scoriæ into impassable walls. Winding
                        round the bases of tossed up, fissured
                        hummocks of pahoehoe, leaping from one
                        broken hummock to another, clambering up acclivities so steep that the
                        pack-horse rolled backwards once, and my cat-like mule fell twice, moving
                        cautiously over crusts which rang hollow to the tread; stepping over deep
                        cracks, which, perhaps, led down to the burning fathomless sea, traversing
                        hilly lakes ruptured by earthquakes, and split in cooling into a thousand
                        fissures, painfully toiling up the sides of mounds of scoriæ frothed with
                        pumice-stone, and again for miles surmounting rolling surfaces of billowy
                        ropy lava—so passed the long day, under the tropic sun, and the deep blue
                        sky.
                    Towards afternoon, clouds heaped themselves in brilliant snowy masses, all
                        radiance and beauty to us, all fog and gloom below, girdling the whole
                        mountain, and interposing their glittering screen between us and the dark
                        timber belt, the black smoking shores of Kau, and the blue shimmer of the
                        Pacific. From that time, for twenty-four hours, the lower world, and “works
                        and ways of busy men” were entirely shut out, and we were alone with this
                        trackless and inanimate region of horror.
                    For the first time our guide hesitated as to the right track, for the faint
                        suspicion of white smoke, which had kept alive our hope that the fire was
                        still burning, had ceased to be visible. We called a halt while he
                        reconnoitred, tried to eat some food, found that our pulses were beating 100
                        a minute, bathed our heads, specially our temples, with snow, as we had been
                        advised to do by the oldest mountaineer on Hawaii, and heaped on yet more
                        clothing. In fact, I tied a double woollen scarf over all imy face but my eyes, and put on a French
                        soldier's overcoat, with cape and hood, which Mr. Green had brought in case
                        of emergency. The cold had become intense. We had not wasted words at any
                        time, and on remounting, preserved as profound a silence as if we were on a
                        forlorn hope, even the natives intermitting their ceaseless gabble.
                    Upwards still, in the cold bright air, coasting the edges of deep cracks,
                        climbing endless terraces, the nmules panting heavily, our breath coming as
                        if from excoriated lungs,—so we surmounted the highest ledge. But on
                        reaching the apparent summit we were to all appearance as far from the faint
                        smoke as ever, for this o magnificent dome, whose base is sixty miles in
                        diameter, is crowned by a ghastly volcanic table land, creviced, riven, and
                        ashy, twenty-four miles in circumference. A table-land, indeed, of dark grey
                        lava, blotched by outbursts, and torn by streams of brown a-a, full of hideous crevasses and fearful shapes, as if a hundred waves of lava
                        had rolled themselves one on another, and had congealed in confused heaps,
                        and been tortured in all directions by the mighty power which had upheaved
                        the whole.
                    Our guide took us a little wrong once, but soon recovered himself with much
                        sagacity. “Wrong” on Mauna Loa means being arrested by an impassable
                            a-a stream, and our last predecessors
                        had nearly been stopped by getting into one in which they suffered
                        severely.
                    These a-a streams are very deep, and when
                        in a state of fusion move along in a mass 20 feet high 
                            some-
                            sometimes
                         times, with very solid walls.
                        Professor Alexander, of Honolulu, supposes them to be from the beginning
                        less fluid than pahoehoe, and that they
                        advance very slowly, being full of solid points, or centres of cooling: that
                            a-a, in fact, grains like
                        sugar. Its hardness is indescribable. It is an aggregate of upright, rugged,
                        adamantine points, and at a distance, a river of it looks like a dark brown
                            Mer de Glace.
                    At half-past four we reached the edge of an a-a stream, about as wide as the Ouse at Huntingdon Bridge,
                        and it was obvious that somehow or other we must cross it: indeed, I know
                        not if it be possible to reach the crater without passing through one or
                        another of these obstacles. I should have liked to have left the animals
                        there, but it was represented as impossible to proceed on foot, and though
                        this was a decided misrepresentation, Mr. Green plunged in. I had resolved
                        that he should never have any bother in consequence of his kindness in
                        taking me with him, and, indeed, everyone had enough to do in taking care of
                        himself and his own beast, but I never found it harder to repress a cry for
                        help. Not that I was in the least danger, but there was every risk of the
                        beautiful mule being much hurt, or breaking her legs. The fear shown by the
                        animals was pathetic; they shrank back, cowered, trembled, breathed hard and
                        heavily, and stumbled and plunged painfully. It was sickening to see their
                        terror and suffering, the struggling and slipping into cracks, the blood and
                        torture. The mules with their small legs and wonderful agility were more
                        frightened than hurt, but the horses were splashed with blood up to their knees, and their poor eyes
                        looked piteous.
                    We were then, as we knew, close to the edge of the crater, but the faint
                        smoke wreath had disappeared, and there was nothing but the westering sun
                        hanging like a ball over the black horizon of the desolate summit. We rode
                        as far as a deep fissure filled with frozen snow, with a ledge beyond, threw
                        ourselves from our mules, jumped the fissure, and more than 800 feet below
                        yawned the inaccessible blackness and horror of the crater of Mokuaweoweo,
                        six miles in circumference, and 11,000 feet long by 8,000 wide. The mystery
                        was solved, for at one end of the crater, in a deep gorge of its own, above
                        the level of the rest of the area, there was the lonely fire, the reflection
                        of which, for six weeks, has been seen for 100 miles.
                    Nearly opposite us, a thing of beauty, a perfect fountain of pure yellow
                        fire, unlike the gory gleam of Kilauea, was regularly playing in several
                        united but independent jets, throwing up its glorious incandescence, to a
                        height, as we afterwards ascertained, of from 150 to 300 feet, and attaining
                        at one time 600! You cannot imagine such a beautiful sight. The sunset gold
                        was not purer than the living fire. The distance which we were from it,
                        divested it of the inevitable horrors which surround it. It was all beauty.
                        For the last two miles of the ascent, we had heard a distant vibrating roar:
                        there, at the crater's edge, it was a glorious sound, the roar of an ocean
                        at dispeace, mingled with the hollow murmur of surf echoing in sea caves,
                            booming on, rising and falling, like
                        the thunder music of windward Hawaii.
                    We sat on the ledge outside the fissure for some time, and Mr. Green actually
                        proposed to pitch the tent there, but I dissuaded him, on the ground that an
                        earthquake might send the whole thing tumbling into the crater; nor was this
                        a whimsical objection, for during the night there were two such falls, and
                        after breakfast, another quite near us.
                    We had travelled for two days under a strong impression that the fires had
                        died out, so you can imagine the sort of stupor of satisfaction with which
                        we feasted on the glorious certainty. Yes, it was glorious, that far-off
                        fire-fountain, and the lurid cracks in the slow-moving, black-crusted flood,
                        which passed calmly down from the higher level to the grand area of the
                        crater.
                    This area, over two miles long, and a mile and a half wide, with precipitous
                        sides 800 feet deep, and a broad second shelf about 300 feet below the one
                        we occupied, at that time appeared a dark grey, tolerably level lake, with
                        great black blotches, and yellow and white stains, the whole much fissured.
                        No steam or smoke proceeded from any part of the level surface, and it had
                        the unnaturally dead look which follows the action of fire. A ledge, or
                        false beach, which must mark a once higher level of the lava, skirts the
                        lake, at an elevation of thirty feet probably, and this fringed the area
                        with various signs of present volcanic action, steaming sulphur banks, and
                        heavy jets of smoke. The other side, above the crater, has a ridgy broken
                        look, giving the false 
                            impres-
                            impression
                         sion of a mountainous region
                        beyond. At this time the luminous fountain, and the red cracks in the river
                        of lava which proceeded from it, were the only fires visible in the great
                        area of blackness. In former days people have descended to the floor of the
                        crater, but owing to the breaking away of the accessible part of the
                        precipice, a descent now is not feasible, though I doubt not that a man
                        might even now get down, if he went up with suitable tackle, and sufficient
                        assistance.
                    The one disappointment was that this extraordinary fire-fountain was not only
                        800 feet below us, but nearly three-quarters of a mile from us, and that it
                        was impossible to get any nearer to it. Those who have made the ascent
                        before have found themselves obliged either to camp on the very spot we
                        occupied, or a little below it.
                    The natives pitched the tent as near to the crater as was safe, with one pole
                        in a crack, and the other in the great fissure, which was filled to within
                        three feet of the top with snow and ice. As the opening of the tent was on
                        the crater side, we could not get in or out without going down into this
                            crevasse. The tent walls were held
                        down with stones to make it as snug as possible, but snug is a
                        word of the lower earth, and has no meaning on that frozen mountain top. The
                        natural floor was of rough slabs of lava, laid partly edgewise, so that a
                        newly macadamised road would have been as soft a bed. The natives spread the
                        horse blankets over it, and I arranged the camping blankets, made my own
                        part of the tent as comfortable as possible by putting my inverted saddle
                        down for a pillow, put on my last reserve of warm clothing, took the food out of the saddle bags,
                        and then felt how impossible it was to exert myself in the rarified air, or
                        even to upbraid Mr. Green for having forgotten the tea, of which I had
                        reminded him as often as was consistent with politeness!
                    This discovery was not made till after we had boiled the kettle, and my
                        dismay was softened by remembering that as water boils up there at 187°, our
                        tea would have been worthless. In spite of my objection to stimulants, and
                        in defiance of the law against giving liquor to natives, I made a great tin
                        of brandy toddy, of which all partook, along with tinned salmon and
                        dough-nuts. Then the men piled faggots on the fire and began their
                        everlasting chatter, and Mr. Green and I, huddled up in blankets, sat on the
                        outer ledge in solemn silence, to devote ourselves to the volcano.
                    The sun was just setting: the tooth-like peaks of Mauna Kea,, cold and snow
                        slashed, which were blushing red, the next minute turned ghastly against a
                        chilly sky, and with the disappearance of the sun it became severely cold;
                        yet we were able to remain there till 9.30, the first people to whom such a
                        thing has been possible, so supremely favoured were we by the absence of
                        wind.
                    When the sun had set, and the brief red glow of the tropics had vanished, a
                        new world came into being, and wonder after wonder flashed forth from the
                        previously lifeless crater. Everywhere through its vast expanse appeared
                        glints of fire—fires bright and steady, burning in rows like blast furnaces;
                        fires lone and isolated, unwinking like planets, or twinkling like stars;
                        rows of little fires marking the margin of
                        the lowest level of the crater; fire molten in deep crevasses; fire in wavy lines; fire, calm, stationary, and
                        restful: an incandescent lake two miles in length beneath a deceptive crust
                        of darkness, and whose depth one dare not fathom even in thought. Broad in
                        the glare, giving light enough to read by at a distance of three-quarters of
                        a mile, making the moon look as blue as an ordinary Engilish sky, its golden
                        gleam changed to a vivid rose colour, lighting up the whole of the vast
                        precipices of that part of the crater with a rosy red, bringing out every
                        detail here, throwing cliffs and heights into huge black masses there,
                        rising, falling, never intermitting, leaping in lofty jets with glorious
                        shapes like wheatsheaves, coruscating, reddening, the most glorious thing
                        beneath the moon was the fire-fountain of Mokuaweoweo.
                    By day the cooled crust of the lake had looked black and even sooty, with a
                        fountain of molten gold playing upwards from it; by night it was all
                        incandescent, with black blotches of cooled scum upon it, which were
                        perpetually being devoured. The centre of the lake was at a white heat, and
                        waves of white hot lava appeared to be wallowing there as in a whirlpool,
                        and from this centre the fountain rose, solid at its base, which is
                        estimated at 150 feet in diameter, but thinning and frittering as it rose
                        high into the air, and falling from the great altitude to which it attained,
                        in fiery spray, which made a very distinct clatter on the fiery surface
                        below. When one jet was about half high, another rose so as to keep up the
                            action without intermission; and in
                        the lower part of the fountain two subsidiary curved jets of great volume
                        continually crossed each other. So, “alone in its glory,” perennial,
                        self-born, springing up in sparkling light, the fire-fountain played on as
                        the hours went by.
                    From the nearer margin of this incandescent lake there was a mighty but
                        deliberate overflow, a “silent tide” of fire, passing to the lower level,
                        glowing under and amidst its crust, with the brightness of metal passing
                        from a furnace. In the bank of partially cooled and crusted lava which
                        appears to support the lake, there were rifts showing the molten lava
                        within. In one place heavy white vapour blew off in powerful jets from the
                        edge of the lake, and elsewhere there were frequent jets and ebullitions of
                        the same, but there was not a trace of vapour over the burning lake itself.
                        The crusted large area, with its blowing cones, blotches and rifts of fire,
                        was nearly all visible, and from the thickness and quietness of the crust it
                        was obvious that the ocean of lava below was comparatively at rest, but a
                        dark precipice concealed a part of the glowing and highly agitated lake,
                        adding another mystery to its sublimity.
                    It is probable that the whole interior of this huge dome is fluid, for the
                        eruptions from this summit crater do not proceed from its filling up and
                        running over, but from the mountain sides being unable to bear the enormous
                        pressure; when they give way, high or low, and bursting, allow the fiery
                        contents to escape. So, in 1855, the mountain side split open, and the lava
                        gushed forth for thirteen months in a
                        stream which ran for 60 miles, and flooded Hawaii for 300 square miles.*
                    From the camping ground, immense cracks parallel with the crater, extend for
                        some distance, and the whole of the compact grey stone of the summit is much
                        fissured. These cracks, like the one by which our tent was pitched, contain
                        water resting on ice. It shows the extreme difference of climate on the two
                        sides of Hawaii, that while vegetation straggles up to a height of 10,000
                        feet on the windward side in a few miserable blasted forms, it absolutely
                        ceases at a height of 7,000 feet on the leeward.
                    It was too cold to sit up all night; so by the “fire light” I wrote the
                        enclosed note to you with fingers nearly freezing on the pen, and climbed
                        into the tent.
                    It is possible that tent life in the East, or in the Rocky Mountains, with
                        beds, tables, travelling knick-knacks of all descriptions, and servants who
                        study their master's whims, may be very charming; but my experience of it
                        having been of the make-shift and non-luxurious kind, is not delectable. A
                        wooden saddle, without stuffing, mnade a very fair pillow; but the ridges of
                        the lava were severe. I could not spare enough blankets to soften them, and
                        one particularly intractable point persisted in making itself felt. I
                        crowded on everything attainable, two pairs of gloves, with Mr. Gilman's
                        socks over them, and a thick plaid muffled up my face. Mr. Green and the
                        natives, buried in blankets, occupied the other part of the tent. The
                        phrase, “sleeping on the brink of a 
                            vol-
                            volcano
                        
                        * Since white
                            men have inhabited the islands, there have been ten recorded eruptions
                            from the ciraters of Mauna Loa, and one from Hualalai. cano,” was literally true, for I fell asleep, and
                        fear I might have been prosaic enough to sleep all night, had it not been
                        for fleas which had come up in the camping blankets. When I woke, it was
                        light enough to see that the three muffled figures were all asleep, instead
                        of spending the night in shiverings and vertigo, as it appears that others
                        have done. Doubtless the bathing of our heads several times with snow and
                        ice-water had been beneficial.
                    Circumstances were singular. It was a strange thing to sleep on a lava-bed at
                        a height of nearly 14,000 feet, far away from the nearest dwelling, “in a
                        region,” as Mr. Jarves says, “rarely visited by man,” hearing all the time
                        the roar, clash, and thunder of the mightiest volcano in the world. It
                        seemed all a wild dream, as that majestic sound moved on. There were two
                        loud reports, followed by a prolonged crash, occasioned by parts of the
                        crater walls giving way; vibrating runblings, as if of earthquakes; and then
                        a louder surging of the fiery ocean, and a series of most imposing
                        detonations. Creeping over the sleeping forms, which never stirred even
                        though I had to kneel upon one of the natives while I untied the flap of the
                        tent, I crept cautiously into the crevasse
                        in which the snow-water was then hard frozen, and out upon the projecting
                        ledge. The four hours in which we had previously watched the volcano had
                        passed like one; but the lonely hours which followed might have been two
                        minutes or a year, for time was obliterated.
                    Coldly the Pole-star shivered above the frozen summit, and a blue moon,
                        nearly full, withdrew her faded light into
                        infinite space. The Southern Cross had set. Two peaks below the Pole-star,
                        sharply defined against the sky, were the only signs of any other world than
                        the world of fire and mystery around. It was light, broadly, vividly light;
                        the sun himself, one would have thought, might look pale beside it. But such
                        a light! The silver index of my thermometer, which had fallen to 23°
                        Fahrenheit, was ruby red; that of the aneroid, which gave the height at
                        13,803 feet (an error of 43 feet in excess), was the same. The white duck of
                        the tent was rosy, and all the crater walls and the dull-grey ridges which
                        he around were a vivid rose red.
                    All Hawaii was sleeping. Our Hilo friends looked out the last thing; saw the
                        glare, and probably wondered how we were “getting on,” high up among the
                        stars. Mine were the only mortal eyes which saw what is perhaps the grandest
                        spectacle on earth. Once or twice I felt so overwhelmed by the very
                        sublimity of the loneliness, that I turned to the six animals, which stood
                        shivering in the north wind, without any consciousness than that of cold,
                        hunger, and thirst. It was some relief even to pity them, for pity was at
                        least a human feeling, and a momentary rest from the thrill of the new
                        sensations inspired by the circumstances. The moon herself looked a wan
                        unfamiliar thing—not the same moon which floods the palm and mango groves of
                        Hilo with light and tenderness. And those palm and mango groves, and lighted
                        homes, and seas, and ships, and cities, and faces of friends, and all
                        familiar things, and the day before, and the years before, were as things in
                        dreams, coming up out of a vanished past.
                        And would there ever be another day, and would the earth ever be young and
                        green again, and would men buy and sell and strive for gold, and should I
                        ever with a human voice tell living human beings of the things of this
                        midnight? How far it was from all the world, uplifted above love, hate, and
                        storms of passion, and war, and wreck of thrones, and dissonant clash of
                        human thought, serene in the eternal solitudes!
                    Things had changed, as they change hourly in craters. The previous loud
                        detonations were probably connected with the evolutions of some “blowing
                        cones,” which were now very fierce, and throwing up lava at the
                        comparatively dead end of the crater. Lone stars of fire broke out
                        frequently through the blackened crust. The molten river, flowing from the
                        incandescent lake, had advanced and broadened considerably. That lake
                        itself, whose diameter has been estimated at 800 feet, was rose-red and
                        self-illuminated, and the increased noise was owing to the increased force
                        of the fire-fountain, which was playing regularly at a height of 300 feet,
                        with the cross fountains, like wheat-sheaves, at its lower part. These
                        cross-fountains were the colour of a mixture of blood and fire, and the
                        lower part of the perpendicular jets was the same; but as they rose and
                        tlhinned, this colour passed into a vivid rose-red, and the spray and
                        splashes were as rubies and flame mingled. For ever falling in fiery masses
                        and fiery foam: accompanied by a thunder-music of its own: companioned only
                        by the solemn stars: exhibiting no other token of its glories to man than
                        the reflection of its fires on mist and smoke; it burns for the Creator's eye alone. No foot of mortal can
                        approach it.
                    Hours passed as I watched the indescribable glories of the fire-fountain, its
                        beauty of form, and its radiant reflection on the precipices, eight hundred
                        feet high, which wall it in, and listened to its surges beating, and the ebb
                        and flow of its thunder-music. Then a change occurred. The jets, which for
                        long had been playing at a height of 300 feet, suddenly became quite low,
                        and for a few seconds appeared as cones of fire wallowing in a sea of light;
                        then with a roar like the sound of gathering waters, nearly the whole
                        surface of the lake was lifted up by the action of some powerful internal
                        force, and rose three times with its whole radiant mass, in one glorious,
                        upward. burst, to a height, as estimated by the surrounding cliffs, of six
                        hundred feet, while the earth trembled, and the moon and stars withdrew
                        abashed into far-off space. After this the fire-fountain played as before.
                        The cold had become intense, 11° of frost; and I crept back into the tent;
                        those words occurring to me with a new meaning, “dwelling in the light which
                        no man can approach unto.”
                    We remained in the tent till the sun had slightly warmed the air, and then
                        attempted to prepare breakfast by the fire; but no one could eat anything,
                        and the native from Waimea complained of severe headache, which shortly
                        became agonizing, and he lay on the ground moaning, and completely
                        prostrated by mountain sickness. I felt extreme lassitude, and exhaustion
                        followed the slightest effort; but the use of snow to the head produced
                            great relief. The water in our
                        canteens was hard frozen, and the keenness of the cold aggravated the
                        uncomfortable symptoms which accompany pulses at 110°. The native guide was
                        the only person capable of work, so we were late in getting off, and rode
                        four and a half hours to the camping ground, only stopping once to tighten
                        our girths. Not a rope, strap, or buckle, or any of our gear gave way, and
                        though I rode without a crupper, the breeching of a pack mule's saddle kept
                        mine steady.
                    The descent, to the riders, is ftr more trying than the ascent, owing to the
                        continued stretch of very steep declivity for eight thousand feet; but our
                        mules never tripped, and came into Ainepo as if they had not travelled at
                        all. The horses were terribly cut, both again in the a-a stream, and on the descent. It was sickening to follow
                        them, for at first they left fragments of hide and hair on the rocks, then
                        flesh, and when there was no more hide or flesh to come off their poor heels
                        and fetlocks, blood dripped on every rock, and if they stood still for a few
                        moments, every hoof left a little puddle of gore. We had all the enjoyment
                        and they all the misery. I was much exhausted when we reached the
                        camping-ground, but soon revived under the influence of food; but the poor
                        native, who was really very ill, abandoned himself to wretchedness, and has
                        only recovered to-day.
                    The belt of cloud which was all radiance above, was all drizzling fog below,
                        and we reached Ainepo in a regular Scotch mist. The ranchmen seemed rather
                        grumpy at our successful ascent, which involved the failure of all their
                        prophecies, and, indeed, we were thoroughly 
                            unsatis-
                            unsatisfactory
                         factory travellers, arriving
                        fresh and complacent, with neither adventures nor disasters to gladden
                        people's hearts. We started for this ranch seven miles further, soon after
                        dark, and arrived before nine, after the most successful ascent of Mauna Loa
                        ever made.
                    Without being a Sybarite, I certainly do prefer a comfortable pulu bed to one of ridgy lava, and the fire
                        which blazes on this broad hearth to the camp-fire on the frozen top of the
                        volcano. The worthy ranchman expected us, and has treated us very
                        sumptuously, and even Kahlélé is being regaled on Chinese sorghum. The
                        Sunday's rest, too, is a luxury, which I wonder that travellers can ever
                        forego. If one is always on the move, even very vivid impressions are hunted
                        out of the memory by the last new thing. Though I am not unduly tired, even
                        had it not been Sunday, I should have liked a day in which to recall and
                        arrange my memories of Mauna Loa before the forty-eight miles' ride to
                        Hilo.
                    This afternoon, we were sitting under the verandah talking volcanic talk,
                        when there was a loud rumbling, and a severe shock of earthquake, and I have
                        been twice interrupted in writing this letter by other shocks, in which all
                        the frame-work of the house has yawned and closed again. They say that four
                        years ago, at the time of the great “mud flow” which is close by, this house
                        was imoved several feet by an earthquake, and that all the cattle walls
                        which surround it were thrown down. The ranchman tells us that on January
                        7th and 8th, 1873, there was a sudden and tremendous outburst of Mauna Loa.
                        The ground, he says, throbbed and quivered for twenty miles; a tremendous roaring, like that of a blast
                        furnace, was heard for the same distance, and clouds of black smoke trailed
                        out over the sea for thirty miles.
                    We have dismissed our guide with encomiums. His charge was $10; but Mr. Green
                        would not allow me to share that, or any part of the expense, or pay
                        anything, but $6 for my own mule. The guide is a goat-hunter, and the chase
                        is very curiously pursued. The hunter catches sight of a flock of goats, and
                        hunts them up the mountain, till, agile and fleet of foot as they are, he
                        actually tires them out, and gets close enough to them to cut their throats
                        for the sake of their skins. If I understand rightly, this young man has
                        captured as many as seventy in a day.
                
                
                    
                        CRATER HOUSE, KILAUEA. June 9th.
                    
                    This morning Mr. Green left for Kona, and I for Kilauea; the ranchman's
                        native wife and her sister riding with me for several miles to put me on the
                        right track. Kahélé's sociable instincts are so strong, that, before they
                        left me, I dismounted, blindfolded him, and led him round and round several
                        times, a process which so successfully confused his intellects, that he
                        started off in this direction with more alacrity than usual. They certainly
                        put me on a track which could not be mistaken, for it was a narrow, straight
                        path, cut and hammered through a broad horrible a-a stream, whose jagged spikes were the height of the horse.
                        But beyond this he ten miles of pahoehoe,
                        the lava-flows of ages, with only now and then the vestige of a trail.
                    
                    Except the perilous crossing of the Hilo gulches in February, this is the
                        most difficult ride I have had—eerie and impressive in every way. The
                        loneliness was absolute. For several hours I saw no trace of human beings,
                        except the very rare print of a shod horse's hoof. It is a region for ever
                        “desolate and without inhabitant,” trackless, waterless, silent, as if it
                        had passed into the passionless calm of lunar solitudes. It is composed of
                        rough hummocks of pahoehoe, rising out of
                        a sandy desert. Only stunted ohias, loaded
                        with crimson tufts, raise themselves out of cracks: twisted, tortured
                        growths, bearing their bright blossoms under protest, driven unwillingly to
                        be gay by a fiery soil and a fiery sun. To the left, there was the high,
                        dark wall of an a-a stream; further yet, a
                        tremendous volcanic fissure, at times the bed of a fiery river, and above
                        this the towering dome of Mauna Loa, a brilliant cobalt blue, lined and
                        shaded with indigo where; innumerable lava streams had seamed his portentous
                        sides: his whole beauty the effect of atmosphere, on an object in itself
                        hideous. Ahead and to the right were rolling miles of a pahoehoe sea, bounded by the unseen Pacific
                        3,000 feet below, with countless craters, fissures emitting vapour, and all
                        other concomitants of volcanic action; bounded to the north by the vast
                        crater of Kilauea. On all this deadly region the sun poured his tropic light
                        and heat from one of the bluest skies I ever saw.
                    The direction given me on leaving Kapapala was, that after the natives left
                        me I was to keep a certain crater on the south-east till I saw the smoke of
                        Kilauea; but there were many craters. Horses cross the sand and hummocks as nearly as possible on a bee line; but
                        the lava rarely indicates that anything has passed over it, and this morning
                        a strong breeze had rippled the sand, completely obliterating the hoof-marks
                        of the last traveller, and at times I feared that losing myself, as many
                        others have done, I should go mad with thirst. I examined the sand narrowly
                        for hoof-marks, and every now and then found one, but always had the
                        disappointment of finding that it was made by an unshod horse, therefore not
                        a ridden one. Finding eyesight useless, I dismounted often, and felt with my
                        finger along the rolling lava for the slightest marks of abrasion, which
                        might show that shod animals had passed that way, got up into an ohia to look out for the smoke of Kilauea, and
                        after three hours came out upon what I here learn is the old track, disused
                        because of the insecurity of the ground.
                    It runs quite close to the edge of the crater, there 1,000 feet in depth, and
                        gives a magnificent view of the whole area, with the pit and the blowing
                        cones. But the region through which the trail led was rather an alarming
                        one, being hollow and porous, all cracks and fissures, nefariously concealed
                        by scrub and ferns. I found a place, as I thought, free from risk, and gave
                        Kahélé a feed of oats on my plaid, but before he had finished them there was
                        a rumbling and vibration, and he went into the ground above his knees, so
                        snatching up the plaid and jumping on him I galloped away, convinced that
                        that crack was following me! However, either the crack thought better cf it,
                        or Kahélé travelled faster, for in another half-hour I arrived where the
                        whole region steams, smokes, and fumes
                        with sulphur, and was kindly welcomed here by Mr. Gilman, where he and the
                        old Chinaman appear to be alone.
                    After a seven hours' ride the quiet and the log fire are very pleasant, and
                        the host is a most intelligent and sympathising listener. It is a solemn
                        night, for the earth quakes, and the sound of Halemaumau is like the surging
                        of the sea.
                
                
                    
                        HILO. June 11th.
                    
                    Once more I am among palm and mango groves, and friendly faces, and sounds of
                        softer surges than those of Kilauea. I had a dreary ride yesterday, as the
                        rain was incessant, and I saw neither man, bird, or beast the whole way.
                        Kahélé was so heavily loaded that I rode the thirty miles at a foot's pace,
                        and he became so tired that I had to walk.
                    It has been a splendid week, with every circumstance favourable, nothing
                        sordid or worrying to disturb the impressions received, kindness and
                        goodwill everywhere, a travelling companion whose consideration, endurance,
                        and calmness were beyond all praise, and at the end the cordial welcomes of
                        my Hawaiian “home.”
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXX.*
                
                    
                        RIDGE HOUSE, KONA, HAWAII. June 12.
                    
                    I LANDED in Kealakakua Bay on a black lava block, on which
                        tradition says that Captain Cook fell, struck with his death-wound, a
                        century ago. The morning sun was flaming above the walls of lava 1,000 feet
                        in height which curve round the dark bay, the green deep water rolled
                        shorewards in lazy undulations, canoes piled full of pineapples poised
                        themselves on the swell, ancient coco-palms glassed themselves in still
                        waters—it was hot, silent, tropical.
                    The disturbance which made the bay famous is known to every schoolboy; how
                        the great explorer, long supposed by the natives to be their vanished god
                            Lono, betrayed his earthly lineage by
                        groaning when he was wounded, and was then dispatched outright. A cocoanut
                        stump, faced by a sheet of copper recording the circumstance, is the great
                        circumnavigator's monument. A few miles * Several letters are omitted here, as they
                            contain repetitions of journey and circumstances which have been amply
                            detailed before. I went to the Kona district for a few days only,
                            intending to return to friends on Kauai and Maui; but owing to an
                            alteration in the sailings of the Kilauea, was detained
                            there for a month, and afterwards, owing to uncertainties connected with
                            the San Francisco steamers, was obliged to leave the Islands abruptly,
                            after a residence of nearly seven months. beyond, is the enclosure of Haunaunau, the City
                        of Refuge for western Hawaii. In this district there is a lava road ascribed
                        to Umi, a legendary king, who is said to have lived 500 years ago. It is
                        very perfect, well defined on both sides with kerb-stones, and greatly
                        resembles the chariot ways in Pompeii. Near it are several structures formed
                        of four stones, three being set upright, and the fourth forming the roof, In
                        a northerly direction is the place where Liholiho, the king who died in
                        England, excited by drink and the persuasions of Kaahumanu, broke tabu, and made an end of the superstitions of
                        heathenism. Not far off is the battle field on which the adherents of the
                        idols rallied their forces against the iconoclasts, and were miserably and
                        finally defeated. Recent lava streams have descended on each side of the
                        bay, and from the bare black rock of the landing a flow may be traced up the
                        steep ascent as far as a precipice, over which it falls in waves and twists,
                        a cataract of stone. A late lava river passed through the magnificent forest
                        on the southerly slope, and the impressions of the stems of coco and fan
                        palms are stamped clearly on the smooth rock. The rainfall in Kona is heavy,
                        but there is no standing water, and only one stream in a distance of 100
                        miles.
                    This district is famous for oranges, coffee, pineapples, and silence. A
                        flaming palm-fringed shore with a prolific strip of table land 1,500 feet
                        above it, a dense timber belt eight miles in breadth, and a volcano smoking
                        somewhere between that and the heavens, and glaring through the trees at
                        night, are the salient points of Kona if 
                            any-
                            anything
                         thing about it be salient. It is
                        a region where falls not 
                            “. . . Hail or any snow,
                            Or ever wind blows loudly.”
                         Wind indeed, is a thing unknown. The scarcely audible whisper of soft
                        airs through the trees morning and evening, rain drops falling gently, and
                        the murmur of drowsy surges far below, alone break the stillness. No ripple
                        ever disturbs the great expanse of ocean which gleams through the still,
                        thick trees. Rose in the sweet cool morning, gold in the sweet cool evening,
                        but always dreaming; and white sails come and go, no larger than a
                        butterfly's wing on the horizon, of ships drifting on ocean currents,
                        dreaming too! Nothing surely can ever happen here: it is so dumb and quiet,
                        and people speak in hushed thin voices, and move as in a lethargy, dreaming
                        too! No heat, cold, or wind, nothing emphasised or italicised, it is truly a
                        region of endless afternoons, “a land where all things always seem the
                        same.” Life is dead, and existence is a languid swoon.
                    This is the only regular boarding house on Hawaii. The company is accidental
                        and promiscuous. The conversation consists of speculations, varied and
                        repeated with the hours, as to the arrivals and departures of the Honolulu
                        schooners Uilama and Prince, who they will bring,
                        who they will take, and how long their respective passages will be. A
                        certain amount of local gossip is also hashed up at each meal, and every
                        stranger who has travelled through Hawaii for the last ten years is picked
                        to pieces and worn threadbare, and his purse, weight, entertainers, and habits are thoroughly
                        canvassed. On whatever subject the conversation begins it always ends in
                        dollars; but even that most stimulating of all topics only arouses a languid
                        interest among my fellow dreamers. I spend most of my time in riding in the
                        forests, or along the bridle path which trails along the height, among grass
                        and frame-houses, almost smothered by trees and trailers.
                    Many of these are inhabited by white men, who, having drifted to these
                        shores, have married native women, and are rearing a dusky race, of children
                        who speak the maternal tongue only, and grow up with native habits. Some of
                        these men came for health, others landed from whalers, but of all it is true
                        that infatuated by the ease and lusciousness of this languid region, 
                            
                                “They sat them down upon the yellow sand,
                                Between the sun and moon upon the shore;
                                And sweet it was to dream of Fatherland;
                                . . . . ; but evermore
                                Most weary seem'd the sea, weary the oar,
                                Weary the wandering fields of barren foam.
                                Then some one said, “We will return no more.”
                            
                         They have enough and more, and a life free from toil, but the obvious
                        tendency of these marriages is to sink the white man to the level of native
                        feelings and habits.
                    There are two or three educated residents, and there is a small English
                        church with daily service, conducted by a resident clergyman.
                    The beauty of this part of Kona is wonderful. The interminable forest is
                        richer and greener than anything I have
                        yet seen, but penetrable only by narrow tracks which have been made for
                        hauling timber. The trees are so dense, and so matted together with
                        trailers, that no ray of noon-day sun brightens the moist tangle of
                        exquisite mosses and ferns which covers the ground. Yams with their
                        burnished leaves, and the Polypodium spectrum, wind round every tree stem,
                        and the heavy ié, which here attains
                        gigantic proportions, links the tops of the tallest trees together by its
                        stout knotted coils. Hothouse flowers grow in rank profusion round every
                        house, and tea-roses, fuchsias, geraniums fifteen feet high, Nile lilies,
                        Chinese lantern plants, begonias, lantanas, hibiscus, passion-flowers, Cape
                        jasmine, the hoya, the tuberose, the beautiful but overpoweringly sweet
                        ginger plant, and a hundred others: while the whole district is overrun with
                        the Datura brugmansia (?) here an arborescent shrub fourteen feet high,
                        bearing seventy great trumpet-shaped white blossoms at a time, which at
                        night vie with those of the night-blowing Cereus in filling the air with
                        odours.
                    Pineapples and melons grow like weeds among the grass, and everything that is
                        good for food flourishes. Nothing can keep under the redundancy of nature in
                        Kona; everything is profuse, fervid, passionate, vivified and pervaded by
                        sunshine. The earth is restless in her productiveness, and forces up her
                        hothouse growth perpetually, so that the miracle of Jonah's gourd is almost
                        repeated nightly. All decay is hurried out of sight, and through the glowing
                        year flowers blossom and fruits ripen; ferns are always uncurling their
                        young fronds and bananas unfolding their
                        great shining leaves, and spring blends her everlasting youth and promise
                        with the fulfilment and maturity of summer.
                    
                        
                            “Never comes the trader, never floats a European flag,
                            Slides the bird o'er lustrous woodland, swings the trailer from the
                                crag:
                            Droops the heavy-blossom'd bower, hangs the heavy-fruited tree—
                            Summer isles of Eden lying in dark purple spheres of sea.”
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        HUALALAI. July 28th.
                    
                    I very soon left the languid life of Kona for this sheep station, 6000 feet
                        high on the desolate slope of the dead volcano of Hualalai, (“offspring of
                        the shining sun,”) on the invitation of its hospitable owner, who said if I
                        “could eat his rough fare, and live his rough life, his house and horses
                        were at my disposal.” He is married to a very attractive native woman who
                        eats at his table, but does not know a word of English, but they are both
                        away at a wool-shed eight miles off, shearing sheep.
                    This house is in the great volcanic wilderness of which I wrote from
                        Kalaieha, a desert of drouth and barrenness. There is no permanent track,
                        and on the occasions when I have ridden up here alone, the directions given
                        me have been to steer for an ox bone, and from that to a dwarf ohia. There is no coming or going; it is
                        seventeen miles from the nearest settlement, and looks across a desert
                        valley to Mauna Loa. Woody trailers, harsh hard grass in tufts, the
                        Asplenium trichomanes in rifts, the Pellea ternifolia in sand, and some
                            ohia and mamané scrub in hollow places sheltered from the wind, all
                        hard, crisp, unlovely growths, contrast with the lavish greenery below. A brisk cool wind blows all day; every
                        afternoon a dense fog brings the horizon within 200 feet, but it clears off
                        with frost at dark, and the flames of the volcano light the whole southern
                        sky.
                    My companions are an amiable rheumatic native woman, and a crone who must
                        have lived a century, much shrivelled and tattooed, and nearly childish. She
                        talks to herself in weird tones, stretches her lean limbs by the fire most
                        of the day, and in common with most of the old people has a prejudice
                        against clothes, and prefers huddling herself up in a blanket to wearing the
                        ordinary dress of her sex. There is also a dog, but he does not understand
                        English, and for some time I have not spoken any but Hawaiian words. I have
                        plenty to do, and find this a very satisfactory life.
                    I came up to within eight miles of this house with a laughing, holiday-making
                        rout of twelve natives, who rode madly along the narrow forest trail at full
                        gallop, up and down the hills, through mire and over stones, leaping over
                        the trunks of prostrate trees, and stooping under branches with loud
                        laughter, challenging me to reckless races over difficult ground, and when
                        they found that the wahine haole was not
                        to be thrown from her horse they patted me approvingly, and crowned me with
                            leis of mailé. I became acquainted with some of these at Kilauea in
                        the winter, and since I came to Kona they have been very kind to me.
                    I thoroughly like living among them, taking meals with them on their mats,
                        and eating “two fingered” poi as if I had
                        been used to it all my life. Their 
                            mirth-
                            mirthfulness
                         fulness and kindliness are most
                        winning; their horses, food, clothes, and time are all bestowed on one so
                        freely, and one lives amongst them with a most restful sense of absolute
                        security. They have many faults, but living alone among them in their houses
                        as I have done so often on Hawaii, I have never seen or encountered a
                        disagreeable thing. But the more I see of them the more impressed I am with
                        their carelessness and love of pleasure, their lack of ambition and a sense
                        of responsibility, and the time which they spend in doing nothing but
                        talking and singing as they bask in the sun, though spasmodically and under
                        excitement they are capable of tremendous exertions in canoeing,
                        surf-riding, and lassoing cattle.
                    While down below I joined three natives for the purpose of seeing this last
                        sport. They all rode shod horses, and had lassoes of ox hide attached to the
                        horns of their saddles. I sat for an hour on horseback on a rocky hill while
                        they hunted the woods; then I heard the deep voices of bulls, and a great
                        burst of cattle appeared, with hunters in pursuit, but the herd vanished
                        over a dip of the hill side, and the natives joined me. By this time I
                        wished myself safely at home, partly because my unshod horse was not fit for
                        galloping over lava and rough ground, and I asked the men where I should
                        stay to be out of danger. The leader replied, “Oh, just keep close behind
                        me!” I had thought of some safe view-point, not of galloping on an unshod
                        horse with a ruck of half-maddened cattle, but it was the safest plan, and
                        there was no time to be lost, for as we rode slowly down, we sighted the herd dodging across the open to
                        regain the shelter of the wood, and much on the alert.
                    Putting our horses into a gallop we dashed down the hill till we were close
                        up with the chase; then another tremendous gallop, and a brief wild rush,
                        the grass shaking with the surge of cattle and horses. There was much
                        whirling of tails and tearing up of the earth—a lasso spun three or four
                        times round the head of the native who rode in front of me, and almost
                        simultaneously a fine red bullock lay prostrate on the earth, nearly
                        strangled, with his foreleg noosed to his throat. The other natives
                        dismounted, and put two lassoes round his horns, slipping the first into the
                        same position, and vaulted into their saddles before he was on his legs.
                    He got up, shook himself, put his head down, and made a mad blind rush, but
                        his captors were too dexterous for him, and in that and each succeeding rush
                        he was foiled. As he tore wildly from side to side, the natives dodged under
                        the lasso, slipping it over their heads, and swung themselves over their
                        saddles, hanging in one stirrup, to aid their trained horses to steady
                        themselves as the bullock tugged violently against them. He was escorted
                        thus for a mile, his strength failing with each useless effort, his tongue
                        hanging out, blood and foam dropping from his mouth and nostrils, his flanks
                        covered with foam and sweat, till blind and staggering, he was led to a
                        tree, where he was at once stabbed, and two hours afterwards a part of him
                        was served at table. The natives were surprised that I avoided seeing his
                        death, as the native women greatly enjoy such a spectacle. This mode of killing an animal while heated and
                        terrified, doubtless accounts for the dark colour and hardness of Hawaiian
                        beef.
                    Numbers of the natives are expert with the lasso, and besides capturing with
                        it wild and half wild cattle, they catch horses with it, and since I came
                        here my host caught a sheep with it, singling out the one he wished to kill,
                        from the rest of the galloping flock with an unerring aim. It takes a whole
                        ox hide cut into strips to make a good lasso.
                    One of my native friends tells me that a native man who attended on me in one
                        of my earlier expeditions has since been “prayed to death.” One often hears
                        this phrase, and it appears that the superstition which it represents has by
                        no means died out. There are persons who are believed to have the lives of
                        others in their hands, and their services are procured by offerings of white
                        fowls, brown hogs, and awa, as well as
                        money, by any one who has a grudge against another. Several other instances
                        have been told me of persons who have actually died under the influence of
                        the terror and despair produced by being told that the kahuna was “praying them to death.” I cannot
                        learn whether these over efficacious prayers are supposed to be addressed to
                        the true God, or to the ancient Hawaiian divinities. The natives are very
                        superstitious, and the late king, who was both educated and intelligent, was
                        much under the dominion of a sorceress.
                    I have made the ascent of Hualalai twice from here, the first time guided by
                        my host and hostess, and the second time
                        rather adventurously alone. Forests of koa, sandal-wood, and ohia,
                        with an undergrowth of raspberries and ferns clothe its base, the fragrant
                            mailé, and the graceful sarsaparilla
                        vine, with its clustered coral-coloured buds, nearly smother many of the
                        trees, and in several places the heavy ié
                        forms the semblance of triumphal arches over the track. This forest
                        terminates abruptly on the great volcanic wilderness, with its starved
                        growth of unsightly scrub. But Hualalai, though 10,000 feet in height, is
                        covered with Pteris aquilina, mamané,
                        coarse bunch grass, and pukeavé to its
                        very summit, which is crowned by a small, solitary, blossoming ohia.
                    For two hours before reaching the top, the way lies over countless flows and
                        beds of lava, much disintegrated, and almost entirely of the kind called
                            pahoehoe. Countless pit craters extend
                        over the whole mountain, all of them covered outside, and a few inside, with
                        scraggy vegetation. The edges are often very ragged and picturesque. The
                        depth varies from 300 to 700 feet, and the diameter from 700 to 1,200. The
                        walls of some are of a smooth grey stone, the bottoms flat, and very deep in sand, but others resemble the tufa
                        cones of Mauna Kea. They are so crowded together in some places as to be
                        divided only by a ridge so narrow that two mules can scarcely walk abreast
                        upon it. The mountain was split by an earthquake in 1868, and a great
                        fissure, with much treacherous ground about it, extends for some distance
                        across it. It is very striking from every point of view on this side, being
                        a complete wilderness of craters, and over 150 lateral cones have been
                        counted.
                    The object of my second ascent was to visit one of the grandest of the summit
                        craters, which we had not reached previously owing to fog. This crater is
                        bordered by a narrow and very fantastic ridge of rock, in or on which there
                        is a mound about 60 feet high, formed of fragments of black, orange, blue,
                        red, and golden lava, with a cavity or blow-hole in the centre, estimated by
                        Brigham as having a diameter of 25 feet, and a depth of 1800. The interior
                        is dark brown, much grooved horizontally, and as smooth and regular as if
                        turned. There are no steam cracks or signs of heat anywhere. Superb caves or
                        lava-bubbles abound at a height of 6000 feet. These are moist with ferns,
                        and the drip from their roofs is the water supply of this porous region.
                    Hualalai, owing to the vegetation sparsely sprinkled over it, looks as if it
                        had been quiet for ages, but it has only slept since 1801, when there was a
                        tremendous eruption from it, which flooded several villages, destroyed many
                        plantations and fishponds, filled up a deep bay 20 miles in extent, and
                        formed the present coast. The terrified inhabitants threw living hogs into
                        the stream, and tried to propitiate the anger of the gods by more costly offerings, but without effect, till King
                        Kamehameha, attended by a large retinue of priests and chiefs, cut off some
                        of his hair, which was considered sacred, and threw it into the torrent,
                        which in two days ceased to run. This circumstance gave him a greatly
                        increased ascendancy, from his supposed influence with the deities of the
                        volcanoes.
                    I have explored the country pretty thoroughly for many miles round, but have
                        not seen anything striking, except the remains of an immense heiau in the centre of the desert tableland,
                        said to have been built in a day by the compulsory labour of 25,000 people:
                        a lonely white man who lives among the lava, and believes he has discovered
                        the secret of perpetual motion: and the lava-flow from Mauna Loa, which
                        reached the sea 40 miles from its exit from the mountain.
                    I was riding through the brushwood with a native, and not able to see two
                        yards in any direction, when emerging from the thick scrub, we came upon the
                        torrent of 1859 within six feet of us, a huge, straggling, coal-black river,
                        broken up into streams in our vicinity, but on the whole, presenting an
                        iridescent uphill expanse a mile wide. We had reached one of the divergent
                        streams to which it had been said after its downward course of 9000 feet,
                        “Hitherto shalt thou come and no further,” while the main body had pursued
                        its course to the ocean. Whatever force impelled it had ceased to act, and
                        the last towering wave of fire had halted just there, and lies a black
                        arrested surge 10 feet high, with tender ferns at its feet, and a scarcely
                        singed ohia bending over it. The flow, so
                        far as we scrambled up it, is heaped in great surges of a fierce black, fiercely reflecting the
                        torrid sun, cracked, and stained yellow and white, and its broad glistening
                        surface forms an awful pathway to the dome-like crest of Mauna Loa, now
                        throbbing with internal fires, and crowned with a white smoke wreath, that
                        betokens the action of the same forces which produced this gigantic
                        inundation. Close to us the main river had parted above and united below a
                        small mamané tree with bracken under its
                        shadow, and there are several oases of the same kind.
                    I have twice been down to the larger world of the woolshed, when tired of
                        strips of dried mutton and my own society. The hospitality there is as great
                        as the accommodation is small. The first time, I slept on the floor of the
                        shed with some native women who were up there, and was kept awake all night
                        by the magnificence of the light on the volcano. The second time, several of
                        us slept in a small, dark grass-wigwam, only intended as a temporary
                        shelter, the lowliest dwelling in every sense of the word that I ever
                        occupied. That evening was the finest I have seen on the islands; there was
                        a less abrupt transition from day to night, and the three great mountains
                        and the desert were etherealised and glorified by a lingering rose and
                        violet light. When darkness came on, our great camp fire was hardly redder
                        than the glare from the volcano, and its leaping flames illuminated as
                        motley a group as you would wish to see; the native shearers, who, after
                        shearing eighty sheep each in a day, washed, and changed their clothes
                        before eating; a negro goatherd with a native wife and swarthy children, two
                        native women, my host and myself, all engaged in the rough cooking befitting
                        the region, toasting strips of jerked
                        mutton on sticks, broiling wild bullock on the coals, baking kalo under ground, and rolls in a rough stone
                        oven, and all speaking that base mixture of English and Hawaiian which is
                        current coin here. The meal was not less rude than the cookery. We ate it on
                        the floor of the wigwam, with an old tin, with some fat in it, for a lamp,
                        and a bit of rope for a wick, which kept tumbling into the fat and leaving
                        us in darkness.
                    The next day I came up here alone, driving a packhorse, and with a
                        hind-quarter of sheep tied to my saddle. It is really difficult to find the
                        way over this desert, though I have been several times across. When a breeze
                        ripples the sand between the lava hummocks, the footprints are obliterated,
                        and there are few landmarks except the “ox bone” and the “small ohia.” It is a strange life up here on the
                        mountain side, but I like it, and never yearn after civilization. The one
                        drawback is my ignorance of the language, which not only places me sometimes
                        in grotesque difficulties, but deprives me of much interest. I don't know
                        what day it is, or how long I have been here, and quite understand how
                        possible it would be to fall into an indolent and aimless life, in which
                        time is of no account.
                
                
                    
                        THE RECTORY, KONA. August 1st.
                    
                    I left Hualalai yesterday morning, and dined with my kind host and hostess in
                        the wigwam. It was the last taste of the wild Hawaiian life I have learned
                        to love so well, the last meal on a mat, the last exercise of skill in
                        eating “two-fingered” poi. I took leave
                        gratefully of those who had been so truly kind to me, and with the friendly aloha from kindly lips in my ears, regretfully left the
                        purple desert in which I have lived so serenely, and plunged into the forest
                        gloom. Half way down, I met a string of my native acquaintances, who, as the
                        courteous custom is, threw over me leis of
                            mailé and roses, and since I arrived
                        here, others have called to wish me good bye, bringing presents of figs,
                        cocoa-nuts and bananas.
                    This is one of the stations of the “Honolulu Mission,” and Mr. Davies, the
                        clergyman, has, besides Sunday and daily services, a day-school for boys and
                        girls. The Sunday attendance at church, so far as I have seen, consists of
                        three adults, though the white population within four miles is considerable,
                        and at another station on Maui, the congregation was composed solely of the
                        family of a planter. Clerical reinforcements are expected from England
                        shortly; but from what I have seen and heard everywhere, I do not think that
                        the coming clergy, even if inspired by the same devotion and
                        disinterestedness as Bishop Willis, will make any sensible progress among
                        the people.
                    In truth, I believe that the “Honolulu Mission,” from the first, has been a
                        mistake. As such, strictly speaking, there is no room for it, for all the
                        natives are nominal Christians, and are connected more or less with the
                        Congregational denomination. To attempt to proselytize them to the English
                        Church, or to unsettle their religious relations in any way, would, on the
                        whole, be a hopeless, as well as an invidious task, and would not improbably
                        result in driving some among them into the greater apparent unity of the
                        Church of Rome. Those who believe in the oneness of the invisible church,
                        and that all who hold “one Lord, one
                        faith, one baptism,” are within the pale of salvation, may well hesitate
                        before expending energy, men, money, and time on proselytizing efforts.
                    Among the whites who have sunk into the mire of an indolent and godless, if
                        not an openly immoral life, there is an undoubted field for Evangelistic
                        effort; but it is very doubtful, I think, whether this class can be reached
                        by services which appeal to higher culture and instincts than it possesses,
                        and, indeed, generally, the island Episcopalians are not in sympathy with
                        the “symbolism” and “high ritual” which from the first have been outstanding
                        features of this “mission.” The education of the young in the principles of
                        the Prayer Book is aimed at by the Bishop and his coadjutors, but in spite
                        of zeal and devotion, I doubt whether the English Church on these islands
                        can ever be anything but a pining and sickly exotic.
                    Kona looks supremely beautiful, a languid dream of all fair things. Yet truly
                        my heart warms to nothing so much as to a row of fat English cabbages which
                        grow in the rectory garden, with a complacent, self-asserting John Bullism
                        about them. It is best to leave the islands now. I love them better every
                        day, and dreams of Fatherland are growing fainter in this perfumed air and
                        under this glittering sky. A little longer, and I too should say, like all
                        who have made their homes here under the deep banana shade,— 
                            
                                “We will return no more,
                                . . . . our island home
                                Is far beyond the wave, we will no longer roam.”
                            
                        
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                LETTER XXXI.
                
                    
                        HAWAIIAN HOTEL, HONOLULU. August 6th.
                    
                    MY fate is lying at the wharf in the shape of the Pacific
                        Mail Steamer Costa Rica, and soon to me Hawaii-nei will be but
                        a dream. “Summer isles of Eden!” My heart warms towards them as I leave
                        them, for they have been more like home than any part of the world since I
                        left England. The moonlight is trickling through misty algarobas, and
                        feathery tamarinds and palms, and shines on glossy leaves of breadfruit and
                        citron; a cool breeze brings in at my open doors the perfumed air and the
                        soft murmur of the restful sea, and this beautiful Honolulu, whose lights
                        are twinkling through the purple night, is at last, as it was at first,
                        Paradise in the Pacific, a bright blossom of a summer sea.
                    I shall be in the Rocky Mountains before you receive my hastily-written reply
                        to your proposal to come out here for a year, but I will add a few reasons
                        against it, in addition to the one which I gave regarding the benefit which
                        I now hope to derive from a change to a more stimulating climate. The
                        strongest of all is, that if we were to stay here for a year, we should just
                        sit down “between the sun and moon upon the shore,” and forget “our island home,” and be content to fall “asleep
                        in a half dream,” and “return no more!”
                    Of course you will have gathered from my letters that there are very many
                        advantages here. Indeed, the mosquitoes of the leeward coast, to whose
                        attacks one becomes inured in a few months, are the only physical drawback.
                        The open-air life is most conducive to health, and the climate is absolutely
                        perfect, owing to its equability and purity. Whether the steady heat of
                        Honolulu, the languid airs of Hilo, the balmy breezes of Onomea, the cool
                        bluster of Waimea, or the odorous stillness of Kona, it is always the same.
                        The grim gloom of our anomalous winters, the harsh malignant winds of our
                        springs, and the dismal rains and overpowering heats of our summers, have no
                        counterpart in the endless spring-time of Hawaii.
                    Existence here is unclogged and easy, a small income goes a long way, and the
                        simplicity, refinement, kindliness, and sociability of the foreign
                        residents, render society very pleasant. The life here is truer, simpler,
                        kinder, and happier than ours. The relation between the foreign and native
                        population is a kindly and happy one, and the natives, in spite of their
                        faults, are a most friendly and pleasant people to live among. With a
                        knowledge of their easily-acquired language, they would be a ceaseless
                        source of interest, and every white resident can have the satisfaction of
                        helping them in their frequent distresses and illnesses.
                    The sense of security is a very special charm, and one enjoys it as well in
                        lonely native houses, and solitary days
                        and nights of travelling, as in the foreign homes, which are never locked
                        throughout the year. There are no burglarious instincts to dread, and there
                        is no such thing as “a broken sleep of fear beneath the stars.” The person
                        and property of a white man are everywhere secure, and a white woman is sure
                        of unvarying respect and kindness.
                    There are no inevitable hardships. The necessaries, and even the luxuries of
                        civilization can be obtained everywhere, and postal communication with
                        America is now regular and rapid.
                    When I began this letter, a long procession of counterbalancing disadvantages
                        passed through my mind, but they become “beautifully less” as I set them
                        down in black and white. If I put gossip first, it is because I seriously
                        think that it is the canker of the foreign society on the islands. Its
                        extent and universality are grotesque and amusing to a stranger, but to live
                        in it, and share in it, and learn to enjoy it, would be both lowering and
                        hurtful, and you can hardly be long here without being drawn into its
                        vortex. By gossip I don't mean scandal or malignant
                        misrepresentations, or reports of petty strifes, intrigues, and jealousies,
                        such as are common in all cliques and communities, but nuhou, mere tattle, the perpetual talking about
                        people, and the picking to tatters of every item of personal detail, whether
                        gathered from fact or imagination.
                    A great deal of this is certainly harmless, and in some measure arises from
                        the intimate friendly relations which exist between the scattered families,
                        but over-indulgence in it destroys the
                        privacy of individual existence, and is deteriorating in more ways than one.
                        From the north of Kauai to the south of Hawaii, everybody knows every other
                        body's affairs, income, expenditure, sales, purchases, debts, furniture,
                        clothing, comings, goings, borrowings, lendings, letters, correspondents,
                        and every thing else: and when there is nothing new to relate on any one of
                        these prolific subjects, supposed intentions afford abundant matter for
                        speculation. All gossip is focussed here, being imported from every other
                        district, and re-exported, with additions and embellishments, by every
                        inter-island mail. The ingenuity with which nuhou is circulated is worthy of a better cause.
                    Some disadvantages arise from the presence on the islands of heterogeneous
                        and ill-assorted nationalities. The Americans, of course, predominate, and
                        even those who are Hawaiian born, have, as elsewhere, a strongly national
                        feeling. The far smaller English community hangs together in a somewhat
                        cliquish fashion, and possibly cherishes a latent grudge against the
                        Americans for their paramount influence in island affairs. The German
                        residents, as everywhere, are cliquish too. Then, since the establishment of
                        the Honolulu Mission, church feeling has run rather high, and here, as
                        elsewhere, has a socially divisive tendency. Then there are drink and
                        anti-drink, pro and anti-missioniary, and pro and anti-reciprocity-treaty
                        parties, and various other local naggings of no interest to you.
                    The civilization is exotic, and owing to various circumstances, the
                        government and constitution are too 
                            experi-
                            experimental
                         mental and provisional in their
                        nature, and possess too few elements of permanence to engross the profound
                        interest of the foreign residents, although for reasons of policy they are
                        well inclined to sustain a barbaric throne. In spite of a king and court,
                        and titles and officials without number, and uniforms stiff with gold lace,
                        and Royal dinner parties with menus
                        printed on white silk, Americans, Republicans in feeling, really “run” the
                        government, and in state affairs there is a taint of that combination of
                        obsequious and flippant vulgarity, which none deplore more deeply than the
                        best among the Americans themselves.
                    It is a decided misfortune to a community to be divided in its national
                        leanings, and to have no great fusing interests within or without itself,
                        such as those which knit vigorous Victoria to the mother country, or distant
                        Oregon to the heart of the Republic at Washington. Except sugar and dollars,
                        one rarely hears any subject spoken about with general interest. The
                        downfall of an administration in England, or any important piece of national
                        legislation, arouses almost no interest in American society here, and the
                        English are ostentatiously apathetic regarding any piece of intelligence
                        specially absorbing to Americans. The papers pick up every piece of gossip
                        which drifts about the islands, and snarl with much wordiness over local
                        matters, but crowd into a small space the movements which affect the masses
                        of mankind, and in the absence of a telegraph one hardly feels the beat of
                        the pulses of the larger world. Those intellectual movements of the West
                        which might provoke discussion and
                        conversation are not cordially entered into, partly owing to the difference
                        in theological beliefs, and partly from an indolence born of the climate,
                        and the lack of mental stimulus.
                    After all, the gossip and the absence of large interests shared in common,
                        are the only specialities which can be alleged against Hawaii, and I have
                        never seen people among whom I should so well like to live. The ladies are
                        most charming, essentially womanly, and fulfil all domestic and social
                        duties in a way worthy of imitation everywhere. The kindness and
                        hospitality, too, are unbounded, and these cover “a multitude of sins.”
                    There are very few strangers here now. It is the “dead season.” I have met
                        with none except Mr. Nordhoff, who is writing on the islands for
                            Harper's Monthly, and his charming wife and children. She
                        is a most expert horsewoman, and has adopted the Mexican saddle even in
                        Honolulu, where few foreign ladies ride “cavalier fashion.”
                    My friends all urge me to write on Hawaii, on the ground that I have seen the
                        islands and lived the island life so thoroughly; but possibly they expect
                        more indiscriminate praise than I could conscientiously bestow!
                    Honolulu is in the midst of the epidemic of letter writing which sets in on
                        the arrival of the steamer from “the coast,” and people walk and drive as if
                        they really had business on hand: and the farewell visits to be made and
                        received, the pleasant presence of Mr. Thompson, and Mr. and Mrs. Severance,
                        of Hilo, and the hasty doing of things which have been left to the last,
                            make me a sharer in the spasmodic
                        bustle, which, were it permanent, would metamorphose this dreamy, bowery,
                        tropical capital. The undeserved and unexpected kindness shown me here, as
                        everywhere on these islands, renders my last impressions even more
                        delightful than my first. The people are as genial as their own sunny skies,
                        and in more frigid regions I shall never sigh for the last without longing
                        for the first. . . .
                
                
                    
                        S.S. COSTA RICA. August 7th.
                    
                    We sailed for San Francisco early this afternoon. Everything looked the same
                        as when I landed in January, except that many of the then strange faces
                        among the radiant crowd are now the faces of friends, that I know nearly
                        everyone by sight, and that the pathos of farewell blended with every look
                        and word. The air still rang with laughter and alohas, and the rippling music of the Hawaiian tongue;
                        bananas and pineapples were still piled in fragrant heaps; the drifts of
                        surf rolled in, as then, over the barrier reef, canoes with outriggers still
                        poised themselves on the blue water; the coral divers still plied their
                        graceful trade, and the lazy ripples still flashed in light along the
                        palm-fringed shore. The head-ropes were let go, we steamed through the
                        violet channel into the broad Pacific, Lunalilo, who came out so far with
                        Chief Justice Allen, returned to the shore, and when his kindly aloha was spoken, the last link with the
                        islands was severed, and half an hour later Honolulu was out of
                        sight.....
                    
                    ....The breeze is freshening, and the Costa Rica's head lies
                        nearly due north. The sun is sinking, and on the far horizon the summit
                        peaks of Oahu gleam like amethysts on a golden sea. Farewell for ever, my
                        bright tropic dream! Aloha nui to
                        Hawaii-nei!
                
                
                    I.L.B.
                
            
            
                
                A CHAPTER ON HAWAIIAN AFFAIRS.
                A FEW facts concerning the Hawaiian islands may serve to
                    supplement the deficiencies of the foregoing letters. The group is an hereditary
                    and constitutional monarchy. There is a house of nobles appointed by the Crown,
                    which consists of twenty members. The House of Representatives consists of not
                    less than twenty-four, or more than forty members elected biennially. The
                    Legislature fixes the number, and apportions the same. The Houses sit together,
                    and constitute the Legislative Assembly. The property qualification for a
                    representative is, real estate worth $500, or an annual income of $250 from
                    property, and that for an elector is an annual income of $75. The Legislators
                    are paid, and the expense of a session is about $15,000. There are three cabinet
                    ministers appointed by the Crown, of the Interior, Finance, and Foreign Affairs
                    respectively, and an Attorney-General, who may be regarded as a minister of
                    justice. There is a Supreme Court with a Chief Justice and two associate
                    justices, and there are circuit and district judges on all the larger islands,
                    as well as sheriffs, prisons, and police. There is a standing army of sixty men,
                    mainly for the purposes of guard duty, and rendering assistance to the
                    police.
                
                The question of “how to make ends meet” sorely exercises the little kingdom. All
                    sorts of improvements involving a largely increased outlay are continually
                    urged, while at the same time the burden of taxation presses increasingly
                    heavily, and there is a constant clamour for the removal of some of the most
                    lucrative imposts. Indeed, the Hawaiian dog, with his tax and his “tag,” is
                    seldom out of the Legislative Assembly.
                What may be termed the per capita taxes are, an
                    annual poll tax of one dollar levied on each male inhabitant between the ages of
                    seventeen and sixty, an annual road tax of two dollars upon all persons between
                    seventeen and fifty, and an annual school tax of two dollars upon all persons
                    between twenty-one and sixty. There is a direct tax upon property of ½ per cent.
                    upon its valuation, and specific taxes of a dollar on every horse above two
                    years old, and a dollar and a half on each dog. Of the $206,000 raised by
                    internal taxes during the last biennial period, the horses paid $50,000, the
                    mules $6,000, and the dogs $19,000!
                The indirect taxation in the shape of customs' duties amounted to $350,000 in the
                    same period. The poor Hawaiian does not know the blessing of a “Free Breakfast
                    Table.”
                The islands are large importers. The value of imported goods paying duties was
                    $1,437,000 in 1873, on which the Hawaiian Treasury received $198,000 as customs'
                    duties. Twenty-five thousand dollars' worth of ale, porter, and light wines, and
                    thirty thousand dollars' worth of spirits, show that the foreign population of
                        6,000 is more than stufficiently bibulous.
                    The Chianamen, about 2,000 in number, are, or ought to be, responsible for
                    $13,000 worth of opium; and the $34,000 worth of tobacco and cigars is doubtless
                    distributed pretty equally over all the nationalities. Twenty-one thousand
                    gallons of spirits were imported in 1873. The licences to sell spirits brought
                    $18,000 dollars into the treasury in the last biennial period, but those for the
                    sale of awa and opium brought in $55,000
                    during the same time. These licences are confined to Honolulu.
                There are two interesting items of customs receipts, a sum of $924, the proceeds
                    of a per capita tax of two dollars levied on
                    passengers landing on1 the islands, for the support of the Queen's Hospital, and
                    a sum of $1,477, the proceeds of a tax levied on seamen for the support of the
                    Marine Hospital. There is a sum of $700 for passports, as no Hawaiian or
                    stranger can leave the kingdom without an official permit.
                There are 58 vessels registered under the Hawaiian flag, of which 40 are
                    coasters, and 18 engaged in foreign freighting and whaling.
                The value of domestic exports in 1873 was $1,725,507. Among these are bananas,
                    pineapples, pulu, cocoanuts, oranges, limes,
                    sandal-wood, tamarinds, betel leaves, shark's fins, paiai, whale oil, sperm oil, cocoanut oil, and whalebone. Among
                    other commodities there was exported, of coffee 262,000 lbs., of fungus 57,000
                    lbs., of pea nuts 58,000 lbs., of cotton 8,000 lb., of rice 941,000 lbs. of
                    paddy 507,000 lbs., of hides 20,000 packages, of goat skins 66,000, of horns
                    13,000, and of tallow 609,000 lbs.
                
                The expense of “keeping things going” on the islands for the two years ending
                    March 1st, 1874, amounted to $1,193,276, but this included the funeral expenses
                    of two kings, as well as of two extra sessions of the Legislature, which
                    amounted to $42,000. The decrease in the revenue for the same period amounted to
                    $45,000. The items of Hawaiian expenditure were as follows: 
                        
                            For Civil List
                            $47,689.73
                        
                        
                            Permanent Settlements, Queen
                                Emma
                            12,000.00
                        
                        
                            Legislature and Privy Council
                            15,288.50
                        
                        
                            Extra Legislative Expenses
                            19,011.87
                        
                        
                            Department of the Judiciary
                            72,245.64
                        
                        
                            Department of Foreign Affairs and
                                War
                            78,145.85
                        
                        
                            Department of the Interior
                            389,009.08
                        
                        
                            Department of Finance
                            202,117.05
                        
                        
                            Department of the
                                Attorney-General
                            97,097.00
                        
                        
                            Bureau of Public Instruction
                            49,432.40
                        
                        
                            Miscellaneous Expenditures
                            170,474.67
                        
                        
                            The balance on hand in the Treasury,
                                March lst, 1874
                            764.57
                        
                        
                            
                            $1,193,276.36
                        
                     That, under the head Finance, includes the interest on borrowed money.
                    The funded national debt is $340,000. Of this sum a portion bears no stated
                    interest, only such as may arise from the very dubious profits of the Hawaiian
                    hotel. The interest charges are 12 per cent. on $25,000, and 9 per cent. on
                    $272,000. The estimates for the present biennial period involve a large increase
                    of debt. The present financial position of the kingdom is, an increasing
                    expenditure and a decreasing revenue.
                The statistics of the Judiciary Department for the last two years present a few features of interest. There
                    were 4,000 convictions out of 5,764 cases brought before the courts, equal to a
                    fourteenth part of the population. The total number of offences in the category
                    is 125. Of these some are decidedly local. Thus, for “furnishing intoxicating
                    liquors to Hawaiians” 92 persons were punished; for “exhibition of Hula,” 10; for “selling awa without licence,” 12; for “selling opium without licence,”
                    24. It is not surprising to those who know the habits of the people, that the
                    convictions for violations of the marriage tie, though greatly diminished,
                    should reach the number of 384, while under the head “Deserting Husbands and
                    Wives,” 67 convictions are recorded. For “practising medicine without a
                    licence,” 56 persons were punished; for “furious riding,” 197; for “cruelty to
                    animals,” 37; for “gaming,” 121; for “gross cheating,” 32; for “violating the
                    Sabbath,” 61. We must remember that the returns include foreigners and Chinamen,
                    or else the reputation for “harmlessness” which Hawaiians possess would suffer
                    seriously when we read that within the last two years there were 178 convictions
                    for “assault,” 248 for “assault and battery,” 12 for “assaults with dangerous
                    weapons,” 49 for “affray,” 674 for “drunkenness,” 87 for “disturbing quiet of
                    the night,” and 13 for “murder.” Yet the number of criminal cases has largely
                    diminished, and taking civil and criminal together, there has been a decrease of
                    656 for the last biennial period, as compared with that immediately preceding
                    it.
                The administration of justice is confessedly one of the most efficient departments of Hawaiian aflairs. Chief
                    Justice Allen, both as a lawyer and a gentleman, is worthy to fill the highest
                    position in his native country (America), and the Associate Justices, as well as
                    the native and foreign judges throughout the islands, are highly esteemed for
                    honour and uprightness. I never heard an uttered suspicion of venality or
                    unfairness against anyone of them, and apparently the Judiciary Department of
                    Hawaii deserves the same confidence which we repose in our own.
                The Educational System has been carefully modelled, and is carried out with
                    tolerable efficiency. Eighty-seven per cent. of the whole school population are
                    actually at school, and the inspector of schools states that a person who cannot
                    read and write is rarely met with. Each common school is graded into two, three,
                    or four classes, according to the intelligence and proficiency of the pupils,
                    and the curriculum of study is as follows:—
                CLASS I.—Reading, mental and written arithmetic, geography, penmanship, and
                    composition.
                CLASS II.—Reading, mental arithmetic, geography, penmanship.
                CLASS III.—Reading, first principles of arithmetic, penmanship.
                CLASS IV.—Primer, use of slate and pencil.
                The youngest children are not classified until they can put letters together in
                    syllables.
                Vocal music is taught wherever competent teachers are found.
                The total sum expended on education, including the grants to “family” and other schools, is about
                    $40,000 a year.*
                It has been remarked that the rising race of Hawaiians has an increased contempt
                    for industry in the form of manual labour, and it is proposed by the Board of
                    Education that such labour shall be made a part of common school education, so
                    that on both girls and boys a desire to provide for their own wants in an honest
                    way shall be officially inculcated. There is a Government Reformatory School,
                    and industrial and family schools for both girls and boys are scattered over the
                    islands. The supply of literature in the vernacular is meagre, and few of the
                    natives have any intelligent comprehension of English.
                The group has an area of about 4,000,000 acres, of which about 200,000 may be
                    regarded as arable, and 150,000 as specially adapted for the culture of
                    sugar-cane. Sugar, the great staple production, gives employment in its
                    cultivation and manufacture to nearly 4,000 hands. Only a fifteenth part of the
                    estimated arable area is under cultivation. Over 6,000 natives are returned as
                    the possessors of Kuleanas or freeholds, but
                    many of these are heavily mortgaged. Many of the larger lands are * The schools of the
                        kingdom are as follows:— 
                            
                                
                                Number Schools.
                                Boys.
                                Girls.
                                Total.
                            
                            
                                Common Schools
                                196
                                3193
                                2329
                                5522
                            
                            
                                Government Boarding
                                    Schools
                                3
                                185
                                ....
                                185
                            
                            
                                Government Haw.-Eng. Day
                                    Schools
                                5
                                415
                                246
                                661
                            
                            
                                Subsidized Boarding
                                    Schools
                                10
                                168
                                191
                                359
                            
                            
                                Subsidized Day Schools
                                9
                                201
                                210
                                411
                            
                            
                                Independent Boarding
                                    Schools
                                3
                                14
                                62
                                76
                            
                            
                                Independent Day Schools
                                16
                                287
                                254
                                541
                            
                            
                                Total
                                242
                                4463
                                3292
                                7755
                            
                         held on lease from the
                    crown or chiefs, and there are difficulties attending the purchase of small
                    properties.
                Almost all the roots and fruits of the torrid and temperate zones can be grown
                    upon the islands, and the banana, kalo, yam,
                    sweet potato, cocoanut, breadfruit, arrowroot, sugar-cane, strawberry,
                    raspberry, whortleberry, and native apple, are said to be indigenous.
                The indigenous fauna is small, consisting only
                    of hogs, dogs, rats, and an anomalous bat which flies by day. There are few
                    insects, except such as have been imported, and these, which consist of
                    centipedes, scorpions, cockroaches, mosquitoes, and fleas, are happily confined
                    to certain localities, and the two first have left most of their venom behind
                    tlhem. A small lizard is abundant, but snakes, toads, and frogs have not yet
                    effected a landing.
                The ornithology of the islands is scanty. Domestic fowls are supposed to be
                    indigenous. Wild geese are numerous among the mountains of Hawaii, and plovers,
                    snipe, and wild ducks, are found on all the islands. A handsome owl, called the
                    owl-hawk, is common. There is a paroquet with purple feathers, another with
                    scarlet, a woodpecker with variegated plumage of red, green, and yellow, and a
                    small black bird with a single yellow feather under each wing. There are few
                    singing birds, but one of the few has as sweet a note as that of the English
                    thrush. There are very few varieties of moths and butterflies.
                The flora of the Hawaiian Islands is far
                    scantier than that of the South Sea groups, and cannot compare with that of many
                    other tropical as well as temperate regions. But all the islands are rich in
                    cryptogamous plants, of which there is an almost infinite variety.
                
                Hawaii is still in process of construction, and is subject to volcanic eruptions,
                    earthquakes, and tidal waves. Hurricanes are unknown, and thunderstorms are rare
                    and light.
                Under favourable circumstances of moisture, the soil is most prolific, and “patch
                    cultivation” in glens and ravines, as well as on mountain sides, produces
                    astonishmilg results. A Kalo patch of forty
                    square feet will support a man for a year. An acre of favourably situated land
                    will grow a thousand stems of bananas, which will produce annually ten tons of
                    fruit. The sweet potato flourishes on the most unpromising lava, where soil can
                    hardly be said to exist, and in good localities produces 200 barrels to the
                    acre. On dry light soils the Irish potato grows anyhow and anywhere, with no
                    other trouble than that of planting the sets. Most vegetable dyes, drugs, and
                    spices can be raised. Forty diverse fruits present an overflowing cornucopia.
                    The esculents of the temperate zones flourish. The coffee bush produces from
                    three to five pounds of berries the third year after planting. The average yield
                    of sugar is two and a half tons to the acre. Pineapples grow like weeds in some
                    districts, and water melons are almost a drug. The bamboo is known to grow
                    sixteen inches in a day. Wherever there is a sufficient rainfall, the earth
                    teems with plenty.
                Yet the Hawaiian Islands can hardly be regarded as a field for emigration, though
                    nature is lavish, and the climate the most delicious and salubrious in the
                    world. Farming, as we understand it, is unknown. The dearth of insectivorous
                    birds seriously affects the cultivation of a
                    soil naturally bounteous to excess. The narrow gorges in which terraced “patch
                    cultivation,” is so successful, offer no temptations to a man with the world
                    before him. The larger areas require labour, and labour is not to be had. Though
                    wheat and other cereals mature, attacks of weevil prevent their storage, and all
                    the grain and flour consumed are imported from California.
                Cacao, cinnamon, and allspice, are subject to an apparently ineradicable blight.
                    The blight which has attacked the coffee shrub is so severe, that the larger
                    plantations have been dug up, and coffee is now raised by patch culture, mainly
                    among the guava scrub which fringes the forests. Oranges suffer from blight
                    also, and some of the finest groves have been cut down. Cotton suffers from the
                    ravages of a caterpillar. The mulberry tree, which, from its rapid growth, would
                    be invaluable to silk growers, is covered with a black and white blight. Sheep
                    are at present successful, but in some localities the spread of a pestilent
                    “oat-burr” is depreciating the value of their wool. The forests, which are
                    essential to the well-being of the islands, are disappearing in some quarters,
                    owing to the attacks of a grub, as well as the ravages of cattle.
                Cocoanuts, bananas, sweet potatoes, kalo, and
                    breadfruit, the staple food of the native population, are free from blight, and
                    so are potatoes and rice. Beef cattle can be raised for almost nothing, and in
                    some districts beef can be bouilit for the cent or two per pound which pays for
                    the cutting up of the carcase. Every one can live abundantly, and without the
                    “sweat of the brow,” but few can make money, owing to the various forms of blight, the scarcity of labour, and the lack
                    of a profitable market.
                There is little healthy activity in any department of business. The whaling fleet
                    has deserted the islands. A general pilikia
                    prevails. Settlements are disappearing, valley lands are falling out of
                    cultivation, Hilo grass and guava scrub are burying the traces of a former
                    population. The natives are rapidly diminishing,* the old 
                        in-
                        industries
                    
                    * The population
                        by the last census, taken in 1872, is as follows: 
                            
                                Total number of natives in
                                    1872
                                49,044
                            
                            
                                 " " half-castes in 1872
                                2,487
                            
                            
                                 " " Chinese in 1872
                                1,938
                            
                            
                                 " " Americans in 1872
                                889
                            
                            
                                 " " Hawaiians born of foreign
                                    parents, 1872
                                849
                            
                            
                                 " " Britons in 1872
                                619
                            
                            
                                 " " Portuguese in 1872
                                395
                            
                            
                                 " " Germans in 1872
                                224
                            
                            
                                 " " French in 1872
                                88
                            
                            
                                 " " other foreigners in
                                    1872
                                364
                            
                            
                                Total population in 1872
                                56,897
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Total number of natives,
                                    including half-castes, in 1866
                                58,765
                            
                            
                                 " " " " " 1872
                                51,531
                            
                            
                                Decrease since 1866
                                7,234
                            
                         The excess of males over females is 6403 souls. 
                            AREA AND POPULATION OF EACH ISLAND.
                            
                                
                                Acres.
                                Height in Feet.
                                Population in 1872.
                            
                            
                                Hawaii
                                2,500,000
                                13,953
                                16,001
                            
                            
                                Maui
                                400,000
                                10,200
                                12,334
                            
                            
                                Oahu
                                350,000
                                3,800
                                20,671
                            
                            
                                Kauai
                                350,000
                                4,800
                                4,961
                            
                            
                                Molokai
                                200,000
                                2,800
                                2,349
                            
                            
                                Lanai
                                100,000
                                2,400
                                348
                            
                            
                                Niihau
                                70,000
                                400
                                233
                            
                            
                                Kahoolawe
                                30,000
                                400
                                —
                            
                            
                                Total
                                
                                
                                56,897
                            
                         dustries are abandoned,
                    and the inherent immorality of the race, the great outstanding cause of its
                    decay, still resists the influence of Christian teaching and example.
                An exotic civilization is having a fair trial on the Hawaiian Islands. With the
                    exception of the serious maladies introduced by foreigners in the early days,
                    and the disastrous moral influence exercised by worthless whites, they have
                    suffered none of the wrongs usually inflicted on the feebler by the stronger
                    race. The rights of the natives were in the first instance carefully secured to
                    them, and have since been protected by equal laws, righteously administered. The
                    Hawaiians have been aided towards independence in political matters, and the
                    foreigners who framed the laws and constitution, and have directed Hawaiian
                    affairs, such as Richards, Lee, Judd, Allen, and Wyllie, were men above
                    reproach; and missionary influence, of all others the most friendly to the
                    natives, has predominated for fifty years.
                The effects of missionary labour have been scarcely touched upon in the foregoing
                    letters, and here, in preference to giving any opinion of my own, I quote from
                    Mr. R.H. Dana, an Episcopalian, and a barrister of the highest standing in
                    America, well known in this country by his writings, who sums up his
                    investigations on the Sandwich Islands in the following dispassionate words: “It
                    is no small thing to say of the missionaries of the American Board, that in less
                    than forty years they have taught this whole people to read and to write, to
                    cipher and to sew. They have given them an alphabet, grammar, and dictionary;
                    preserved their language from extinction;
                    given it a literature, and translated into it the Bible, and works of devotion,
                    science, and entertainment, &c. They have established schools, reared up
                    native teachers, and so pressed their work, that now the proportion of
                    inhabitants who can read and write is greater than in New England. And whereas
                    they found these islanders a nation of half-naked savages, living in the surf
                    and on the sand, eating raw fish, fighting among themselves, tyrannized over by
                    feudal chiefs, and abandoned to sensuality, they now see them decently clothed,
                    recognizing the law of marriage, knowing something of accounts, going to school
                    and public worship more regularly than the people do at home, and the more
                    elevated of them taking part in conducting the affairs of the constitutional
                    monarchy under which they live, holding seats on the judicial bench and in the
                    legislative chambers, and filling posts in the local magistracies.”
                If space permitted, the testimony of “Mark Twain,” given in “Roughing It,” might
                    be added to the above, and the remaining missionaries may well point to the
                    visible results of their labours, with the one word Circumspice!
            
            
                
                A CHAPTER ON HAWAIIAN HISTORY.
                IN the pre-historic days of Hawaii, for 500 years, as the bards
                    sing, before Captain Cook landed, and indeed for some years afterwards, each
                    island had its king, chiefs, and internal dissensions; and incessant wars, with
                    a reckless waste of human life, kept the whole group in turmoil. Chaotic and
                    legendary as early Hawaiian history is, there is enough to show that there must
                    have been regularly organized communities on the islands for a very long period,
                    with a civilization and polity which, though utterly unworthy of Christianity,
                    were enlightened and advanced for Polynesian heathenism.
                The kingly office was hereditary, and the king's power absolute. On the different
                    islands the kings and chiefs who together constituted a privileged class,
                    admitted the priesthood to some portion of their privileges, probably with the
                    view of enslaving the people more completely through the agency of religion, and
                    held the lower classes in absolute subserviency by the most rigorous of feudal
                    systems, which included hana poalima, or
                    forced labour, and the tabu, well known
                    throughout Polynesia.
                A very interesting history begins with Kamehameha the Great, the Conqueror, or
                    the Terrible; the “Napoleon of the Pacific,” as he has been called. He united an overmastering ambition to a
                    singular gift of ruling, and without education, training, or the help of a
                    single political precedent to guide him, animated not only by the lust of
                    conquest, but by the desire to create a nationality, he subjugated every thing
                    that his canoes could reach, and fused a rabble of savages and chieftaincies
                    into a united nation, every individual of which to this day inherits something
                    of the patriotism of the Conqueror.
                His wars were by no means puny either in proportions or slaughter, as, for
                    instance, when he meditated the conquest of Kauai, his expedition included seven
                    thousand picked warriors, twenty-one schooners, forty swivels, six mortars, and
                    an abundance of ammunition! His victories are celebrated in countless mêlés or unwritten songs, which are said to be
                    marked by real poetic feeling and simplicity, and to resemble the Ossianic poems
                    in majesty and melancholy. He founded the dynasty which for seventy years has
                    stood as firmly, and exercised its functions for the welfare of the people on
                    the whole as efficiently, as any other government.
                The king was forty-five years old when, having “no more worlds to conquer,” he
                    devoted himself to the consolidation of his kingdom. He placed governors on each
                    island, directly responsible to himself, who nominated chiefs of districts,
                    heads of villages, and all petty officers; and tax-gatherers, who, for lack of
                    the art of writing, kept their accounts by a method in use in the English
                    exchequer in ancient times. He appointed a council of chiefs, with whom he
                    advised on important matters, and a council of
                    “wise men” who assisted him in framing laws, and in regulating concerns of minor
                    importance. In all matters of national importance, the governors and high chiefs
                    of the islands met with the sovereign in consultations. These were conducted
                    with great privacy, and the results were promulgated through the islands by
                    heralds whose office was hereditary.
                Kamehameha enacted statutes against theft, murder, and oppression, and though he
                    wielded oppressive and despotic authority himself, his people enjoyed a golden
                    age as compared with those that were past. The king, governors, and chiefs
                    constituted the magistracy, and there was an appeal from both chiefs and
                    governors to the king. It was usual for both parties to be heard face to face in
                    the enclosure in front of the house of the king or governor, no lawyers were
                    employed, and every man advocated his own cause, sitting cross-legged before the
                    judges. Swiftness and decision characterized the redress of grievances and the
                    administration of justice.
                Kamehamelha reduced the feudal tenure of land, which had heretofore been the
                    theory, into absolute practice, claiming for the crown the sole ownership of the
                    land, and dividing it among his followers on the conditions of tribute and
                    military service. The common people were attached to the soil and transferred
                    with it. A chief might nominate his wife, or son, or any other person to succeed
                    him in his possessions, but at his death they reverted to the king, whose order
                    was required before the testamentary wish became of any value. There were some
                    wise regulations generally applicable, concerning the planting of cocoanut trees, and a law that the
                    water should be conducted over every plantation twice a week in general, and
                    once a week during the dry season. This king constructed immense fish-ponds on
                    the sea coast, and devoted himself to commerce with such success that in one
                    year he exported $400,000 of sandalwood (felled and shipped at the cost of much
                    suffering to the common people), and on finding that a large proportion of the
                    profit had been dissipated by harbour dues at Canton, he took up the idea and
                    established harbour dues at Honolulu.
                From Vancouver Kamehameha learned of the grandeur and power of Christian nations;
                    and in the idea that his people might grow great through Christianity, he asked
                    him, in 1794, that Christian teachers might be sent from England. This request,
                    if ever presented, was disregarded, as was another made by Captain Turnbull in
                    1803, and this exceptionally great Polynesian died the year before the light of
                    the Gospel shone on Hawaiian shores.
                Some persons, it does not appear whether they were Einglish or American,
                    attempted his conversion; but the astute savage, after listening to their
                    eloquent statements of the power of faith, pressed on them as a crucial test to
                    throw themselves from the top of an adjacent precipice, making his reception of
                    their religion contingent on their arrival unhurt at its base. He built large
                        heiaus, amongst others the one at
                    Kawaihae, at the dedication of which to his favourite war god eleven human
                    sacrifices were offered. To the end he remained devoted to the state religion, and the last instances of capital
                    punishment for breaking tabu, a thraldom
                    deeply interwoven with the religious system, occurred in the last year of his
                    reign, when one man was put to death for putting on a chief's girdle, another
                    for eating of a tabooed dish, and a third for leaving a house under tabu, and entering one which was not so.
                His last prayers were to his great red-feathered god Kukailimoku, and priests
                    bringing idols crowded round him in his dying agony. His last words were
                        “Move on in my good way and”— In the death-room the high chiefs
                    consulted, and one, to testify his great grief, proposed to eat the body raw,
                    but was overruled by the majority. So the flesh was separated from the bones,
                    and they were tied up in tapa, and concealed
                    so effectually that they have never since been found. A holocaust of three
                    hundred dogs gave splendour to his obsequies. “These are our gods whom I
                    worship,” he had said to Kotzebue, while showing him one of the temples.
                    “Whether I do right or wrong I do not know, but I follow my faith, which cannot
                    be wicked, as it commands me never to do wrong.”
                Kamehameha the Great died in 1819, and his son Liholiho, who loved whisky and
                    pleasure, was peaceably crowned king in his room, and by his name. He, with the
                    powerful aid of the Queen Dowager Kaahumanu, abolished tabu, and his subjects cast away their idols, and fell into
                    indifferent scepticsm, the high priest Hewahewa being the first to light the
                    iconoclastic torch, having previously given his opinion that there was only one great akua or spirit in lani, the
                    heavens. This Kamehameha II. was the king who with his queen, died of measles in
                    London in 1824, after which the Blonde frigate was sent to restore
                    their bodies with much ceremony to Hawaiian soil.
                Kamehameha III., a minor, another son of the Conqueror, succeeded, and reigned
                    for thirty years, dividing the lands among the nobles and the people, and
                    conferring upon his kingdom an equable constitution. The law officially
                    abolishing idolatry was confirmed by him, and while complete religious
                    toleration otherwise was granted, the Christian faith was established in these
                    words:—“The religion of the Lord Jesus Christ shall continue to be the
                    established national religion of the Hawaiian Islands.” His words on July 31st,
                    1843, when the English colours, wrongfully hoisted, were lowered in favour of
                    the Hawaiian flag, are the national motto:—“The life of the land is established
                    in righteousness.” In his reign Hawaiian independence was recognised by Great
                    Britain, France, and America. His Premier for some time was Mr. Wyllie, who with
                    a rare devotion and disinterestedness devoted his life and a large fortune to
                    his adopted country.
                Kamehameha IV., a grandson of the Conqueror, succeeded him in 1854. He was a
                    patriotic prince, and strove hard to advance the civilization of his people, and
                    to arrest their decrease by reformatory and sanitary measures. He was the most
                    accomplished prince of his line, and his death in 1863, soon after that of his
                    only child, the Prince of Hawaii, was very deeply regretted. His widow, Queen Kaleleonalani, or Emma, visited
                    England after his death.
                He was succeeded by his brother, a man of a very different stamp, who was buried
                    on January 11, 1873, after a partial outbreak of the orgies wherewith the
                    natives disgraced themselves after the death of a chief in the old heathen days.
                    It is rare to meet with two people successively who hold the same opinion of
                    Kamehameha V. He was evidently a man of some talent and strong will, intensely
                    patriotic, and determined not to be a merely ornamental figure-head of a
                    government administered by foreigners in his name. He ardently desired the
                    encouragement of foreign immigration, and the opening of a free market in
                    America for Hawaiian produce. He ruled, as well as reigned, and though he
                    abrogated the constitution of 1852, and introduced several features of
                    absolutism into the government, on the whole he seems to have done well by his
                    people. He is said to have been regal and dignified, to have worked hard, to
                    have written correct state papers, and to have been capable of the deportment of
                    an educated Christian gentleman, but to have reimbursed himself for this
                    subservience to conventionality by occasionally retiring to an undignified
                    residence on the sea-shore, where he transformed himself into the likeness of
                    one of his half-clad heathen ancestors, debased himself by whisky, and revelled
                    in the hula-hula. He is said also to have been
                    so far under the empire of the old superstitions, as to consult an ancient witch
                    on affairs of importance.
                
                He died amidst the rejoicings incident to his birthday, and on the next day “lay
                    in state in the throne-room of the palace, while his ministers, his staff, and
                    the chiefs of the realm kept watch over him, and sombre kahilis waving at his head, beat a rude and silent dead-march for
                    the crowds of people, subjects and aliens, who continuously filed through the
                    apartment, for a curious farewell glance at the last of the Kamehamehas.”
                His death closed the first era of Hawaiian history, and the orderly succession of
                    one recognised dynasty. No successor to the throne had been proclaimed, and the
                    king left no nearer kin than the Princess Keelikolani, his half-sister, a lady
                    not in the line of regal descent.
                Under these novel circumstances, it devolved upon the Legislative Assembly to
                    elect by ballot “some native Alii of the
                    kingdom as successor to the throne.” The candidates were the High Chief
                    Kalakaua, the present King, and Prince Lunalilo, the late King, but the
                    “Well-Beloved,” as Lunalilo was called, was elected unanimously, amidst an
                    outburst of popular enthusiasm.
                From his high resolves and generous instincts much was expected, and the unhappy
                    failing, to which, after the most painful struggles, he succumbed, on the
                    solicitation of some bad or thoughtless foreigners, if it lessened him aught in
                    the public esteem, abated nothing of the wonderful love that was felt for
                    him.
                He died, after a lingering illness, on February 3, 1874. Although the event had
                    been expected for some time, its announcement was received with profound sorrow
                    by the whole community, while the native 
                        sub-
                        subjects
                     jects of the deceased sovereign,
                    according to ancient custom, expressed their feelings in loud wailings, which
                    echoed mournfully through the still, red air of early daylight. On the following
                    evening the body was placed on a shrouded bier, and was escorted in solemn
                    procession by the government officials and the late king's staff, to the Iolani
                    Palace, there to lie in state. It was a cloudless moonlight; not a leaf stirred
                    or bird sang, and the crowd, consisting of several thousands, opened to the
                    right and left to let the dismal death-train pass, in a stillness which was only
                    broken by the solemn tramp of the bearers.
                The next day the corpse lay in state, in all the splendour that the islands could
                    bestow, dressed in the clothes the king wore when he took the oath of office,
                    and resting on the royal robe of yellow feathers, a fathom square.* Between eight and ten thousand persons
                    passed through the palace during the morning, and foreigners as well as natives
                    wept tears of genuine grief; while in the palace grounds the wailing knew no
                    intermission, and many of the natives spent hours in reciting kanakaus in honour of the deceased. At midnight the
                    king's remains were placed in a coffin, his aged father, His Highness Kanaina,
                    who was broken-hearted for his loss, standing by. When the body was raised from
                    the feather robe, he ordered that it should be wrapped in it, and thus be
                    deposited in its resting place. * Only one robe like this remains, that which is spread over
                        the throne at the opening of Patrliament. The one buried with Lunalilo could
                        not be reproduced for one hundred thousand dollars. “He is the last of our race,” he said; “it belongs to
                    him.” The natives in attendance turned pale at this command, for the robe was
                    the property of Kekauluohi, the dead king's mother, and had descended to her
                    from her kingly ancestors.
                Averse through his life to useless parade and display, Lunalilo left directions
                    for a simple funeral, and that none of the old heathenish observances should
                    ensue upon his death. So, amidst unbounded grief, he was carried to the grave
                    with hymns and anthems, and the hopes of Hawaii were buried with him.
                He died without naming a successor, and thus for the second time within fourteen
                    months, a king came to be elected by ballot.
                The proceedings at the election of Lunalilo were marked by an order, regularity,
                    and peaceableness which reflected extreme credit on the civilization of the
                    Hawaiians, but in the subsequent period the temper of the people had
                    considerably changed, and they had been affected by influences to which some
                    allusions were made in Letter XIX.
                In politics, Lunalilo's views were essentially democratic, and he showed an
                    almost undue deference to the will of the people, giving them a year's practical
                    experience of democracy which they will never forget.
                An antagonism to the foreign residents, or rather to their political influence,
                    had grown rapidly. Some of the Americans had been unwise in their language, and
                    the discussion on the proposed cession of Pearl River increased the popular
                    discontent, and the jealousy of foreign
                    interference in island affairs. “America gave us the light,” said a native
                    pastor, in a sermon which was reported over the islands, “but now that we have
                    the light, we should be left to use it for ourselves.” This sentence represented
                    the bulk of the national feeling, which, if partially unenlightened, is
                    intensely, passionately, almost fanatically patriotic.
                The biennial election of delegates to the Legislative Assembly occurred shortly
                    before Lunalilo's death, and the rallying-cry, “Hawaii for the Hawaiians,” was
                    used with such effect that the most respectable foreign candidates, even in the
                    capital, had not a chance of success, and for the first time in Hawaiian
                    constitutional history a house was elected, consisting, with one exception, of
                    natives. Immediately on the king's death, Kalakaua, who was understood to
                    represent the foreign interest as well as the policy indicated by the popular
                    rallying-cry, and Queen Emma, came forward as candidates; the walls were
                    placarded with addresses, mass meetings were held, canvassers were busy night
                    and day, promises impossible of fulfilment were made, and for eight days the
                    Hawaiian capital presented those scenes of excitement, wrangling, and mutual
                    misrepresentation which we associate with popular elections elsewhere, and
                    everywhere.
                The day of election came, and thirty-nine votes were given for Kalakaua, and six
                    for Emma. On the announcement of this result, a hoarse, indignant roar, mingled
                    with cheers from the crowd without, was heard within the Assembly chamber, and
                    on the committee appointed to convey to Kalakaua the news of his election, attempting to take their seats in a carriage,
                    they were driven back, maimed and bleeding, into the Courthouse; the carriage
                    was torn to pieces, and the spokes of the wheels were distributed as weapons
                    among the rioters. The “gentle children of the sun” were seen under a new
                    aspect; they became furious, the latent savagery came out, the doors of the Hall
                    of Assembly were battered in, the windows were shattered with clubs and volleys
                    of stones, nine of the representatives, who were known to have voted for
                    Kalakaua, were severely injured; the chairs, tables, and furnishings of the
                    rooms were broken up and thrown out of the windows, along with valuable public
                    and private documents; kerosene was demanded to fire the buildings; the police
                    remained neutral, and conflagration and murder would have followed, had not the
                    ministers dispatched an urgent request for assistance to the United States'
                    ships of war, Portsmouth and Tuscarora, and H.B.M.
                    ship Tenedos, which was promptly met by the landing of such a force
                    of sailors and marines as dispersed the rioters.
                Seventy arrests were made, the foreign marines held possession of the Courthouse,
                    Palace, and Government offices, Kalakaua took the oath of office in private; the
                    Representatives, with bandaged heads, and arms in slings, limped, and in some
                    instances were supported, to their desks, to be liberated from their duties by
                    the king in person, and in ten days the joint protectorate was withdrawn.
                Those who know the natives best were taken by surprise, and are compelled to
                    recognise that a restive, half-sullen,
                    half-defiant spirit is abroad among them, and that the task of governing them
                    may not be the easy thing which it has been since the days of Kamehameha the
                    Great. Nor do the foreign residents, especially the Americans, feel so safe as
                    formerly, without the presence of a man-of-war in the harbour, since the people
                    of Oahu have so unexpectedly developed one of the prominent arts of civilized
                    democracy, cruel, reckless, and unreasoning mobbing.
                Of King Kalakaua, who began his reign under such unfortunate auspices, little at
                    present can be said. Island affairs have not settled down into their old
                    quietude, and party spirit, arising out of the election, has not died out among
                    the natives. The king chose his advisers wisely,. and made a concession to
                    native feeling by appointing a native named Nahaolelua to a seat in the cabinet
                    as Minister of Finance, but his first arrangement was upset, and a good deal of
                    confusion has subsequently prevailed.
                The Queen, Kapiolani, is a Hawaiian lady of high character and extreme
                    amiability, and both King and Queen have been exemplary in their domestic
                    relations.
                Kalakaua's first act was to proclaim his brother, Prince Leleiohoku, his
                    successor, investing him at the same time with the title, “His Royal Highness,”
                    and his second was to reorganize the military service, with the view of making
                    it an efficient and well-disciplined force.
                There is something melancholy in the fact that this small Pacific kingdom has to
                    fall back upon the old world resource of a
                    standing army, as large, in proportion to its population, as that of the German
                    Empire.
                Those readers who have become interested in the Sandwich Islands through the
                    foregoing Letters, will join me in the earnest wish that this people, which has
                    advanced from heathenism and barbarism to Christianity and civilization in the
                    short space of a single generation, may enjoy peace and prosperity under King
                    Kalakaua, that the extinction which threatens the nation may be averted, and
                    that under a gracious Divine Providence, Hawaii may still remain the inheritance
                    of the Hawaiians.
            
            THE END.
            BRADBURY, AGNEW & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.
        
    
