
     ----CITATION----
        Booth, Catherine Mumford (1829-1890). Papers on Practical Religion. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 339 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (December 20, 1996).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7134
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    PAPERS ON PRACTICAL RELIGION.
                
                BY MRS. BOOTH.
                
                    London:
                    S.W. PARTRIDGE AND CO.,
                        9 PATERNOSTER ROW.
                    BOOK STORES OF THE SALVATION ARMY,
                        272 WHITECHAPEL ROAD,
                
            
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                IT will be observed that these papers are mostly the reports of
                    addresses delivered at various times, in various places where God has called me
                    to witness for Him. I have frequently been asked to publish them in one volume
                    by those who have listened to me with thankfulness to God and profit to
                    themselves.
                Compelled in great measure to desist for a season from public speaking by bodily
                    infirmity, I seize the opportunity to repeat on paper what I have been
                    privileged to express in (to me) brighter days.
                I pray that I may thus be allowed to continue my testimony against the attempt,
                    now so prevalent, to serve both God and mammon, and to warn and teach everyone
                    to flee from the wrath to come by avoiding every sin and the very appearance of
                    evil, and by devoting themselves without reserve to the service of God and the
                    salvation of the world; and I trust that He who has given to me these thoughts
                    and words may restore to me the power to speak again and to speak more boldly
                    still.
                
                    CATHERINE BOOTH.
                    3, GORE ROAD, LONDON, E. CHRISTMAS, 1878.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    The Training of Children—An Address to Parents 1
                    Strong Drink versus Christianity 25
                    
                            Worldly
                            Wordly
                     Amusements and Christianity 38
                    Heart Backsliding 54
                    Dealing with Anxious Souls—An Address to Christian Workers 75
                    “Compel Them to Come In” 88
                    Female Ministry; or, Woman’s Right to Preach the Gospel 95
                    Hot Saints—An Address on Rev. III. 15: “I would Thou wert Cold or Hot”
                        124
                    Conscience 129
                    Aggression 138
                    The Uses of Trial 143
                    Prevailing Prayer 149
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN.
                AN ADDRESS TO PARENTS.
                MY DEAR FRIENDS,—I feel a special interest in addressing you on the
                    present occasion; a sort of family feeling resulting from a community of
                    interests which is always inspiring. I have sometimes thought, when I have heard
                    men talking to women on their duties as wives and mothers, their trials and
                    difficulties, and so on—“Ah, it is all very good, but you don’t know much about
                    it, after all.” Now, I do not come to speak to you to?night under this
                    disadvantage, at any rate. I do know something of the things of which I speak;
                    having had a large and young family, I have had some experience of the anxiety,
                    toil, and difficulty required in the training and management of young children.
                    It is because I am so well acquainted with the weight of the trials and duties
                    of maternity that I sympathise so deeply with mothers, and would fain help to
                    lighten their burdens by a little practical advice and instruction.
                I presume that all here are agreed as to the responsibility devolving on parents
                    to give some sort of training to their children. There is not a
                    mother here who would think it right to leave her child to grow up without
                    discipline or training of some kind! Then the question for us to consider is,
                        what sort of training does God,
                    and our duty to our children, require from us? In order to get at the answer to
                    this question the first important matter for a parent to settle in her own mind
                    is this: To whom does this child belong? IS IT MINE, OR IS IT
                        THE LORD’S? Surely, this question should not need any discussion, at
                    least by Christian parents! For do we not recognise, even before they are born,
                    that they are peculiarly and exclusively a heritage from the Lord; and when they
                    came into the world, the first effort we put forth was to hold them up and offer
                    them to Him? And again, in our baptismal vows we acknowledged that they belonged
                    to Him, and promised to train them for His glory. Now the keeping of this one
                    fact before the mind of a mother will be the best guiding principle in training,
                    and it is because Christian parents so often forget whose their children are,
                    that they make such mistakes in training them. I say then to you mothers here,
                    settle it in your minds that your child belongs absolutely to God and not to
                    you—that you are only stewards for God, holding your children to nurse them and
                    train them for Him.
                This responsibility arises—1st. Out of the command and ordination of God. Both
                    under the old and new dispensations, the Lord has, in the most emphatic and
                    solemn manner, laid the obligation on parents to train their children for Him;
                        He commands it, to whom both parents and children exclusively
                    belong.
                Secondly—This responsibility arises out of the nature of the relationship between
                    parent and child. The parent is in the most complete sense the owner, the
                    guardian, the director, and controller of the child; its utter helplessness and
                    ignorance when it first comes into the world throws it completely under the
                    power of, and at the discretion of, its parents. The poor little infant has no
                    choice but to be led as its parents lead it—no option but to be directed,
                    trained, and developed physically, mentally, and spiritually as its parents 
                        develop
                        develope
                     it; and it is during these early stages of helplessness and ignorance
                    that the impetus is generally given to its
                    future life. There is an old adage that “They who rock the cradle rule the
                    world,” and they certainly do; but I am afraid that the world has been very
                    badly ruled, just because those who rock the cradle have not known how to train
                    the child. Napoleon once said, that the “great want of France was mothers,” and
                    I am afraid we may say to a greater extent than ever before in our history, that
                    the great want of England is mothers—right?minded, able, competent, Christian
                    mothers, who realize their responsibility to God and to their children, and who
                    are resolved at all costs and sacrifices to discharge it.
                Thirdly—This responsibility arises out of our ability for the task.
                    We are able to train our children in the way they should go, or God
                    would not have enjoined it upon us. He required every father and mother in
                    Israel to train their children for Him—He admitted of no exception, no excuse;
                    and in the New Testament it is assumed as a first duty with believers to train
                    up their children “in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.” The training God
                    requires is a moral training—THE INSPIRING OF THE CHILD WITH THE LOVE OF
                    GOODNESS, TRUTH, AND RIGHTEOUSNESS, and leading him to its practice and exercise
                    in all the duties and emergencies of life.
                Now, any parent, however poor, unlearned, or occupied, can do this if only she
                    has the grace of God in her heart, and will take the TROUBLE. Training a child
                    in the way he should go does not necessarily imply a scholastic training. All
                    parents have not the power to educate their children, nor to do much for them
                    temporally; they cannot put them in a position to get much of this world’s
                    goods, but these things are not included in right training. A child may be
                    trained for the highest moral and spiritual development without these; and,
                    where there is natural ability, for the highest mental development also. This is
                    abundantly established in the histories of some of our great men. We know what
                    kind of homes some of them were trained in, what
                    humble parentage some of them had, what little learning they had in their early
                    days, but, nevertheless, they were trained in the way they should go, and having
                    been set going in the right path, when they came to mature years they did not
                    fail to help themselves. No poor parent need be discouraged because he cannot
                    educate his children in the popular sense.
                God does not require of us more than we can do, and if we train our children, as
                    far as is possible to us, in the way they should go, they will then go in that
                    way for themselves; God’s providence and spirit and their own bias will guide
                    them on and on, as it has done many a son of poor parents, to prosperity,
                    usefulness, and honour in this world, as well as to eternal glory in the
                    next.
                But, Fourthly—This responsibility is increased by the opportunity
                    which parents possess, and especially mothers, to train their children. Being
                    thrown constantly with them, having them continually under our eye by night and
                    by day, when no one else is there, being acquainted with all their peculiarities
                    of disposition, and entering into all their joys and sorrows, what splendid
                    opportunities occur daily for pruning, correcting, inspiring, leading and
                    encouraging them as the case may require.
                Then, Fifthly—What an awful responsibility arises out of the
                        influence which God has given us over our children. This
                    influence is IRRESISTIBLE until parents by their own injudicious conduct fritter
                    it away. A little child who has been rightly trained has unbounded,
                    unquestioning confidence in its parents; what father or mother says, is to it,
                    an end of all controversy, it never seeks for further proof. This influence
                    wisely used will never wear out, but will spread like an atmosphere around the
                    child’s moral nature, moulding and fashioning all his future life. I sometimes
                    meet with parents who tell me that at the age of 
                        sixteen
                        sixteeen
                     or seventeen, their children have become quite unmanageable, and that
                    they have lost all their  influence over them. I
                    cannot tell you which I pity most, such children, or such parents. One of the
                    worst signs of our times is the little respect which children seem to have for
                    their parents. There are numbers of boys and girls of from twelve to seventeen
                    years of age, over whom their parents have little or no control. But how has
                    this come to pass? Did these children leap all at once from the restraints and
                    barriers of parental affection and authority? Oh no, it has been the result of
                    the imperceptible growth of years of insubordination and want of proper
                    discipline—the gradual loss of parental influence until they have thrown it off
                    altogether, and resolved to do as they pleased. Hence the terrible exhibitions
                    we have of youthful depravity, lawlessness, and rebellion.
                Well, I think I hear some mother say: I see, I feel my responsibility, and I long
                    to train my children in the way they should go, but
                
                    How am I to do it?
                
                First let us look at the meaning of the word Train. It does not mean merely to
                        teach. Some parents seem to have the notion that all they have
                    to do in training their children aright is to teach them; so they
                    cram them with religious sentiment and truth, making them commit to memory the
                    Catechism, large portions of Scripture, a great many hymns, and so on. All very
                    good as far as it goes, but which may all be done without a single stroke of
                    real training such as God requires, and such as the hearts of our children need.
                    Nay, this mere teaching, informing the head without interesting or influencing
                    the heart, frequently drives children off from God and goodness, and makes them
                        hate, instead of love, everything connected with religion. In
                    the early part of my married life, when my dear husband was travelling very much
                    from place to place, I was frequently thrown into the houses of leading families
                    in churches for three or four weeks at a time, and I used to say to myself, “How
                    is it that these children seem frequently to have a more inveterate dislike for
                    religion and religious things, than the children of worldly people who make no profession”? Subsequent
                    observation and experience has shown me the reason. It is because such parents
                    inform the head without training the heart. They teach what they neither
                    practise themselves nor take the trouble to see that their children practise,
                    and the children see through the hollow sham, and learn to despise both their
                    parents and their religion. Mother, if you want to TRAIN
                    your child you must practise what you teach, and you must SHOW HIM how to practise it also, and you must, at all costs of
                    trouble and care, see that he DOES it.
                Suppose, by way of illustration, that you have a vine, and that this vine is
                    endowed with reason, and will, and moral sense. You say to your vine?dresser,
                    “Now, I want that vine trained”—
                        i.e.
                        id est
                    , made to grow in a particular way, so that it may bear the largest
                    amount of fruit possible to it. Suppose your vine?dresser goes to your vine,
                    every morning, and says to it, “Now, you must let that branch grow in this
                    direction, and that branch grow in another; you are not to put forth too many
                    shoots here, nor too many tendrils there; you must not waste your sap in too
                    many leaves;” and having told it what to do and how to grow, he shuts it up and
                    leaves it to itself. This is precisely the way many good people act towards
                    their children. But, lo! the vine grows as it likes; nature is too strong for
                    mere theory; words will not curb its exuberance, nor check its waywardness. Your
                    vine?dresser must do something more effectual than talking. He must nail that
                    branch where he wishes it to grow; he must cut away what he sees to be
                    superfluous; he must lop, and prune, and dress it, if it is to be trained for
                    beauty and for fruitfulness. And just so, mother, if you want your child to be
                    trained for God and righteousness; you must prune, and curb, and propel, and
                    lead it in the way in which it should go. But some mother says, “What a deal of
                    trouble!” Ah, that is just why many parents fail; they are afraid of trouble;
                    but, as Mrs. Stowe says, “If you will not take the trouble to  train Charlie when he is a little boy, he will give
                    you a great deal more trouble when he is a big one.” Many a foolish mother, to
                    spare herself trouble, has left her children to themselves, and “a child left to
                    himself bringeth his mother to shame!” Many parents teach their
                    children in theory the right way, but by their negligence and indifference,
                        train them in just the opposite. See that mother seated at some
                    important piece of work which she is anxious to finish; her three little
                    children are playing around her—one with his picture?book, another with his
                    horse and cart, and baby with her doll. It is Monday afternoon, and only
                    yesterday she was giving those children a lesson on the importance of love and
                    good?will amongst themselves; that was the teaching, now comes the training.
                    Presently Charlie gets tired of his pictures, and, without asking permission,
                    takes the horse and cart from his younger brother, whereupon there is a scream,
                    and presently a fight. Instead of laying aside her work, restoring the rightful
                    property, explaining to Charlie that it is unjust and unkind to take his
                    brother’s toys, and to the younger one that he should rather suffer wrong than
                    scream and fight, she goes on with her work, telling Charlie that he is a very
                    naughty boy, and making the very common remark that she thinks there never were
                    such troublesome children as hers! Now, who cannot see the different effect it
                    would have had on these children if that mother had taken the trouble to make
                    them realize and confess their fault, and voluntarily exchange the kiss of
                    reconciliation and brotherly affection? What if it had taken half an hour of her
                    precious time, would not the gain be greater than that which would accrue from
                    any other occupation, however important? Mothers, if you want your children to
                    walk in the way they should go, you must not only teach, you must be at the
                    trouble to TRAIN.
                But, Secondly, HOW IS THIS TRAINING TO BE GIVEN?
                The first and most important point is to secure OBEDIENCE. Obedience to properly
                    constituted authority is the foundation of all
                    moral excellence, not only in childhood, but all the way through life. And the
                    secret of a great deal of the lawlessness of these times, both towards God and
                    man, is, that when children, these people were never taught to submit to the
                    authority of their parents; and now you may convince them ever so clearly that
                    it is their duty, and would be their happiness, to submit to God, but their
                    unrestrained, unsubdued wills have never been accustomed to submit to anybody,
                    and it is like beginning to break in a wild horse in old age. Well may the
                    Prophet enquire, “Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
                    Then may ye also do good that are accustomed to do evil.” God has
                    laid it on parents to begin the work of bringing the will into subjection in
                    childhood; and to help us in doing it, He has put in all children a tendency to
                    obey. Watch any young child, and you will find that, as a rule, his instincts
                    lead him to submit; insubordination is the exception, until this tendency has
                    been trifled with by those who have the care of him. Now how important it is, in
                    right training, to take advantage of this tendency to obedience, and not on any
                    account allow it to be weakened by encouraging exceptional rebellion! In order
                    to do this, you must begin EARLY ENOUGH. This is where
                    multitudes of mothers miss their mark; they begin too late. The great majority
                    of children are ruined for the formation of character before they are five years
                    old by the foolish indulgence of mothers.
                I am sometimes asked, “What do you consider the secret of successful training”? I
                    answer, “BEGINNING SOON ENOUGH—not letting Satan get the
                    advantage of us at the start.” That is the secret of success. “Well, but,”
                    mothers say, “it is so hard to chastise an infant.” There is seldom need for
                    chastisement where mothers begin early and wisely. There is a way of speaking to
                    and handling an infant compatible with the utmost love and tenderness, which
                    teaches it that mother is not to be trifled with; that, although she loves and
                    caresses, she is to be obeyed, and will be obeyed, and a child that is trained
                    in this way will not, as a rule, attempt to
                    resist. In exceptional cases it may be tempted to become obstreperous, and then
                    the mother must show her authority. Take an illustration. We will suppose that
                    your son of six months old is in a fractious mood, and indisposed to take his
                    morning nap; his nurse has put him in his cot and struggled with him till she is
                    tired, and the child is tired too; at last you come and take the baby, after he
                    has been rolling and tumbling about, and lay him down with a firm hand, saying
                    with a firm voice, “Baby must lie still and go to sleep,” putting your hand on
                    him at the same time to prevent his rising in the cot or turning over after you
                    have spoken. Now, if this child for the previous three months has been trained
                    in this line, if this is not the beginning, he will, as a natural consequence,
                    lie still and go to sleep; but if he has not been accustomed to this kind of
                    handling, he will perhaps become boisterous and resist you; if so, you must
                        persevere. You must on no account give up; no, not if you stop
                    till night. If he conquers you this time he will try harder next, and it will
                    get more and more difficult. Almost all mothers mistake here; they give up
                    because they will not inflict on themselves the pain of a struggle, forgetting
                    that defeat now only ensures endless battles in the future.
                Remember you MUST conquer in the FIRST battle, whatever it may be about, or you are undone. “Ah, but
                    what time and patience this requires!” Yes, but it is only for once or twice;
                    and what is that compared with the time and toil of conquering further on? But
                    you say, “It is so hard.” Not half so hard as the other way; for when the child
                    finds that mother is not to be got over, he will yield as a matter of course. I
                    have proved it, I think, with some as strong?willed children as ever came into
                    the world. I conquered them at six and ten months old, and seldom had to contend
                    with any direct opposition after. I have a son who is now preaching the Gospel,
                    and a great joy to my heart. The only decided battle I ever fought with him was
                    at ten months old. I do not say that he never
                    disobeyed me afterwards—he sometimes forgot himself and was disobedient—but I do
                    say that I never remember him setting his will in direct antagonism to mine in
                    all the succeeding years of his childhood. It was a painful struggle—that first
                    contest, but has not the result paid for it a thousand thousand times? Oh,
                    mothers, if you love your children, begin early to exact obedience. If
                    chastisement be necessary, inflict it; and for every pang you suffer, every tear
                    you shed, you shall reap comfort, honour, and glory. But, perhaps, there are
                    some mothers who are saying, “Ah, I see it now; but it is too late; my children
                    are too old.” I say: better late than never. Begin and do all you
                        can. Perhaps you can never undo ALL the
                    mischief, but you may a part of it. Call your children around you; confess your
                    past unfaithfulness in your dealings with them, fall on your knees before the
                    Lord with them, and tell Him of your failure to train them for Him, and ask His
                    help to enable you to do it in the future. When you rise from your knees tell
                    your children in the most solemn manner that you see your mistake, and feel how
                    awful it would be, if they were to be lost through your fault, and that from
                    this hour you are going to be obeyed in everything. Begin at once
                    to exact obedience. Be judicious and forbearing, remembering that your
                    children’s habits of disobedience are the result of your own folly,
                    and deal as gently as the case will permit; but at all costs secure obedience,
                    and never more allow your commands to be trifled with. Now is your only chance;
                    a few more years, and your child is undone.
                Do not be afraid to use your authority. One would think, to hear
                    some parents talk of their relations with their children, that they did not
                    possess an iota of power over them. All they dare to do, seems to
                    be to reason, to persuade, to coax. I have frequently heard mothers using all
                    manner of persuasion instead of exerting the authority which God has given for
                    the safeguard and guidance of their poor children. They give their commands in
                    such a voice as leaves it optional whether the child shall obey them or not, and this he understands very well;
                    there is no command, no firmness, no decision, no authority, and the child knows
                    it by its instincts just as an animal would. Men are much wiser in breaking in
                    and training their horses than their sons, hence they generally get much better
                    served by the former than the latter!
                What has God given you authority for, if He did not intend you to use it—if your
                    child can do as well without it? He has sent your child to you to be guided and
                    restrained by your authority, as much as to be inspired and
                    encouraged by your love. How will you answer for the neglect or abuse of this
                    wonderful power? You recollect the fearful punishment that came upon Eli, one of
                    the most terrible strokes of vengeance recorded in the whole Bible. What was it
                    for? Not for using profane language before his children, not for training them
                    in unrighteousness or immorality, for he was a good and righteous man, but
                    “because he restrained them not:” that means he did not use his authority on the
                    side of God and righteousness. Doubtless, this had been his failing all the way
                    through; he had indulged his sons in their own way, until at last they set both
                    him and his God at open defiance. Alas! this has been the case with millions
                    since his day: having sown the wind they reaped the whirlwind. What a contrast
                    the conduct and fate of Eli present in this respect to the conduct of Abraham!
                    “I know him,” said Jehovah, “that he will command his children and
                    his household after him.” Not merely remonstrate, persuade, and threaten, as Eli
                    did, but “command”—he will use his authority on My side; and, as a
                    consequence, the Lord promised that “they should keep the way of the Lord, to do
                    justice and judgment.” Parents, if you fulfil your part of the covenant, never
                    fear but that God will perform His. Only you train your children truly for Him,
                    and He will charge Himself with their future; but do not
                        expect, if you neglect your sacred trust, or abuse it by
                    training them in the nurture and admonition of the world and the devil, that God
                    will work a miracle to convert them when they
                    come to mature years, because you cry and pray and ask Him to do so. He makes no
                    such promise; and we see, alas! in the experience of multitudes of sorrowing
                    parents, that He does not hold Himself bound to work for the salvation of their
                    children on any such conditions.
                Another important point in training a child in the way he should go is to train
                    it in the practice of TRUTH and INTEGRITY. Human nature is said to go “astray from the
                    birth—speaking lies;” and, doubtless, untruthfulness is one of the most easily
                    besetting and prevalent sins of our race. To counteract this tendency, and to
                    establish the soul in habits of truth and sincerity, must be one of the first
                    objects of right training. In order to do this, parents should beware of
                    palliating or excusing the tendency to falsehood in their children. In nothing
                    have I been more amazed than in this. I have actually seen mothers smile at, and
                    almost extol the little artifices of their children in their attempts to deceive
                    them and to hide some childish delinquency. No wonder that such parents fail to
                    inspire their off?spring with that wholesome dread of falseness which is one of
                    the greatest safeguards to virtue in after?life.
                No mother will succeed in begetting in her child a greater antipathy towards any
                    sin than she feels for it herself. Children are the quickest of all
                    analysts, and instinctively detect in a moment all affectation of goodness. They
                    judge not so much from what we say as HOW WE FEEL. They
                    are not influenced so much by our teaching as by our spirit and example. For
                    instance, a mother teaches her child that he is to be truthful, and on no
                    account to tell a lie; but what effect will such teaching have if he hears her
                    tell one, or sees her act one, the next day? Parents teach their children to be
                    sincere, and take 
                        occasion
                        occason
                     to point out examples of the meanness and wickedness of deception, but
                    by their own example they very frequently train them in the grossest
                    insincerity. Take an illustration. A person calls to see you whose society your
                    child knows that you neither esteem nor desire, but you are all smiles and
                    compliments, pressing her to come again, and
                    assuring her that her visit has given you very great pleasure. What more
                    effectual lesson could you give your wondering little one in deception and
                    double?dealing than this?
                And yet how common is this kind of thing in many households? I once stayed in the
                    house of a lady who had a fine promising boy of about eighteen months old. He
                    used to kick and scream violently when he found that she was going out of the
                    house. This, of course, was the result of previous bad training. but what did
                    she do? Instead of facing the difficulty, and in a calm, firm, and affectionate
                    manner curing her little son of this bad habit, she used to promise every time
                    that she would bring him a pony that he could ride on, and the little fellow
                    believed and believed until he got tired, and then put down his mother, in his
                    baby?mind, as a liar. Of course he would not have understood such a definition,
                    but the deception would be burned into his soul never to be eradicated. A child
                    hurts himself against the table: the mother strikes it, and says, “Oh! naughty
                    table! you have hurt baby;” but the child soon learns that the table was not to
                    blame, and at the same time learns to distrust his mother, who said it was.
                A mother invites some little friends to spend an afternoon with her children,
                    during which games are played requiring skill and tact in the winner. Her little
                    boy wins several of the games, and although his brother or one of his little
                    friends says that he was not fair—that is, that he cheated—she does not appear
                    to notice it, but contents herself by saying, “Oh, you must be good children and
                    not quarrel;” thus inflicting an unjust reflection on the child of honour and
                    integrity, while encouraging the other in the meanest and most selfish form of
                    sin—allowing him to rejoice over the victory won, through fraud or
                    sleight?of?hand. Can such a mother wonder if her boy turns out a thief or a
                    gambler? Well, but you say how unpleasant it would be in such a case to go into
                        particular investigation, spoil the
                    enjoyment of the party, and expose your child as a cheat before them! Certainly
                    it would be very unpleasant, and to a mother who is more concerned
                    about her son appearing to be a cheat than she is about his
                        being one the result would not be worth the fuss; but, to a
                    mother who esteems the honour and integrity of her boy more than all appearances
                    or opinions in the world, such an opportunity of correcting his fault and
                    fortifying him against future temptation is more than the breaking up of a dozen
                    parties. Oh, how many a promising child has been ruined because his mother would
                    not endure the pain and trouble of an investigation? “He that covereth his sins
                    shall not prosper.” Neither does such a course win the good opinion of others.
                    The children go away feeling that your son is a cheat just the same; and, what
                    is worse, feeling that you are a party to his wickedness.
                Again, Charlie is ill, and it is needful for him to take a dose of unpleasant
                    medicine; but he has been so badly trained that his mother knows he will not
                    take it if she tells him it is nasty. So she resorts to stratagem, and tells him
                    that she has got something good, and thus coaxes him to take it into his mouth,
                    but before it is swallowed he detects the cheat, and medicine and mother’s
                    veracity are spit out together. In this way thousands of children are taught
                    deception and untruth, and you may labour in vain in after years to make them
                    truthful and sincere—the soil has been ruined by early abuse.
                Mothers, if you want your child to be truthful and sincere you must not only
                        teach it to be so, you must be so yourself, and see that your
                    child practises what you teach. You must not wink at, or cover up
                    any kind of falseness or deception in him, because he is yours. Sin
                    should be the more awful to you because you see it in those so dear, and those
                    for whom you are responsible. If you have any reason to suspect your child of
                    insincerity or falsehood, do not rest until you have bottomed the matter; never
                    mind what trouble or pain it involves, drag it
                    out, even though it should bring for the time exposure and disgrace. This may
                    prove a useful chastisement, and a warning in the future. Anything is preferable
                    to sin covered up, and consequently encouraged. Resolve that you will make your
                    child truthful and sincere, if you can do it no other way, from very despair of
                    being able to hide anything from you. God acts on this principle with adults:
                    why should not we with our children? “Be sure your sin will find you out.”
                I know some children amongst whom it is a common remark, “It is of no use trying
                    to hide anything from mamma, for she is sure to find it out; so it is best to
                    tell her at once.” How much misery it would save if it were thus in every
                    family! Mothers, take the trouble to make your children TRUE, and God will enable you to do it. If you work for Him
                        with your children, He will work with you in them, and
                    you shall have the joy of seeing them grow up into Christ, their living Head in
                    all things.
                But further. To train a child in the way it should go, we must not stop with
                    those qualities and virtues which bear on man; but it must be trained in the
                    exercise of devotion and piety towards God. Of course, none but truly Christian
                    parents are equal to impart this kind of training. The Holy Ghost
                    must needs be in the heart of the mother who undertakes to lead her child to
                    God. The bias to evil is too strong to be turned aside by unassisted human
                    wisdom or strength, however great. But, bless God! there is every encouragement
                    to those parents who are truly His, to hope for success in training their
                    children for Him.
                And, perhaps, the first important point in such effort is, to lead our children
                    to regard themselves as standing in a special relationship to God. “The promise
                    is to you and to your children.”
                And there is a sense in which the children of believers are already set apart for
                    Him. Many parents seem to lose sight of this
                    covenant relation, and bring up their children under the idea that they must
                    needs live in sin till they come to be fifteen or sixteen years old, and then
                    they hope God will convert them in the same marvellous and sudden manner in
                    which drunkards and profligates are converted. Now, I am as firm a believer in
                    conversion as any one can be; and I also believe that the children of believers
                    need to be converted as much as others, but I say this is not the way to teach
                    our children to expect it. What is conversion but the renewal of the mind by the
                    Holy Ghost through faith in a crucified Saviour? And as there are “diversities
                    of operations by the same spirit,” why may not the minds of children be renewed
                    very early? Why may they not be led to choose Christ and His yoke at seven or
                    eight years old as well as at seventeen? If the will of a child be sincerely
                    yielded to God, cannot the blessed spirit as easily and as effectually renew and
                    actuate its heart and affections as those of an adult? And does not Jesus say
                        “SUFFER the little ones to come unto Me”? Alas! how
                    many Christian parents unwittingly forbid them?
                Because in the case of those who have had no previous light or training,
                    conversion is necessarily sudden and followed by a great outward change, is that
                    any reason why in the case of a child carefully trained in the “nurture and
                    admonition of the Lord,” the Holy Spirit should not work together with such
                    training, adapting his operations to the capacity and requirements of the little
                    ones who are already “of the kingdom of heaven”? thus gradually installing them
                    in all the privileges, duties, and enjoyments of that kingdom. Of what advantage
                    would it be to train them in the “nurture and admonition of the Lord,” if He did
                    not purpose to bless this training to their conversion and salvation? The very
                    terms of this injunction show the sense in which the Holy Spirit uses them.
                    “Nurture” means “nursing, feeding, strengthening, developing.” “Admonition”
                    means “reproof, caution, instruction.” Here is the order of God, firstly, the
                    feeding and strengthening of all that is good
                    in them; and secondly, the reproof and caution against evil; and thirdly,
                    instruction in righteousness. If parents would only take the Lord’s way, they
                    would see their sons and their daughters taking their places in the temple of
                    the Lord, as their natural and abiding home. Wisely and faithfully trained up
                    for God, they would say, when solicited to go away, “To whom should we go”?
                    “Ah,” says some mother, “It is very easy to talk, but you don’t know the natural
                    antipathy which my children have to religion. I am sure I have tried to teach
                    them the right way, and to make them love that which is good, but, so far, I see
                    very little result of my labours.” Perhaps, my friend, the failure has been in
                    that you have taught but have not trained. You have told them the
                    way to take, but have not led them in it. If you are to succeed you
                    must do both, and that continually.
                Of course right training includes right teaching, for though there may be much
                    teaching without training, there cannot be good training without teaching.
                    Doubtless many parents and teachers fail here for want of tact and wisdom in
                    their methods of instruction.
                The one great rule to be observed in all teaching is to make your lessons INTERESTING. If you cannot awaken the interest of your
                    child you had better give up, and school and inform yourself till
                    you can. I have not a doubt that many an impetuous, earnest, high?spirited child
                    is driven to hate the Bible the Sanctuary, and religious exercises in general by
                    the cold, spiritless, insipid, canting manner in which he hears them read and
                    performed. He knows by instinct that this is not the way people go through
                    things in which their hearts are deeply concerned. He hears father
                    and mother and friends talk in a natural, easy, interesting manner on business
                    and family matters, and consequently he listens with interest, but the moment
                    they begin with religion he feels there is no heart in it, he feels
                    that it is because they MUST, not because they LIKE. He is taught to sing “Happy, happy Sunday, the
                    brightest of the seven;” but he knows that in
                    his home it is the dullest day of the week, and that the whole household are
                    relieved when it is passed and they are able to be back at this world’s
                    employments and enjoyments.
                Now, if you want your child to love and enjoy the Sabbath you must make it the
                    most INTERESTING day of the week. If you want him to love
                    and read his Bible you must so tell him its stories, and elucidate its lessons
                    as to make it INTEREST him. If you want him to love
                    prayer you must so pray as to interest and draw out his mind and heart with your
                    own, and teach him to go to God, as he comes to you, in his own natural voice
                    and manner to tell Him his wants and to express his joys or sorrows. The themes
                    of religion are of all themes most interesting to children when dealt with
                    naturally and interestingly.
                I used to take my eldest boy on my knee from the time when he was about two years
                    old and tell him the stories of the Old Testament in baby language and adapted
                    to baby comprehension, one at a time, so that he thoroughly drank them in and
                    also the moral lessons they were calculated to convey. When between three and
                    four years old I remember once going into the nursery and finding him mounted on
                    his rocking?horse, in a high state of excitement, finishing the story of Joseph
                    to his nurse and baby brother, showing them how Joseph galloped on his live “gee
                    gee” when he went to fetch his father to show him to 
                        Pharaoh
                        Pharoah
                    . In the same way we subsequently went through the history of the
                    flood, having a Noah’s Ark, which was kept for Sabbath use; making the Ark
                    itself the foundation of one lesson, Noah and his family of another, and the
                    gathering of the animals of a third, and so on until the subject was
                    exhausted.
                When my family increased, it was my custom before these Sabbath lessons to have a
                    short lively tune. A short prayer, in which I let them all repeat after me,
                    sentence by sentence, asking the Lord to help us to understand His word, and to
                    bless our souls, and so on. After the lesson another short prayer, and then
                    another tune or two. After this they would
                    adjourn to the nursery, where frequently they would go through the whole service
                    again, the eldest being the preacher. When baby was asleep their nurse would
                    read interesting infantile stories to the elder ones, or teach them suitable
                    bits of poetry by letting them all repeat it together after her. Thus the
                    Sabbath was made a day of pleasure as well as of instruction and improvement. I
                    never allowed my children to attend public services till they were old enough to
                    take some interest in them. We had no mission services then, or they would have
                    been able to understand, and enter into a great part of them, but I deemed it an
                    evil to make a child sit still for an hour?and?a?half, dangling its legs on a
                    high seat, listening to what it could neither understand nor appreciate, for
                    alas, there is little in the ordinary services of our day to interest or profit
                    children, and I am satisfied that a great deal of the distaste for religious
                    services so common amongst them has been engendered in this way. My experience
                    has been that my children have come so highly to appreciate the privilege of
                    attending service, that a promise of it during the week would insure extra good
                    behaviour and diligence.
                Of course, mothers who have no one to leave with their children cannot always
                    stay at home, and must take them as often as is necessary for their own
                    edification. To those parents who are able to keep servants, I would say, make
                    any sacrifice to keep a really good Christian girl with your children. I have
                    made it a rule never to have any other as a nurse, and have sometimes put up
                    with great inexperience and incompetency, because it was associated with
                    goodness. Better take a girl whom you have to teach how to wash a child’s face,
                    or to stitch a button on, if she is true and sincere, than have one ever so
                    clever who will teach your children to lie and deceive.
                But to return to the subject of teaching. Not only must you make your teaching
                    interesting, but also practical, in the highest degree. Your children want to
                    know how to comport themselves now in the little duties, trials,
                    and enjoyments of their daily life. It is to be
                    feared that, as with adults so with children, a deal of so?called teaching is
                    right away above their heads, dealing with abstract truths and far?off
                    illustrations, instead of coming down to such every?day matters as obedience to
                    parents and teachers; the learning of their lessons; their treatment of
                    brothers, sisters, and servants; their companionships; their amusements; the
                    spending and giving of their pocket?money; their dealings with the poor; their
                    treatment of animals—in short, everything embraced in their daily life. The
                    great end of Christian training is to lead children to realize the fact that
                    they BELONG TO GOD, and are under a solemn obligation to
                    do everything in a way which they think will please Him. Parents cannot begin
                    too early, nor labour too continuously, to keep this fact before the minds of
                    their children. In the family devotion in the morning, the father or mother, or
                    whoever conducts it, should bring the children specially before the Lord, asking
                    Him “to give them grace this day, to be obedient to those who have the care of
                    them. To be diligent at their lessons, so that they many lay in knowledge, which
                    shall make them useful to their fellow?creatures, and enable them
                    to do something for God and souls, if He sees fit to spare them.”
                Above all things, parents should labour to counteract the natural selfishness of
                    the hearts of their children by showing them that they are not to live unto
                    themselves—that they are not to be good, and industrious, and
                    studious, in order that THEY THEMSELVES may be learned,
                    or happy, or successful in the world. For these are the things after which the
                    Gentiles—the unbelieving world—seek; but that they, as belonging to God, are to
                    live unto Him, who hath given Himself for them, seeking first His
                    kingdom and righteousness. Seeking first to glorify Him, and do good to their
                    generation, leaving it with Him to fix the bounds of their habitation, and to
                    choose their inheritance for them. Alas! how few Christian parents seem to
                    understand this first principle of right training—hence their anxiety to push
                    their children on, and up, in the learning, prin? ciples, customs, and ambitions of this world. Surely “God is not mocked, for
                    as they sow to the flesh, they of the flesh reap corruption;” and, alas! their
                    poor children’s SOULS are sacrificed in the bargain.
                Oh, mothers, don’t be deceived if you want your children to be the Lord’s when
                    they grow up, if you want your boy to withstand the unknown temptations of the
                    future—if you want him to come out a man of righteous principle, integrity, and
                    honour—superior to all the doubleness, chicanery, and devilry of the world, you
                    must train him to look upon all the world’s prizes as dross compared with the
                    joy of a pure conscience and a life of usefulness to his fellow?men. If you want
                    your daughter to be a true woman, willing to sacrifice and to suffer in the
                    interests of humanity and truth, you must inspire her NOW
                    with a contempt for the baubles for which so many women barter their lives and
                    their souls—you must teach her that she is an independent, responsible being,
                    whom God will call to as severe a reckoning for the use or abuse of her talents
                    as that of her brother man. Day by day, as it flies, you must labour to wake up
                    your 
                        children’s
                        chiiren's
                     souls to the realization of the fact that they belong to
                        God, and that He has sent them into the world, not to look after
                    their own little petty, personal interests, but to devote themselves to the
                    promotion of His! and that, in doing this, they will find
                    happiness, usefulness, and glory.—Matt. xxv. 14?16.
                I would like, in conclusion, to add a few cautions against evils which I have
                    seen to be very common in families, and which I believe exert a very baneful
                    influence on the formation of character. First amongst these is an INORDINATE
                    ESTIMATE OF THE VALUE OF MONEY. One would think, from the meanness and the
                    discomfort of the ordering of many families, that money was the household god at
                    whose shrine every consideration of comfort, health, friendship, and benevolence
                    had been sacrificed. What will it cost? is the first question that meets every
                    suggestion of improvement in any direction, and
                    this frequently, not because money is scarce, but simply because it cannot be
                    parted with!
                Now, children soon find out the ruling principle in the family administration,
                    and if they see it to be covetousness or avariciousness, parents may
                        teach all the catalogue of Christian virtues from morning till
                    night, but their children will grow up selfish in the very core of their souls.
                    Like begets like the world over, and you show me a household where the spirit of
                    covetousness reigns, and I will show you ungenerous, cunning children. “The
                        LOVE OF MONEY is the root of all evil” is an axiom as
                    true as it is neglected; and until parents, by their actions, show their
                    children that they deem domestic comfort and religion, the claims of Christian
                    hospitality, the blood and lives of their servants, the claims of the suffering
                    and the destitute, and the crying need of the benighted multitude of more
                    importance than the HOARDING OF MONEY, they must go on
                    reaping the reward of their covetousness in the selfish indulgence, ungrateful
                    neglect, and open profligacy of their children. Ah, how many a parent, who has
                    sacrificed all the higher and nobler impulses of his own and his children’s
                    natures to money?making, has had it scattered by thousands by wicked, selfish
                    sons?
                Another great evil which I have seen even in families where there has in the main
                    been much good training, is the yielding in an emergency on points of principle
                    for the sake of expediency. Take an illustration. Here is a family who are
                    trained in the principles of abstinence from intoxicating drinks, as all
                    Christian families undoubtedly ought to be. These parents have wisely taught
                    their children that strong drink is an evil and bitter thing, and that all
                    traffic and countenance of it brings a curse; but on a certain day, a letter
                    comes announcing that General So?and?so, or Captain Somebody is coming to pay a
                    visit to his cousin, on his return from India. Of course there is much
                    excitement and expectation among the junior members of the family, and a becoming anxiety on the part of the
                    parents, worthily to entertain their guest, but a difficulty presents itself.
                    The General is not an abstainer, he has always been accustomed to his wine and
                    spirits. “What shall we do,” says the mother, “he will think it inhospitable and
                    mean to deny him his favourite beverage”? “Well, yes,” says the father, “I don’t
                    see how we can do it in this instance; you see he is an old man,
                    and would not appreciate our views or our motives. I fear we shall have to order
                    a little wine for him. I don’t like to bring it in sight of the children, but we
                    must explain the circumstances to them, and we will hope no harm will come of
                    it.” These parents sacrifice principle to expediency, and admit the mocker to
                    their family circle. Can they be surprised if one of their sons turns out a
                    drunkard? “Ah!” said a broken?hearted father once to my husband—“I trained my
                    boy in abstinence principles, but I did not keep him out of the society of those
                    who thought there was no harm in moderate drinking, and now he is an outcast and
                    an alien whom I cannot allow to cross my threshold—he has killed his mother, and
                    will bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to the grave.” “Have no fellowship
                    with the unfruitful works—or instruments of darkness—evil.” “Wine is a mocker.”
                        WINE ITSELF, not the abuse of it. Here is the secret
                    why so many thousands of the fair and promising fall by it. Christian parents,
                    fear it as you would the bite of a serpent, and as you value the souls of your
                    children keep it out of their very sight.
                Another great enemy to the formation of righteous character is ambition for what
                    is called position in society! Some parents are continually putting before their
                    children future aggrandisement and fortune, as a stimulus to industry and
                    effort, thus holding up to their young minds this world’s prosperity and
                    applause as the great aim and object of life. To get to be more learned, more
                    genteel, more wealthy than men of their own class, so that they may be received
                    into higher circles of worldly society. Such parents often fail, and in the attempt to leap the chasm which bars his
                    upward course, many a son falls headlong through the abyss of disappointed
                    ambition, down to damnation, and many a daughter to that path, the steps of
                    which “take hold on Hell.” Ah, but some succeed! Yes, and what reward do the
                    parents often get? The son and daughter, whom they toiled and struggled so hard
                    to push up, get so high they can scarcely see the poor, neglected parents down
                    below, and often leave them to die with a broken heart. Truly “Godliness with
                    contentment is—Great Gain.”
                I cannot close these remarks without lifting up my voice against the practice now
                    so prevalent amongst respectable families, of sending children to boarding
                    schools before their principles are formed or their characters developed.
                    Parents are led away by the professedly religious character of schools,
                    forgetting that, even supposing the master or governess may be all that can be
                    desired, a School is a little world where all the elements of
                    unrenewed human nature are at work with as great variety, subtlety, and power as
                    in the great world outside. You would shrink from exposing your child to the
                    temptation and danger of association with unconverted worldly men and women, why
                    should you expose them to the influence of children of the same
                    character, who are not unfrequently sent to these schools because they have
                    become utterly vitiated and unmanageable at home? I have listened to many a sad
                    story of the consequences of these school associations, and early made up my
                    mind to keep my children under my own influence, at least until
                    they had attained that maturity in grace and principle which would be an
                    effectual safeguard against ungodly associations. To this end I have rejected
                    several very tempting offers in the way of educational advantage, and every day
                    I am increasingly thankful for having been enabled to do so. God has laid on
                        you, parents, the responsibility of training your
                    children, and you cannot possibly delegate that responsibility to
                    another without endangering their highest interests for time and for
                        eternity.
            
            
            
                STRONG DRINK VERSUS CHRISTIANITY.
                THE subject upon which I have been requested to write a paper is, “The
                    Value of Temperance in connection with Religious Aggressive Effort.”
                Before entering directly on the subject, I want to make two or three preliminary
                    remarks, and,
                I. It may be well to explain that we understand religious aggressive effort to
                    be, that interference on the part of Christians with the thoughts and
                        actions of ungodly men which the Bible shows to be necessary, in order to
                        secure their present and eternal well?being.
                We, Christians, see around us everywhere men and women under the influence of
                    false ideas, given up to selfish indulgences and evil practices, which enslave
                    their faculties and render real happiness impossible to them, either in this
                    life or in that which is to come. Now, religious aggressive effort implies
                    measures taken for their deliverance from these evil habits, and from the
                    bondage of Satan, and the actual bringing of these souls into the liberty,
                    power, and blessedness of the family of God. It is, in short, a holy warfare,
                    prosecuted under the direction and power of the Holy Spirit, to bring men from
                    darkness to light, from the power of Satan unto God.
                
                II. I want to remark that the very nature of Christianity renders this
                        aggressive effort incumbent on all Christians. Not only are there
                    many passages directly enforcing this duty, but it is assumed as a fundamental
                    principle, underlying the whole economy of grace, that the truly regenerate will
                    be benevolently active for the good of others. A desire to save the lost seems
                    to be a divinely?inspired impulse in the soul of every real child of God, as it
                    were a holy instinct, in which the disciple ever resembles his master, and the
                    servant his lord. I am aware that there is a great deal of professed
                    Christianity in these days which lacks this lineament of the Divine likeness,
                    and makes so much of faith that love is deemed almost superfluous. An inspired
                    apostle, however, declares that there is something greater even than faith,
                    which is charity, and though we have a faith that will remove mountains, if we
                    have not charity it profiteth us nothing. Truly an inoperative faith neither
                    profiteth its possessor nor those around him, but is only as sounding brass or
                    tinkling cymbal. The faith which is of the operation of the Spirit “worketh by
                    love,” and ever leads its possessor to follow Him who went about doing good, and
                    who persistently taught His disciples that self?love, self?interest, and
                    self?indulgence must be sacrificed to the utmost, whenever the interests of His
                    kingdom or the salvation of their fellow?men should demand such sacrifice.
                III. I want to observe further that THE USE OF INTOXICATING
                        DRINKS AS A BEVERAGE IS THE CAUSE AND STRENGTH OF A VERY LARGE PROPORTION OF
                        THE WICKEDNESS, CRIME, VICE, AND MISERY WHICH EXIST AROUND US. With
                    this proposition many of us here are sadly too familiar; it needs neither proof
                    nor illustration; indeed, with some little modification, it is coming to be
                    admitted in almost all quarters, even amongst the greatest enemies of our
                    principles. The time is fast passing in which there has existed a difference of
                    opinion amongst the wise and good, as to the real character of these drinks. The
                        baneful harvest of crime and misery which
                    their consumption has entailed on us as a nation, has opened the eyes of almost
                    every thinking and patriotic mind to the fact that the drink, not the abuse of
                    it, but the drink itself, is an evil thing, in very truth a “mocker,” the
                    product of Satanic art and malice, to be rejected and eschewed by all who have
                    any regard for their own or their neighbour’s well?being. We might adduce
                    overwhelming evidence that strong drink is the natural ally of all wickedness.
                    Unquestionable statistics have been produced which show that its stimulus is
                    essential to the plotting and commission of almost every kind of villainy. The
                    gambler seeks it to aid him in the craft and cunning by which he lures his
                    victim on to financial ruin. The seducer has recourse to its deceptive power to
                    pave the way for his cruel licentiousness. The burglar braces his courage and
                    hardens his conscience by its exhilarating fumes. The harlot drowns in the
                    intoxicating cup her sense of shame, and from it gathers strength to trample out
                    the deepest, tenderest instincts of womanhood. The murderer is powerless to
                    strike the fatal blow till maddened by its infernal stimulus. In short, all
                    classes and sizes of criminals unite to testify, “By the influence of drink we
                    are what we are,” and missionaries, Bible?women, chaplains, jailors,
                    magistrates, and judges, say, “Amen” to their testimony.
                We have no hesitation in affirming that strong drink is Satan’s chief
                    instrumentality for keeping the masses of this country under his power.
                IV. If the foregoing propositions are correct—If Christians are bound to aggress
                    on the kingdom of Satan, and if strong drink constitutes one of the mightiest
                    forces of that kingdom, then it follows inevitably that TO BE
                        SUCCESSFUL IN AGGRESSIVE EFFORT CHRISTIANS MUST DEAL WITH THE DRINK.
                    To attempt to make war on the enemy’s territory without contemplating this
                    gigantic force, is kindred folly to that of France in going to war with Prussia
                    without having duly estimated the strategic
                    skill of their great general. Such folly must always be followed by failure and
                    defeat. Doubtless one secret of the church’s failure in nearly all aggressive
                    measures has been her ignoring the power of this great adversary. Why, even
                    heathen chiefs, the heads of savage tribes, have sent us word that “it is of no
                    use to send them the Bible, if at the same time we send them strong drink.”
                    Alas! that Christians have been so slow to learn the power of this mitrailleuse
                    of hell, but, thank God, some of them are beginning to appreciate it at last,
                    and these are crying, What is to be done? How shall we deal with the drink? We
                    answer, in the name of Christ and humanity, deal with it as you do with all
                    other Satan?invented, Christ?dishonouring, soul?ruining abominations. Wash your
                    hands of it at once, and for ever! And give a united and straightforward
                    testimony to the world that you consider it an enemy of all righteousness and
                    the legitimate offspring of Satan!
                I submit that there is no other way for Christians to deal with strong drink. All
                    other ways have been tried and have failed. The time has come for
                        Christians to denounce the use of intoxicating drinks as irreligious and
                        immoral; and God Almighty will put immortal renown on those of His
                    servants who are sufficiently true, and brave, and self?sacrificing first to run
                    the gauntlet of earth and hell in doing this. “They shall be had in everlasting
                    remembrance,” and counted amongst the greatest benefactors of their race.
                We contend that the attempt to make what is termed the moderate use of strong
                    drink consistent with a profession of religion has signally and ignominiously
                    failed; and the common sense of mankind is turning upon those who have made it
                    with these most pertinent questions—How can that which produces all this crime
                    and misery be a good thing? and if it be an evil thing, how can it be
                        moderately used?
                This question comes with overwhelming force to those who stand forth as labourers
                    for the spiritual benefit of mankind. At every
                    step the drink difficulty meets them. They can no longer ignore it, it must be
                    met and grappled with. In America, the importance of this question in its
                    bearing on Christianity has been so fully recognised, that almost every
                    Christian minister has become an abstainer; and I venture to affirm, that the
                    religious instinct of Christians in both countries has pronounced this action to
                    be consistent and praiseworthy. If consistent and praiseworthy in America, would
                    it not be equally so in England? God grant that such may soon be the case
                    here!
                But I must hasten to point out two or three particulars in which this principle
                    is specially valuable in connection with religious aggressive effort.
                I. ABSTINENCE IS VALUABLE TO THOSE WHO ARE CALLED TO MAKE SUCH
                        EFFORT—1st. As a source of strength.
                No man can deny himself, constrained by Divine love for the good of others,
                    without improving his own moral nature and giving increased scope for the
                    operation of the Divine Spirit within him. “Let us not love in word, neither in
                    tongue; but in deed and in truth. And hereby we know that we are of the truth,
                    and shall assure our hearts before him.”
                2. Abstinence is valuable to the Christian labourer as a safeguard against
                        temptation. It is well known that a large majority of those who
                    become subjects for church discipline, owe their fall directly or indirectly to
                    drink. The man who never uses it can never fall through its influence. He is
                    safe thus far, because he goes not into temptation.
                3. Abstinence is valuable to the labourer, because it helps to beget a
                        conviction of his disinterestedness in the minds of those whom he seeks to
                        benefit, which conviction is indispensable to his success. Doubtless
                    the unwillingness of religious teachers to forego their own indulgence in the
                    use of wine and spirits has greatly diminished their influence, and helped
                    largely to beget that prejudice with which great numbers of the common people regard them. We are satisfied that if the
                    Gospel is to make any great advance on the masses of this country, those who
                    seek to propagate it must abandon the use of drink. As Dr. Guthrie remarks, in
                    his preface to “Scriptural Claims of Teetotalism,” “I am astonished that so many
                    ministers of the Gospel and Christian people can turn aside from the fight as
                    they do. When I laboured among the lower, and, indeed, lowest classes of society
                    in this city, I was met at every corner by the demon of drink. I found it
                    utterly useless to attempt to evangelise the heathen and raise the lapsed masses
                    without the aid of total abstinence. With all my trust in the promises of God,
                    and blessings of the Holy Spirit, I felt that I must be able to say to the
                    people not ‘Forward,’ but ‘Follow.’ This first induced me to become an
                    abstainer; and I am convinced that it is the duty of every man, who would do his
                    utmost for the glory of God and the good of his fellow?creatures, to
                    discountenance by his example the use of intoxicating stimulants.”
                II. WE REMARK FURTHER THE VALUE OF ABSTINENCE TO THOSE ON WHOM HE
                        HAS TO AGGRESS. 1st. It is indispensable as a pioneer in
                        reaching the drunkard. The motives, arguments, and persuasions of the
                    Gospel are addressed to the reason, conscience, and feelings of men, and, of
                    course, presuppose a sane condition of mind. Everybody knows that it is useless
                    to present these to a man when intoxicated; therefore, in the case of thousands
                    who live in a perpetual state of intoxication, the only chance of salvation is
                    to rescue them from the influence of drink. Drunkenness is a physical, as well
                    as moral disease, and if we would remove it, we must proceed on the same
                    principle as we do with the insane; we must restore the reason before we can
                    sanctify the heart. Some of our Christian friends object to this, and say, “Then
                    it is the Gospel and total abstinence.” We say emphatically, Yes,
                    just in the same sense as in the case of a lunatic or a man raving in a fever;
                    it is the Gospel and the Physician.
                
                If any of our friends doubt whether so many are thus perpetually under the
                    influence of drink, let them pay us a visit in the East of London; and, alas! we
                    can point them to multitudes of besotted, benighted beings, who are never
                    sufficiently sober to be able intelligently to comprehend the truth, even if
                    they could be got to listen to it. Their mental faculties are so benumbed with
                    the imbruting drink, that a vacant stare is often the only response to the first
                    attempt at arousing and reclaiming them; and all our labourers feel that there
                    is but little hope unless they can by some means be kept from the drink, until
                    reason and conscience have a chance to operate. Thanks be to God, many of this
                    class have been reclaimed and transformed in connection with our mission work;
                    but I am not acquainted with a single instance in which the drink has not been
                    entirely abandoned. In our last year’s report, “The Masses Reached,” Mr. Booth
                    has selected one hundred instances, out of hundreds of a similar character, of
                    the power of the Gospel to save the vilest and worst of sinners, and at least
                    eighty of these were drunkards of the most terrible description. Let any
                    friends, sceptical as to the thoroughly imbruting effects of drunkenness, read
                    these instances. It would be difficult to believe that man could fall so low,
                    unless one had indisputable proof.
                We would ask those who object to the use of abstinence as an instrumentality in
                    saving the drunkard, what plan they would suggest for his restoration to sense
                    and reason?
                The plan hitherto adopted by many of them, we lament to say, has been simply to
                    leave him to his fate. While giving countenance and patronage to the drink which
                    has made him what he is, they have left him in his helplessness and misery to
                    sink into a drunkard’s hell! We might ask how it has come to pass that with such
                    a confessedly alarming number of drunkards in our midst, there has not been put
                    in operation one Christian organisation specially adapted to reach and save
                    them! Has not the felt inconsistency of trying
                    to save the drunkard while patronising the drink, had something to do with this
                    anomaly? It is a significant fact, that we rarely find any who are not
                    abstainers who care for the drunkard. We admit, however, and believe, that the
                    pioneering work to be done in order to reach the drunkard, and bring him under
                    the influence of the Gospel, ought to be done by Christians; but until Christian
                    ministers and people will forego their own indulgence, and undertake the labour
                    of hunting down the drunkard, we say, for pity’s sake, let those do it who will,
                    for any man has a better chance of salvation sober than drunk, under any
                    circumstances.
                2nd. Total abstinence is valuable in separating men from those associations
                        and habits which prevent them hearing the Gospel. How shall they
                    believe except they hear? We find large numbers of people who, though not
                    drunkards, are so mixed up with, and hedged in by drinking customs, that it is
                    impossible to get at them with religious truth. The streets and public
                    thoroughfares are the only places where even a solitary sentence of Divine truth
                    can be sounded in their ears, and, alas! there are but few Christians who
                    attempt to catch them in this vulgar and out?of?season fashion: consequently,
                    tens of thousands of them never hear at all that Word by which alone they can be
                    saved. Now, abstinence reaches many of these, and by separating them from old
                    associations, and creating a vacuum in their social life, throws them in the way
                    of religious teaching and influence. When a man, who has been accustomed to
                    spend his Sabbath evenings, as thousands do, in pleasure?parties, tea?gardens,
                    or in family gatherings, where the social glass forms the principal bond of
                    union, when such a one becomes an abstainer, he is thrown out of his orbit, and
                    necessarily looks round for some way of disposing of himself. He wants somewhere
                    to go, and somebody with whom to associate, and in numbers of instances betakes
                    Himself to the House of God, because this offers the readiest way of meeting his
                        difficulty. We know of numbers who have
                    thus been won to Christ and happiness, and doubtless there will be many more
                    when the Church learns better to adapt her 
                        measures
                        messures
                     and services to the capacities and necessities of this class of
                    hearers.
                3rd. Abstinence is a valuable ally of the Gospel in the case of those
                        already under its influence, because it tends to keep the intellect clear
                        and the conscience awake for the perception and application of Divine
                        truth. There is every reason to believe that vast numbers who
                    regularly sit under Scriptural teaching are enabled to stifle the voice of
                    conscience and resist the claims of God, through the exhilarating or stupifying
                    effects of what is termed moderate quantities of stimulating drinks. We have
                    spoken with numbers of people after religious services whose breath has been
                    laden with the fumes of wine or brandy, indicating that sufficient has been
                    taken during the afternoon to blunt the moral susceptibilities and to beget a
                    self?complacency just the reverse of that state of mind necessary for the proper
                    reception of Divine truth. Satan seems to have got wiser for his malicious
                    purposes since our Lord uttered the parable of the sower. He does not wait now
                    till the seed is sown, but is, in the case of thousands, beforehand with the
                    sower, rendering the soul impervious to the precious seed by deadly opiates of
                    diabolical concoction. We believe this indirect result of drinking to be even
                    more widespread and ruinous than the more direct; and that in the great day of
                    account it will be found that multitudes in this Gospel?enlightened land of ours
                    were enabled to resist the most pungent appeals of truth, to silence conscience,
                    and effectually to resist the strivings of the Holy Ghost, only through the
                    influence of strong drink.
                III. TOTAL ABSTINENCE IS A VALUABLE ALLY OF THE GOSPEL, AS A
                        CONSERVING POWER. We must not only aggress on the kingdom of
                    darkness, but we must use every means to keep the spoils. When the evil spirit
                    is cast out we must do our utmost to keep him out, or the last state of our
                    convert will be worse than the first. When a
                    man is brought under the influence of the Spirit, to see himself a sinner, and
                    to embrace the Saviour, he should be taught that he has only just entered on his
                    heavenward course, and in order that he may so run as to obtain, he must cast
                    aside every weight, keep his body under, watch and pray, and keep out of
                    temptation. In the case of those who have been addicted to intemperance, all but
                    universal experience proves that there is absolutely no hope of their “standing
                    fast” without the entire abandonment of the drink. Our Lord taught His disciples
                    to pray to be kept out of temptation; and again and again we are warned and
                    enjoined to keep ourselves out, and on this condition all His promises of grace
                    and deliverance are suspended. God has nowhere promised to keep the man who
                    needlessly, and for the sake of his own indulgence, runs into temptation. How
                    fearful, then, the responsibility of those Christians who tell the reclaimed
                    inebriate, aye who tell any man, “You may safely tamper with the drink! You may
                    play with this fire of hell, and trust in God to keep you from being burnt.”
                    Alas, how do such counsellors unwittingly play the part of Satan in his cunning
                    approaches to our Lord. “Cast thyself down, for it is written, He shall give His
                    angels charge concerning thee; and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest
                    at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.” Oh, that all our brethren and
                    sisters would ever bear in mind the memorable answer, “Thou shalt not tempt the
                    Lord Thy God.”
                But, further, not only is abstinence valuable, nay, indispensable, in order to
                        preserve those rescued out of the power of this great destroyer, but
                        it is equally valuable to prevent others from falling into it. We all
                    profess to believe that prevention is better than cure; seeing, then, that
                    strong drink is proved to be the most dangerous foe to perseverance in
                    righteousness, and the most potent cause of declension, inconsistency, and
                    apostasy, ought not Christians to strive, both by example and precept, to warn
                    the young, the weak, and the inexperienced from
                    touching it? Can any man answer for the consequences of putting a bottle to his
                    neighbour’s mouth, be it ever such a small one, or ever such a
                        genteel one? God has recorded His curse against
                    the man who does this, and thousands of hoary?headed parents, broken?hearted
                    wives, and weeping, blighted children groan their amens to the dreadful
                    sentence! Perchance, there are some men who can take these drinks in what they
                    call moderation, and suffer no visible injury; nevertheless, let that man beware
                    who touches that which God has cursed, for there are injuries invisible more to
                    be dreaded than all the plagues of Egypt!
                But, suppose some people could take these drinks without hurting themselves,
                        will they dare answer for their children? Alas! there are
                    thousands of parents to?day in connection with the various churches of our land,
                    whose gray hairs are sinking in sorrow to the grave through the intemperance of
                    sons and daughters, who first acquired a taste for drink by sipping out of their
                    own glasses, never used but in moderation! I ask these parents, I
                    ask you, Christians, was not the curse of God on the liquor rather
                    than on the size of the glass which contained it; and might not
                    these parents have known, if they did not, that if they sowed the east wind they
                    must reap the whirlwind. If time would permit, we might give illustrations here
                    that would almost wring tears from demons, but doubtless you are familiar with
                    too many already. Christian parents, save your children from this moral
                    pestilence; oh! as you value their happiness, their chastity, their godliness in
                    this life, and their felicity in the next, save them from acquiring a taste for
                    drink. Christian ministers, deacons, elders, members, warn your young
                        people that they come not within the fatal gaze of this moral
                        basilisk. Oh! warn them that they enter not the
                        outermost circle of this eddying maelstrom of perdition,
                    crimsoned already with the blood of myriads once as fair and pure, as virtuous
                    and true, as they are now.
                Oh, Christians! by your peace of conscience on a dying bed; by the eternal destinies of your children; by your
                    concern for the glory of your God; by your care for never?dying souls; by the
                    love you owe your Saviour, I beseech you BANISH THE
                    DRINK. Banish it from your tables, banish it from your houses, and oh!
                    for Christ’s sake, banish it from His house. Put no longer the sacrifice of
                    Christ and of devils on the same altar! Banish also those who manufacture this
                    “distilled damnation” from your communion, aye, from your society. Have no
                    fellowship with those who get rich by robbing man of his reason, woman of her
                    virtue, and children of their patrimony and their bread. Cease to recognise, not
                    only as Christians, but as men, those who fatten on the weakness, wickedness,
                    and suffering of their fellow?men. Hoist the flag of death over their breweries,
                    distilleries, and dram?shops, warning the unwary that death and damnation lurk
                    behind their finely?decorated bars, and run like the lurid fires of perdition
                    through their brightly?polished taps! CHRISTIANS OF ENGLAND! THE
                        TIME HAS COME WHEN TO TRIM ON THIS DRINK QUESTION IS THE HIGHEST TREASON TO
                        THE CAUSE OF CHRIST, AND THE GROSSEST INHUMANITY TO SUFFERING, PERISHING
                        MILLIONS. Tell me no more of charity towards brewers, distillers, and
                    publicans. YOUR FALSE CHARITY TO THESE HAS ALREADY CONSIGNED
                        MILLIONS TO AN UNTIMELY HELL! Tell us not of a charity that takes
                    sides with the Pharisees who devour widows’ houses, and leaves the poor victims
                    of avarice and power to groan, and suffer, and die.
                Tell us not of the charity that would have welded the shackles on three millions
                    of slaves in America yonder, rather than have disturbed the comfort and
                    impoverished the wealth of a few rich planters. Such charity savoureth of the
                    old serpent, its speech betrayeth it. Such was not the charity of Jesus. His
                    charity went out after the suffering multitudes, while it consigned those who
                    gloated on their wrongs and sorrows to their own place, notwithstanding that
                    they garnished the tombs of the prophets and paid tithes of mint, anise, and
                    cummin! But, say some of our Christian friends, we must have patience. We answer we have had long patience,
                    and the times of ignorance both God and man were willing to wink at, but we
                    submit the time for patience has passed. The land is flooded with light,
                        and if these men do not see, it is because they will not.
                    AND THIS IS THE CROWNING, FINISHING CONDEMNATION OF ANY CLASS OF
                        SINNERS, THAT, “LIGHT IS COME INTO THE WORLD, AND MEN LOVE DARKNESS RATHER
                        THAN LIGHT, BECAUSE THEIR DEEDS ARE EVIL,” OR WE MIGHT INTERPRET IT, BECAUSE
                        THEIR GAINS ARE GREAT.
                Charity, were we speaking of? O Christians! look on the multitudes who are led as
                    sheep to the shambles by this great destroyer. Look on thousands, yea, tens of
                    thousands, of your fellow?countrymen, husbands and fathers, robbed at once of
                    their earnings, their manhood, their reason, and turned loose on their hapless
                    wives and children, worse, more unreasonable, tyrannical and savage, than the
                    wild beasts of the forest. Look upon thousands of poor suffering women called
                    wives, who have to endure all a drunkard’s tyranny and fury, while working for
                    the children’s bread, and struggling vainly to keep a home where they may lay
                    their heads. Look on multitudes of our youth, lured from their homes, inspired
                    with contempt of parental counsel, drawn into gay and immoral societies, dragged
                    down from comparative innocence and virtue to idleness, debauchery, and
                    crime!
                Look on hosts of helpless, neglected children, ten times more to be pitied than
                    those whom the heathen mother casts into the Ganges or the Nile; look on their
                    half?starved, half?clad bodies, their untaught, benighted minds and souls, and
                    then say how long this modern Juggernauth shall roll down your streets
                    unchallenged—this chief of 
                        Satan’s
                        Satin's
                     empire sway his spectre over this vaunted Christian land!
                
                    ARISE, CHRISTIANS, ARISE, AND FIGHT THIS FOE! YOU, AND YOU
                        ALONE, ARE ABLE, FOR YOUR GOD WILL FIGHT FOR YOU! OH, COME UP TO HIS HELP
                        AGAINST THIS MIGHTY CHAMPION OF HELL, AND HE WILT EMPOWER YOU TO LAY HIM
                        LOW, AND TAKE ALL HIS ARMOUR WHEREIN HE TRUSTED.
                
            
            
            
                WORLDLY AMUSEMENT AND CHRISTIANITY.
                WE  are constantly meeting with persons in perplexity as to how far they
                    may participate in worldly amusements without compromising their Christian
                    profession. Many confess having been for years in controversy on the subject of
                    attending or assisting at concerts, penny readings, and gatherings of a similar
                    though more private and social character, and not a few have admitted having
                    suffered spiritual loss and declension through being mixed up with such
                    entertainments. On this question there seems to be amongst the Lord’s professing
                    people a sad 
                        indefiniteness
                        indefinitencss
                     of view. Indeed, many appear to have no settled convictions on the
                    subject. Hence, we fear, arises much of the abounding worldliness, that prevails
                    in the Church, and hence the extinction of the demarcation line between so many
                    thousands of the professing Christians of our day and the ungodly throngs around
                    them.
                
                        We
                        Wr
                     propose 
                        briefly
                        brieffy
                     in this paper to consider, First, is it lawful and
                    secondly, is it expedient for CHRISTIANS
                    either to provide or attend such entertainments as penny readings, concerts,
                    private theatricals, and the like?
                I.—Is it lawful? To the law and to the testimony. What saith the
                    Scriptures? “For thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God; the Lord thy God
                    hath chosen thee to be a special people unto
                    Himself, above all the people that are upon the face of the earth.” (Deut. vii.
                    6.) “And ye shall be holy unto me: for I the Lord am holy, and have severed you
                    from other people, that ye should be mine.” (Lev. xx. 26.) “Be not conformed to
                    this world; but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may
                    prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God.” (Rom. xii. 2.)
                    “If ye were of the world, the world would love his own; but because ye are not
                    of the world, therefore the world hateth you.” (John xv. 19.) “For all that is
                    in the world, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father,
                    but is of the world.” (1 John ii. 16.) “Wherefore come out from among them, and
                    be ye SEPARATE, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean
                    thing: and I will receive you, and will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my
                    sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.” (2 Cor. vi. 17-18) “Whosoever
                    therefore will be the friend of the world is the enemy of God.” (James iv.
                    4.)
                We presume that all Christians attach SOME meaning to such
                    passages as these; but one says they do not apply to this worldly custom, and
                    another says they do not apply to that, until, as in the case of the Mahometan
                    pig, the whole is swallowed, and every worldly?minded professor manages to get
                    the piece he likes best, or which appears most to his interest: thus the law of
                    Christ is frittered away, and the whole body of his professing Church given over
                    to the god of this world. What then is the conformity to, and
                    friendship with the world, which these and a host of similar passages prohibit?
                    In other words, what is worldliness?
                We reply—1st. We take that to be worldly which professes to be so. Neither men
                    nor things are, as a rule, better than they profess to be.
                2nd. We take that to be worldly which, in sentiment and spirit, the children of
                    the world love, esteem, and enjoy.
                3rd. We count whatever has no reference to God, righteous? ness or eternity, which “savoureth not of the things
                    of God,” as worldly.
                4th. Everything that is adverse in spirit to the dignity, gravity, and usefulness
                    of the Christian character we regard as worldly.
                It seems to us that these propositions are so self?evident, that no thoughtful
                    Christian can gainsay them. Some professors seem to regard nothing as worldly
                    which is not absolutely devilish, such as profanity, blasphemy, or obscenity.
                    But the Scriptures carefully and clearly distinguish between the two. They
                    prohibit Christians conforming to the world in all the habits and usages of
                    daily life.
                They are not to talk like the world, in the way of foolish jesting,
                    “swelling words,” “insincere speech,” &c. But, on the contrary, their
                    conversation is to “be seasoned with salt, meet to administer grace to the
                    hearers.” It is to be “pure, proceeding from a good (not a doubtful)
                    conscience.” It is to be “in heaven, from whence we look for the appearing of
                    our Lord Jesus Christ.”
                The Scriptures prohibit Christians dressing like the world. “Whose
                    adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of
                    wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel.” (1 Peter iii. 3.) “In like manner
                    also, that women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with shamefacedness and
                    sobriety, not with braided hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly
                    array; but which becometh women professing godliness, with good works.” (1 Tim.
                    ii. 9, 10.) “Moreover the Lord saith, Because the daughters of Zion
                    are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and
                    mincing as they go: therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the
                    crown of the head of the daughters of Zion.” (Isa. iii. 16, 17.) We commend this
                    whole chapter to the consideration of all whom it may concern, and we would
                    suggest that as the Lord Jehovah regarded the dress of those Israelitish women
                    as a sign of their backslidden condition, and thought it sufficiently important to be recorded by his holy prophet, it may
                    be well for us to consider how far the same signs are manifest amongst us in our
                    day.
                The Scriptures prohibit Christians singing the songs of the world, for they
                    expressly enjoin that when they are merry or glad they are to sing psalms and
                    make melody in their heart UNTO THE LORD.
                The Scriptures prohibit Christians from joining in the amusements of the world;
                    forbidding any fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness,
                    commanding to abstain from the very appearance of evil, and TO
                        COME OUT FROM AMONGST THE UNGODLY AND BE SEPARATE; and our Lord
                    declared that his real disciples were not of the world, even as he was not of
                    the world.
                Now in light of these Scriptures, and of the propositions we have laid down, let
                    us examine the character of some of the entertainments so popular with many
                    professing Christians. We find that it is no uncommon thing for entertainments
                    to be held in private drawing?rooms and in rooms connected with churches and
                    chapels, over which ministers and leading men in churches preside, at which
                    Shakespearian readings are given, with extracts from the works of the most
                    popular and worldly novelists, and the same songs sung as are echoed and
                    applauded in the public?house and the dancing?room.
                Now, viewed in the light of the Scriptures we have quoted and tried by the
                    propositions we have drawn from them, how do these practices strike you,
                    Christian reader?
                1st. Are they not professedly worldly? Do they not savour of the
                    world, all of the world, and of the world only? Were not the authors of the
                    things said and sung at such entertainments thoroughly Christless men, and some
                    of them professed infidels?
                2nd. Are not these the songs and sentiments which worldlings have always claimed
                    as their own? Are they not sung in their ball?rooms, theatres, and casinoes? And
                    is not this proof enough that they are
                    congenial to their tastes, and in keeping with their spirit?
                3rd. Such songs, recitations, and performances have no reference whatever to God,
                    righteousness, or eternity. God is not only “not in all their thoughts,” but he
                    is not in any of them, therefore they must be thoroughly worldly.
                4th. The spirit of such amusements is manifestly adverse to the dignity, gravity,
                    and usefulness of the Christian character. What are its effects? Lightness,
                    foolish jesting, a false estimate of creature delights, obtuseness to spiritual
                    things, and frequently uproarious merriment and godless mirth.
                We put it to any Christian who has ever allowed himself to take part in such
                    amusements whether these are not their inevitable and bitter fruits, and whether
                    he has not found their spirit to be utterly antagonistic to the spirit of
                    Christ? We have heard many backsliders in heart attribute their declension to
                    mingling in such scenes of folly and frivolity, and we never met with one whom
                    we had reason to believe had been renewed in the spirit of his mind who could
                    say he could enter into them without condemnation.
                Doubtless there are thousands of professing Christians who live in perpetual
                    strife with their consciences and with the Holy Spirit on this subject; and
                    verily they have their reward. Trying to hold Christ in one hand and the world
                    in the other, they lose both. They have no joy in their godless amusements,
                    neither have they any joy in the Lord. All is darkness, condemnation, and death.
                    “Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is
                    enmity with God?”
                The testimony of the Word is too explicit, and the voice of the Spirit too clear,
                    for any child of God to err for want of light if he will but listen to his
                    Divine counsellor. But, alas! too many seek to silence His voice by vain and
                    worldly reasoning, lowering the standard which He has given them because
                        somebody else does so. They do not hear him saying, “What is that to thee? follow thou me.” “Love not the world,
                    neither the things of the world. If any man love the world the love of the
                    Father is not in him.”
                Not only is the testimony of the Word and of the Spirit against these amusements,
                    but the testimony and example of the most devoted and intelligent Christians of
                    all ages have been against them. The following are a few extracts bearing on the
                    subject:—
                
                    
                        “There is no earthly pleasure which has not the inseparable attendance of
                            grief—and that following it as closely as Jacob came after Esau. Yea,
                            worldly delight is but a shadow; and when we catch after it, all that we
                            grasp is substantial sorrow in its room. The honey should not be very
                            delightful, when the sting is so near.”—
                    
                    Alleine.
                
                
                    
                        “If there be any sorceress upon earth it is Pleasure; which so enchanteth
                            the minds of men, and worketh the disturbance of our peace with such
                            secret delight, that foolish men think this want of
                                tranquillity happiness. She turneth man into swine with
                            such sweet charms, that they would not change their brutish nature for
                            their former reason.”—
                    
                    Bishop Hall.
                
                
                    
                        “Consider, this is not the season that should be for pleasure! The
                            apostle James lays it as a great charge upon many in his time, that they
                            lived in pleasure on earth. This is the time to do the great business
                            for which we were born.”—
                    
                    Ambrose.
                
                
                    
                        “How often shall it be protested to the Christian world, by men of the
                            greatest seriousness and devotion, that it is vain to dream of entering
                            the kingdom of heaven hereafter, except the kingdom of heaven enter into
                            their souls in this life? How long shall the Son of God, who came into
                            the world to be the most glorious example of purity, self?denial, and
                            mortification—how long shall He lie by in his word as an antiquated
                            pattern, only cut out for the apostolic ages, and only suited to some
                            few morose and melancholy men? With what face can we pretend to true
                            religion, or a feeling acquaintance with God, and the things of his
                            kingdom, whilst the continual bleatings and lowings of our souls after creature good betray us so
                            manifestly, and proclaim before all the world, that the beast, the
                            brutish life, is still so powerful in us?”—
                    
                    Shaw.
                
                
                    
                        “I would, that you should use this world as not abusing it, that you
                            should be crucified to the world, and the world to you, that you should
                            declare plainly that you seek a better country, which is an heavenly.
                            Ah! my dear brethren, I beseech you carry it like pilgrims and
                            strangers, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul; FOR WHAT HAVE WE TO DO with the customs and
                                fashions of this world, who are strangers in it? Be contented
                            with travellers’ lots; know you not that you are in a strange
                            land?”—
                    
                    Joseph Alleine’s Letters.
                
                
                    
                        “I would dissuade thee from unnecessary society of ungodly men, and
                            unprofitable companions, though they be not so apparently ungodly. It is
                            not only the openly profane, the swearer, the drunkard, that will prove
                            hurtful to us; but the dead?hearted formalists, or persons merely civil
                            and moral, or whose conference is empty, unsavoury, and barren, may much
                            divert our thoughts from heaven. As mere idleness and forgetting God
                            will keep a soul as certainly from heaven as a profane licentious life;
                            so also will useless company as surely keep our hearts from
                            heaven.”—
                    
                    Baxter.
                
                
                    
                        “In speaking of the laws and limits of recreation, observe generally,
                            that whatever is offensive to God, whatever is injurious to others,
                            whatever is hurtful, whether remotely or proximately to our own soul or
                            body, is evil; to be avoided in ourselves and to be condemned in others.
                            The principles involved in the foregoing remarks will answer the queries
                            so frequently put—Is it right to frequent a theatre?—to attend the
                            ball?room?—to sit at the card table?—to mingle indiscriminately in gay
                            and fashionable society? The study of the Bible quotations so largely
                            made will furnish a reply. Read and you will know.”—
                    
                    Samuel Martin.
                
                
                    
                        “‘I bade farewell for ever,’ she says, ‘to assemblies which I had
                            visited, to plays and diversions, dancing, unprofitable walks, and parties of pleasure. The amusements and
                            pleasures, so much prized and esteemed by the world, now appeared to me
                            dull and insipid—so much so, that I wondered how I ever could have
                            enjoyed them.’”—
                    
                    Madame Guyon.
                
                
                    
                        “I heard also that this new clergyman preached against all my favourite
                            diversions, such as going to plays, reading novels, attending balls,
                            assemblies, card tables,&c.
                        “I asked, ‘Is it true that he preaches against dancing?’ I said I was
                            resolved to take the first opportunity of conversing with him, being
                            certain I could easily prove such amusements were not sinful. Being told
                            what arguments he made use of, I revolved them in my mind, fully
                            determined if I found upon reflection I could answer them, I would.
                        “I first considered if any Scripture example could be brought, .. but
                            found nothing there which countenanced dancing in any measure. I then
                            began to consider the objections urged against it. One of them was, that
                            as it tends to lively and trifling mirth, so it enervates the mind,
                            dissipates the thoughts, weakens if not stifles serious and good
                            impressions, and quite indisposes the mind for prayer. I asked in my own
                            mind, Is not this a truth? Conscience answered in the affirmative.
                        After much controversy, consideration, and prayer, she says:
                        “For my own part I was conscious that it led me to dress and expenses not
                            suited to my present situation in life. These thoughts brought powerful
                            convictions to my mind, notwithstanding my desire to resist them. I
                            could not deny that truth, in particular, and those who habitually
                            attend such pleasures lose all relish for spiritual things. God is shut
                            out of their thoughts and hearts; prayer, if they use any, is full of
                            wanderings, or perhaps, wholly neglected; and death put as far as
                            possible out of sight, lest the thought should spoil their
                            pleasure.”—
                    
                    Mrs. Rogers.
                
                Did our space permit we could give hundreds of quotations of similar bearing by
                    such writers as Augustine, Thomas a’Kempis, Luther, Knox, Howe, Leighton,
                    Newton, Cecil, Henry, Locke, Bunyan, Whitfield,
                    Wesley, Clarke, Barnes, Steir, Doddridge, Young, and others. But our space
                    prevents the calling of these witnesses. Christian reader, let those we have
                    called suffice.
                “As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in
                    your ignorance, but as He which hath called you is holy, so ye be holy in all
                    manner of conversation.”
                II. We come now to the question of expediency.
                The principal arguments brought forward by Christians in favour of providing and
                    attending worldly amusements are—
                1st. Seeing that our young people will have amusement, it is better
                    to provide them with that which is moral and comparatively innocent, than to
                    drive them to that which is positively vicious.
                2nd. Seeing that we cannot get hold of the unconverted by the Gospel, it is
                    better to meet them half way, and try, as it were, to catch them by guile.
                These arguments look very plausible: let us honestly consider them in the light
                    of Scripture and actual experience. 1st. On whose behalf are they urged? Are the
                    young people referred to the children of Christian parents, or the children of
                    votaries of this world? If the latter, we reply that Christians are nowhere
                    taught, either directly or indirectly, that it is any part of their duty to
                    provide amusement for the children of this world; nay, the direct
                    teaching and the whole tenor of Scripture go to prove that it is their duty to
                    seek to alarm and convict them. There is not a line in the whole Bible on which
                    an argument can be built for amusing people while yet in their
                    sins. The Scriptures ever represent the unconverted as under condemnation, in
                    imminent danger, ready to be destroyed, a state rendering them far more fit
                    objects for pity, concern, and earnest Christian effort than for
                        amusement. To keep them amused and self?satisfied is just what
                    Satan desires, and all the better for his purpose if he can get it done by
                    professed Christians.
                Well, but, say some of our expediency friends, if by getting unconverted young people to attend our penny
                    readings, moral concerts, and private parties where dancing, charades, and such
                    like pastimes are practised, we can show them that religion is not such a
                    melancholy thing as they have imagined, and that to become Christians need not
                    exclude them from such recreations, may we not hope so to induce them to attend
                    our sanctuaries, and thus get them converted by our more direct Christian
                    instrumentalities? We answer, IF you could thus promote
                    good by doing evil, the end would fail to justify the means, for God says,“to
                    obey is better than sacrifice;” but there is the if still
                    undisposed of. We ask, does this worldly policy succeed? Do your evening
                    parties, your miniature 
                        pantomimes
                        pantomines
                    , dancing, and song singing, lead to the conversion of “Our young
                    people?” Do the hodge?podge mixtures of Christ and Shakspeare, Paul and Dickens
                    of our times, serve to fill our sanctuaries, and bring the people to Jesus? Nay,
                    verily; the crowds who will go fast enough to hear their favourite songs and
                    flippant rhymes piped through the instruments of the temple on the week night,
                    remorselessly leave those who have stooped to pander to their taste to chant the
                    songs of Zion to empty pews on the Sabbath.
                But supposing that in some instances worldlings are won by these means, what of
                    all the mischief that is done? These amusements are pleaded for on the ground
                    that they will save our young people from those of a vicious and immoral
                    character, but we contend that they are quite as likely, in many instances, to
                    pave the way to the vicious, as in others to save from it. They
                    will do this:
                1st. By throwing over that which is purely sensuous and godless, and therefore
                    sinful, the sanctity of association with Christ and religion.
                2nd. By lowering the standard of the purity and sanctity of the Christian
                    character.
                3rd. By destroying the respect and awe with which many of the unconverted have
                    been accustomed to regard Christianity and Christian Ministers.
                
                4th. By begetting a sense of security in sin, leading them to say,“We cannot be
                    so very far wrong, or these Christians would not associate with us, and find
                    pleasure in our amusements. There is not so much difference between us after
                    all.” We fear that by these and similar means, the half?awakened conscience of
                    many a young man and woman has been silenced, and their hearts hardened; and
                    instead of being won from vice, they have been driven faster into it. Alas, who
                    can tell the convictions that are stifled, the serious impressions that are
                    lost, the good resolutions that are scattered, and the heavenly aspirations that
                    are blasted in these religious pantomimes, these Christian?Belial festivities!
                    Many sad stories come out, but eternity alone will reveal their full and awful
                    consequences.
                But the argument of expediency is not only urged on behalf of our unconverted
                    young people, but (O tell it not in Gath!) also on behalf of the children of
                    professing Christians! “What are we to do?” say some professedly Christian
                    parents. “Our children must have recreation and amusement, and unless we allow
                    them to mingle to some extent in fashionable society, and attend such parties as
                    you refer to, we must needs keep them out of society altogether, and make
                    recluses of them, for all our Christian friends patronise such entertainments,
                    and consider them innocent and lawful.” If this be true, we reply, that it
                    reveals more clearly than anything we could say, the backslidden and awful state
                    of the professing Church, and calls loudly for some attempt to stem the tide of
                    worldly conformity, while there remains a spark of spiritual life in her
                    midst.
                Alas, and has it come to pass that there is no strictly Christian social
                    intercourse and enjoyment? Have the topics of our glorious Christianity become
                    so stale and uninteresting? Have the themes of Gospel enterprise and individual
                    effort lost all their inspiration? Have the songs of Zion lost their enchanting
                    and inspiriting influence? Has the voice of social prayer become quite silent?
                    Has every spark of real enthusiasm in religion gone out, that when Christians
                    want to find INTEREST and ENJOY?
                    MENT, they must seek it in themes and things peculiarly
                    belonging to the god of this world, and his votaries? Has it come to pass that
                    Christians have so little confidence in the God of the Bible, and the religion
                    of Jesus, that they must seek an alliance between Christ and the world in order
                    to interest their children and save them from open profligacy and
                    vice? If so, how does this reflect on themselves? What sort of training does it
                    imply? Have they trained their sons and daughters so truly in the
                        spirit of the world, under the garb of a religious profession,
                    that nothing but the most sensuous amusements of worldlings (who make any
                    pretence to morality) will satisfy them? Has it come to pass that the children
                    of CHRISTIANS must dress like harlots,—dance, sing songs,
                    read novels, attend concerts, where worldly and even comic songs are sung,
                    evoking uproarious laughter and unseemly jests? and all this for their
                        amusement, their parents, and even ministers, looking on: and
                    striving by the most blind and wicked perversion of the word of God, to justify
                    their worldliness and salve their consciences? ALAS, IT HAS COME
                        TO THIS! “Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of
                    tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my
                    people.”
                Well, I think I hear some Christian say, “What is to be done?” Done!
                    Let every one who has any convictions on this subject ACT ON THEM. Half the mischief has resulted from Christians
                    turning away from the simple teachings of the word in order to pander to one
                    another; “measuring themselves amongst themselves,” instead of measuring
                    themselves by the standard of the Word. We have heard them say, “Well, I never
                    felt quite satisfied that such things were right or consistent; but then, many
                    far higher in Christian attainments than I am allow them; and it seems like
                    condemning others, and making one’s self to be holier than they.” Thus the voice
                    of individual conscience has been stifled, and the standard gradually lowered,
                    until Christ and Shakespeare are openly affianced, and Paul and Dickens
                    bracketed together as equal benefactors of their race.
                
                “But what am I to do?” is the still recurring cry of some timid Christian mother
                    or father. “Must I keep my children out of society altogether?” Yes, verily, if
                    you cannot find any truly Christian society for them. Humble yourself deeply
                    before God for having trained your children with worldly tastes and
                    associations, and set yourself, as far as possible, to remedy the evil. Get more
                        spirituality, more real life, and you will find your religion
                    astonishingly more interesting both to yourself and to your
                    children. “Well, but my children must have companions.” Oh no, there is no
                        must in the case; better live without them than have such as
                    lead them away from God, and into friendship with the world. If you
                    have not yet learnt this, I fear you have never realised your responsibility to
                    God for your children’s souls. Do you regard your children as your
                        own or the Lord’s?—If your own, you will train them on
                    worldly principles; but if the Lord’s, you will surely train them for Him, that
                    they may serve their generation according to HIS
                        WILL. You have nothing to do with consequences; it is yours to obey.
                    God will take care of His own. Act on your convictions of duty. If
                    you stand alone in your family—your circle—your church—never mind; ACT for yourself, as you must give account for yourself.
                    Perhaps, if you make a beginning, somebody else will follow. Somebody must
                    begin—somebody must make a stand, why not you? You say,“I am so
                    uninfluential—so weak—and the cross will be so heavy.” All the more blessing in
                    carrying it; and He who chooses the weak things will bless your testimony, and
                    use it for His glory. Only “honour God, and He will honour you.”
                But I must hasten to consider the second argument urged in support of this
                    expediency Christianity.
                “Seeing that the Gospel fails to attract our young people, it is better to meet
                    them half?way, and try, as it were, to catch them by guile.” We reply, 1st, Is
                    the success of the Gospel dependent on worldly expediency or on
                        spiritual power? If on the former, we can see the force of this
                    argument; but if on the latter, it is utterly irrelevant. There are but two
                    kinds of  influence or power in operation in
                    the Church; the material and the spiritual. Jesus
                    Christ utterly and continually abjured the material as being of any value in His
                    kingdom. He systematically ignored, both by example and precept, all the
                    influence of mere learning—traditional religion—wealth—position—worldly power
                    and policy: and steadily maintained that “His kingdom was not of this world.” He
                    solemnly abjured all other kinds of influence or power save that of the DIVINE, and laboured incessantly to imbue His disciples
                    with the conviction that nothing short of this endowment could empower them for
                    their work. (Acts i. 4,5; Luke xxiv. 48, 49; John xv.)
                We all know how completely Paul and his fellow apostles learnt this lesson, and
                    how they continually gloried in the testimony that it was “not by might nor by
                    power, but by the Spirit of the Lord,” that they did all their wonderful works.
                    While the early Christians were true to the example and teaching of their
                    Master, we never find them bemoaning their lack of ability to attract or to
                    convert the people. So mighty was their influence, though comparatively few in
                    number, and insignificant in social position, that wherever they went they were
                    said to have “turned the world upside down,” and large and flourishing churches
                    sprang up in all directions. THEY did not feel the
                    necessity for any half?way meeting place between themselves and the world;
                        they did not lower the tone of their Christian morality in
                    order to meet the corrupt and heathenish notions of those around them; neither
                    did they abjure their spirituality lest it should disgust them. On the contrary,
                    the apostles and early Christians seem to have had the conviction that the more
                    complete their devotion to their Master,—the more separate from the
                    world,—the more truly spiritual and divine they were,—the greater would be their
                    influence for God, and the greater their success in winning men to Christ. It
                    never seems to have entered into their minds to descend from the high vantage
                    ground on which their Lord had placed them, to fight the enemy with his own
                    weapons, and to try to cast him out by a
                    partial conformity to his darling lusts (1 John ii. 16). The source of their
                    power was DIVINE; therefore they needed no adjuncts of
                    human policy, or of worldly expedience. They were mighty “THROUGH GOD,” and could well dispense with the heathen poets and
                    fashionable novelists of their times. Their preaching was “with the
                    demonstration of the SPIRIT and of POWER;” consequently, multitudes listened, believed, and turned to
                    the Lord.
                It was not until the primitive Christians began to admit worldly principles of
                    action, and to substitute the material for the spiritual, that their influence
                    began to wane, and their testimony to lose its power. It was the gradual
                    substitution of the human for the divine, the material for the spiritual, that
                    overspread Christendom for ages with papal darkness and death. During that long
                    night of error and suffering, however, God raised up many witnesses to the
                    sufficiency of the Holy Ghost to attract and convert men—many making long
                    pilgrimages, and suffering great privations, in order to visit and converse with
                    those endued with this Divine Gift. And when at length the light of the
                    Reformation broke over the nations, this one great lesson was again engraven on
                    the hearts of God’s chosen instruments: “It is not by might, nor by power, but
                    by MY SPIRIT, saith the Lord of Hosts!” Thus, after the
                    lapse of ages, we find the Gospel, when preached with the old power, the same
                    mighty instrumentality, both for attracting the multitudes and
                    converting the soul.
                From the Reformation down to the present time, we find that wherever the same
                    Gospel has been preached with the same accompanying power, the same results have
                    followed, even when the preacher has been trammelled by a false creed, or beset
                    with hosts of opposing influences from earth and hell. Where the Spirit of the
                    Lord is, there spiritual miracles are wrought, and wherever
                    miracles are wrought, the people will congregate; be it by the
                    river?side, in the temple, in kirk, church, chapel, theatre, meeting?house,
                    attic, or cellar. There is no quicker detective
                    of the presence of the Spirit of Jesus than the spirit which worketh in the
                    hearts of the children of disobedience. But He has always been more than a match
                    for would?be exorcists. “Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are
                    ye?”
                You will perceive, Christian reader, that we regard this plea, “that the Gospel
                    fails to attract,” as a very suspicious one. We ask those who urge it, in the
                    light of the foregoing summary of facts, to tell us, WHY IT
                        FAILS? We have no hesitation in saying ONLY
                    for want of the HOLY GHOST. The great desideratum in
                    connection with all our organisations, societies, churches, agencies, and
                    instrumentalities, is LIFE! LIFE!! LIFE!!! The people
                    want a LIVING GOSPEL, preached by LIVING SPIRIT?BAPTIZED SOULS. Dare we, in the
                    light of the past, instead of this Divine bread, give them the stone of
                    materialism? If so we must prepare for the consequences.
            
            
            
                HEART BACKSLIDING.
                
                    
                        1. Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write: These things saith he
                            that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst
                            of the seven golden candlesticks;
                        2. I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst
                            not bear them which are evil; and thou hast tried them which say they
                            are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars:
                        3. And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name’s sake hast
                            laboured and hast not fainted.
                        4. Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou
                            hast left thy first love.
                        5. Remember therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do
                            the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove
                            thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.
                    
                
                AS introductory to my remarks on this passage, I want you to observe
                    that this is a direct message from Christ Himself to a company of His own people
                    in a certain state of religious experience. These Ephesians were Christians,
                    born into the family of God, and for a long time, and to a great extent, had
                    faithfully served Him. Hear what He says of them in this second verse: “I know
                    thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them
                    which are evil; and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are
                    not, and hast found them liars: and hast borne,
                    and hast patience, and for my name’s sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.”
                    He sums up their character most carefully, giving them the utmost credit for all
                    the fruits of the Spirit found in them. He remembers their labour, their
                    patience, their hatred of evil, their zeal for His glory in their intolerance of
                    false teachers, their constancy in suffering, their purity of motive, and their
                    continuance in well doing. Not one of their good deeds is forgotten before Him;
                    but the brilliancy and preciousness of the whole is marred by one defect which
                    only he could see, but which his love and faithfulness compelled him to reveal
                    and to reprove. “Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast
                    left thy first love.”
                After such a repetition of their fidelities and graces, we, in our carnal wisdom,
                    might have looked for a THEREFORE, instead of a NEVERTHELESS. We might have expected Him to say, “Thou 
                        hast
                        has
                     laboured for me with much zeal, patience, and perseverance; therefore,
                    I will excuse and pass over thy declension in love, thy defection of heart.”
                    This is the way in which many of God’s people seem to imagine that He regards
                    heart unfaithfulness; but not so the Lord Himself. Notwithstanding all their
                    labours, sufferings, patience, and zeal, He had a nevertheless against them,
                    which compelled his reproof and endangered his anger.
                And oh, is not this his attitude towards thousands of his people now? Is not this
                    message to these Ephesian Christians equally applicable to multitudes in our
                    day, who are serving Him with much zeal and patience; but they have left their
                    first love, and are, notwithstanding all their outward professions and labour,
                    backsliders in heart? Some of you start at the use of such a phrase, and you
                    say, “But these Ephesians were not backsliders.” Not in the general acceptation
                    of the term, but in the estimation of their Lord they were backsliders in heart.
                    They had partially fallen, partially gone from that whole?hearted service which
                    once they rendered Him, and without which all
                    outward works, however worthy or zealous, will not suffice. I fear that after
                    this manner the great majority of Christians are backsliders. I have conversed
                    with numbers up and down this land, and many who have occupied prominent
                    positions in Christian Churches, who have confessed that they were secret
                    backsliders, having lost much that they once enjoyed, and walking far less
                    carefully than they once did. Taking these as representatives of others in
                    similar circumstances I say, I cannot but fear that a very large majority of
                    professing Christians have, like these Ephesian converts, left their first love.
                    I have no doubt that there are many of this class here this morning, and I
                    desire to speak especially to these.
                Let me entreat you, my dear friends, to open your hearts to the reception of the
                    truth. Forget the feeble instrumentality through which it comes, and if it
                    commends itself to your consciences as God’s truth, let it have its full weight
                    upon your hearts. If you are right, it will do you no harm to examine
                    yourselves. It will establish you and help you “to assure your hearts before
                    Him.” And if you are not right, who can tell the importance of making the
                    discovery in time, while there is opportunity and grace offered by which you may
                    be made right? I beseech you be honest with yourselves and with God. There is
                    nothing to be gained by crying, “Peace, peace,” when there is no peace. It is of
                    no use trying to persuade yourselves that you are right with God if your
                    consciences tell you that you are not. You will find your consciousness too
                    strong for all the false theories of men and devils, and true peace will be
                    impossible to you until you come back to your first love. I think I hear some
                    one say, “Ah! That is just what I want! But how am I to do it? I know that I am
                    a backslider in heart; it is not with me now as it once was; but I have tried
                    and tried in vain to get back what I once enjoyed, and to live as I once lived.”
                    My dear friend, you have not tried in the right way. Try your Lord’s way; take
                    his counsel, obey his commands, and you shall not only get back all you have lost, but an abundant increase of
                    peace and power. This way, as pointed out here, seems to me to be—
                1. Remember:—realise your unfaithfulness.
                2. Repent:—humble yourself, confess and renounce your sin.
                3. Do your first works:—consecration and faith.
                1. Remember:—realise your unfaithfulness. Remember from whence thou art fallen.
                    There are different degrees of backsliding; some have fallen from greater
                    heights, and some to lower depths than others. But if you ever were higher on
                    the ladder of Christian experience than you are this morning, to just that
                    extent you are a backslider. Our Lord does not wish us to condemn ourselves for
                    losing that which we never possessed; but to remember from whence,
                    the exact degree of spiritual attainment we once realised, and to compare our
                    present state with it. “Remember!” consider it, ponder over it; strive to
                    realise it as the evil and bitter thing it is.
                We fear that numbers of Christians reach a fearful degree of backsliding without
                    knowing it. “Gray hairs are here and there upon Ephraim, and he knoweth it not;”
                    and no wonder; they are so occupied with the externals of religion; they are so
                    absorbed in business, or care, or pleasure, that they have no time to remember.
                    They never stop to compare notes, to observe the landmarks, or take the
                    soundings of their spiritual state. They have no time for the old?fashioned duty
                    of self?examination; or if they have, it is so distasteful that they prefer to
                    read, or hear, or talk. Sometimes the Holy Spirit, by some word of God, some
                    sermon, or providence, flashes the conviction on their minds that they have lost
                    ground, that they “have forsaken Him, the fountain of living water, and hewed
                    them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.” But the conviction
                    is painful; they are afraid of the revelation, they shrink from the consequences
                    of its admission even to themselves, and instead of honestly examining into
                        the state of their hearts, they fall back
                    upon their conversion and early experience, and say, “Surely it must be all
                    right with me, although I have no communion with God, no sensible joy or peace,
                    and but little power over sin. I must be a child of God. Salvation is by faith,
                    not by works; God does not look at me, but at Jesus.” Instead of remembering
                        from whence they have fallen, they look only to
                        what they have fallen, and try to accommodate the requirements of the
                    word to their miserable experience. Having lost the faith that purifies the
                    heart and manifests its existence by obedience, they try to take refuge in an
                    antinomian faith, which does neither the one or the other—a faith which makes
                    void the law of God, and makes Christ the minister of sin. Thank God, however,
                    they cannot get peace this way; their countenances belie their creed, and their
                    powerless lives tell to all around that they have only got the shell without the
                    kernel, the form without the power.
                If there are any of this class here this morning, my friends, I beseech you take
                        YOUR LORD’S counsel—“Remember from whence you have
                    fallen.” Reflect on what you once enjoyed. How was it with you in days gone by?
                    Let me help you to remember by a few practical questions. Did you not once
                    realise a sweet and blessed sense of your acceptance with God? and did not His
                    Spirit witness with your spirit that you were a child of God? and did you not
                    realise that “there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ
                    Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit?” How is it with you
                    now? As you received the Lord Jesus, have you so walked in Him that your path
                    has been like that of the just, shining brighter and brighter unto the perfect
                    day? or have you lost your roll and with it your peace and the joy of the Lord
                    which once was your strength? Again, did you not once walk in daily communion
                    with God, your prayers being not merely petitions, but mediums of sensible
                    intercourse with Him? and did not his candle
                    shine brightly on your head? What of your present experience in this respect? Do
                    you still rejoice in this light? or are you groping after Him as an absent and
                    far?distant God? You once realised the power of Christ to rest upon you, so that
                    you were more than conqueror over the world, the flesh, and the devil; sin had
                    no more dominion over you
                        ;
                         
                     “old things were passed away;” the old spirit of bondage and the
                    helpless misery of a merely convicted state were passed away, and you could
                    sing, “Thanks be unto God, who giveth us the victory through Jesus Christ;” and,
                    “I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me.”
                How is it with you? Do you walk in the liberty wherewith Christ made you free? or
                    are you gone back to the spirit of bondage again to fear, and to the
                    helplessness of your convicted state, by reason of which you are crying, “O,
                    wretched man that I am!” If so, oh, “remember from whence thou art fallen.”
                Your conscience was once tender as the apple of the eye; you eschewed evil, and
                    kept as far from its very appearance as you could. You had no fellowship with
                    the godless multitudes who crucified your Lord, and trampled under foot His
                    blessed laws. You kept as far aloof from the world as you might, weeping over
                    its sins, and looking down with pity on its hollow amusements. What is your
                    present attitude in this matter? Are you still separate from sinners, following
                    the Lamb wheresoever He goeth? or has the daughter of Zion come down from her
                    holy mountain, and defiled herself with the abominations of the heathen round
                    about? You were once full of zeal for the glory of your Divine Deliverer, and
                    the salvation of those for whom He died. You could then reprove sin, and weep
                    over and expostulate with sinners. You could deny yourself almost your necessary
                    sleep and food, in order to promote the interests of your Redeemer’s kingdom.
                    Where is now your zeal for the Lord of Hosts? Can you deny self, sacrifice your
                    ease, honour, reputation, or wealth, for his glory, as you once did? Re? member! Compare your present state with your
                    former one. Let conscience speak, let facts speak, and honestly admit the truth;
                    and if you are condemned, write yourself down—Backslider in heart. You say, “I
                    do not like the conclusion.” Perhaps not; but if it be true, honesty will be the
                    best policy here, as in everything else. Look the fact in the face, and try to
                    realise its desperate meaning. I fear too many Christians have far too light an
                    estimate of heart?unfaithfulness. I have sometimes heard them speak of five or
                    ten years’ half?heartedness as a very light thing, slurring it over, as it were,
                    with a very thin and superficial sort of confession; but our Lord does not so
                    regard it; He looks upon it as a very serious matter, a very heinous sin, a most
                    God?dishonouring experience; so much so, that He threatens these Ephesian
                    backsliders that, unless they repent, notwithstanding all their good works, He
                    will come unto them in judgment, and remove their candlestick out of its
                    place.
                This is a far greater sin than any you ever committed before you were converted;
                    and you must look at it, reflect on it, remember it, until you have realised its
                    bitterness. Do not be afraid because of the painfulness of the process. Painful
                    operations are often necessary to save life. If you had a bad wound, which
                    required examining and probing, you would not say to the surgeon, “I cannot bear
                    to look at it; I cannot endure the pain of dressing; cover it up, and let it
                    alone.” No! you would know that, painful as would be the process of probing and
                    dressing, it was necessary to save your limb, and perhaps your life; and you
                    would, like a reasonable being, endure the pain, and save your life. Just so, if
                    you have spiritual wounds; they need probing, and perhaps cauterising, before
                    they can be healed; and it is of no use to shrink from the knife of the Great
                    Physician. He knows that it will cause pain; yea, bitter anguish; yet he says,
                    “Remember!” Oh, my backsliding friend, bare your heart before Him who walks amid
                    the golden candlesticks, and ask Him to search it as with a lighted candle. Ask for the realizing light of the
                    Holy Spirit to reveal to you your backslidings, and to set your secret sins in
                    the light of His countenance. Ask Him to help you to remember by quickening your
                    spiritual perceptions, and opening your eyes, to see the monstrous ingratitude
                    and cruel infidelity of which you have been guilty. Instead of refusing to
                    remember, because of the mental suffering involved in the process, methinks we
                    should rejoice to suffer. Seeing that we have wounded our Lord in the house of
                    His friends, we ought to be willing to weep our lives away, at the remembrance
                    of our sin, and if we could, to shed tears of blood, as an evidence of our
                    penitence. To have been unfaithful to His saving grace; to have been untrue to
                    His dying love; to have withheld from Him that which He purchased with His
                    heart’s blood, demands a deeper grief, a more bitter repentance, than that of
                    our unconverted state. May the Lord help those of you who are convicted of this
                    sin to remember; until the fallow ground of your heart is broken up, and your
                    souls cry, “O, remember not against us former iniquities; let Thy tender mercies
                    speedily prevent us, for we are brought very low. Help us, O God of our
                    salvation, and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for Thy name’s sake.”
                2. The next step is repentance. Now, true repentance implies humiliation,
                    confession, and renunciation. When the backslider has remembered until he
                        realises his unfaithfulness in its true heinousness, he will be
                    so deeply humbled that he will be willing to confess his sin before God and his
                    people. I have known Christians deeply convicted of backsliding, who were yet
                    too proud to confess it. I have known them cover up their sin, and struggle, and
                    pray, and weep, and labour to get back their peace and power, till they were
                    almost driven to distraction; but I never knew one succeed who refused to make
                    an honest confession. While the backslider in heart is too proud to confess that
                    he is one, the laws of mind, as well as the Word of God, forbid that he should
                    be restored to pardon and peace.
                
                “When I kept silence,” says David, describing such a state, “my bones waxed old
                    through my roaring all the day long; (then) I said I will confess my
                    transgressions unto the Lord; and Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.” If we
                    sin against an earthly friend or benefactor, the laws of mind require that,
                    before we can obtain a sense of reconciliation and peace, we must confess the
                    wrong. And all God’s requirements and conditions are beautifully adjusted to the
                    laws of our nature; therefore he requires us to confess our sins,
                    and then “He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins.” Perhaps some one
                    asks, But if I confess to God is not that enough? We answer, it depends on the
                    nature of the offence; if it has been against God only, it may be so; but if it
                    has involved or injured others, it must be confessed to them. “If thou bring thy
                    gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against
                    thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled
                    to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.” “Confess your faults one to
                    another, that ye may be healed.” Now, the backslider in heart has necessarily
                    influenced and injured others by his coldness, deadness, and inconsistency, and
                    in many cases so deeply, that nothing but an honest straightforward confession
                    on his part can win for the truth any influence over them.
                The backsliding Christian falsely represents the religion of Jesus, and
                    indirectly teaches men that it is what he exhibits it to be. Now, on conviction
                    of his unfaithfulness, he is bound in common honesty to redeem his Christianity
                    from the stigma which his inconsistency has brought upon it, and to tell those
                    who have witnessed his life, that its defects have been attributable, not to the
                    religion of Jesus, but to the want of it. I have sometimes thought, on hearing
                    the professions of the Lord’s people, that a little CONFESSION would do a great deal more good. There is a mighty power
                    in confession. A thorough and honest confession of backsliding and inconsistency
                    on the part of Christians would do more to convince and arouse the unconverted within their influence than all their
                    professions have done for years gone by; because it would convince the unsaved
                    that they were REAL AND SINCERE, which at present they do
                    not believe. Many of you will remember reading a beautiful illustration of what
                    I am saying in the Report of the American Revival some seven or eight years ago,
                    respecting a Christian merchant in that country. He does not appear to have been
                    by any means an indifferent professor; on the contrary, he had felt some anxiety
                    about the young men in his employ, and had, as he tells us, lent them books, and
                    invited them to hear earnest ministers, and talked piously to them in a general
                    and indirect sort of way; but all this, as it generally does, had failed to win
                    any of them to Christ, or even to convince them that they were sinners. One day
                    as he was walking through the streets, reflecting on the failure of all his
                    efforts, he was led, doubtless by the Divine Spirit, to see the reason of this
                    failure. He REMEMBERED. “Is it any wonder,” said he to
                    himself, “that I have failed, seeing how inconsistently I have often acted; what
                    a worldly spirit I have exhibited, what an undue absorption in business, and how
                    little real anxiety I have manifested about the souls of my young men? I never
                    took one of them aside and spoke to him directly and feelingly of his
                    accountability and danger. O, how cold and dead and indifferent I have been.”
                    These reflections so filled him with grief and humiliation, that he resolved on
                    taking the first opportunity for confessing his unfaithfulness, and speaking
                    pointedly and faithfully to them about their souls. This he did, and in a few
                    weeks the majority of them were blessedly converted to God.
                This was the effect of confession. That merchant might have gone on talking good
                    to those young men until now, and no effect would have been produced. While his
                    practice was 
                        so
                         o
                     far below his profession, all his direct efforts were neutralised, and
                    thus it is with thousands of professing Christians; they are altogether
                    indifferent about others, they try to do a little for the Lord; but their endeavours are all lost, because of their
                    half?heartedness and inconsistency.
                If there are any here who feel this to be true in their case, my dear friends let
                    me urge you to follow the example of the merchant. Remember your unfaithfulness,
                    till you are sufficiently humbled to be willing to confess it to those whom you
                    have injured by it. This is just what is needful, and ALL
                    that is needful in many an instance where Christians have been praying for years
                    for unconverted relatives and friends. Suppose a Christian wife here this
                    morning: you have an unconverted husband for whom you have been praying for many
                    years; but you are conscious that he has witnessed much in your conduct and
                    spirit which has been at variance with the Christianity which you have
                    professed. Now, this discrepancy between your practice and profession lies like
                    an enemy in ambush, against all extraneous efforts to bring saving truth to bear
                    on the conscience of your husband; and no doubt an honest confession on your
                    part would do more to break his heart and win him to the Saviour than all the
                    sermons he has heard for years gone by. If you are in doubt try it. If you are
                    convicted of backsliding, go home, and with meekness and tears of bitter
                    penitence tell your husband so; tell him that the Spirit has convinced you of
                    your half?heartedness and inconsistency; tell him that you are ashamed of the
                    past, and resolved by God’s grace to lead a new life. Put your arm round his
                    neck, and ask him to join you: then get on your knees and pour out your soul in
                    confession to God, and see whether your husband’s heart will not be moved, and
                    admittance gained for the truth and Spirit of God. And vice versa, let the husband do so with his wife. I tell you that
                    your confession will do more than all your professions have ever done.
                And just so in the case of Christian parents who have lived in a half?hearted
                    state before their children. Oh, how much has been said and written as to the
                    reasons why so few comparatively of the children of Christians get converted in
                    early life. I think the answer could be given,
                    and the mystery explained in one word—unfaithfulness. How can
                    parents expect to win their children to Christ if they constantly exhibit an
                    un?Christ?like spirit, and trample under foot the plainest teachings of his
                    word? How frequently the children of professing parents seem to entertain a
                    greater malignity against the religion of Jesus than do the children of thorough
                    worldlings; and no wonder, seeing that the very name of Christianity has been
                    made to stink in their nostrils by the inconsistency of the parents. They are
                    taught in precept that they are to be sincere, truthful, unselfish, unworldly,
                    but they see in practice the constant exhibition of principles directly
                    contrary; and hence they learn to despise both their parents and the religion
                    which they profess. If there are any inconsistent parents here this morning, my
                    friends, if you desire the conversion of your children, go home and take down
                    the barriers which your unfaithfulness has raised in their hearts against the
                    reception of the Gospel. Go and confess to your children, or, if their youth
                    renders this inexpedient, gather them around the family altar, and confess it
                    all to God in their presence; make a fresh and full dedication of yourselves, of
                    your children, of your all to Him; beseeching Him with strong cries and tears to
                    give you grace to live wholly for Him. Do this with godly sincerity, your own
                    hearts being truly broken up, and no matter how careless or ungracious your
                    children may have been, you will find them melted into tenderness, and in all
                    probability convinced of sin.
                So greatly does God delight in honesty of heart in his people, that He never
                    fails to give the accompanying power of the Spirit to those who exercise it. I
                    have not a doubt that an honest confession of backsliding on the part of all
                    unfaithful ministers would open the windows of heaven, and bring down such a
                    flood of grace on their barren and worldly churches as would shake our land from
                    end to end.
                I remember reading a very striking and affecting illustration of this some years
                    ago, in connection with the experience of a
                    dear man of God, who, during the early years of his Christian career, had been a
                    man of extraordinary devotedness, zeal, and self?sacrifice, but gradually and
                    almost imperceptibly to himself he had fallen from his first love. Though still
                    abounding in good works, and looked up to by all as a pattern of piety, he had
                    lost the power which once characterised him. The Lord showed him from whence he
                    had fallen in a very simple and effective manner, by bringing him into close
                    contact with a man filled with the Spirit, and burning with zeal for the
                    salvation of souls, thus, by the law of contrast, flashing on him the conviction
                    that he had lost his first love. The backslider in heart began to “remember.” He
                    said to himself, “I was once like that man; I felt as he does; I rejoiced as he
                    does; I prayed as he does; I laboured as he does; but I am not like him now. Oh,
                    my God, I am a backslider in heart.” The discovery almost overwhelmed him. He
                    realised its bitterness, and agonised over its consequences, until his distress
                    reached a climax, and kneeling down he prayed in an agony, telling the Lord that
                    if He would restore him to his first love, he would confess his
                    heart?backsliding to his brethren, and do all in his power to counteract the
                    evil effects of his former coldness and unfaithfulness. I need not say that the
                    Lord heard and answered. This was all He wanted of His servant, in order to His
                    pouring in the oil and wine of His love and consolation. Like the disciples on
                    the day of Pentecost he rose from his knees filled with the Spirit. The next day
                    there was an official meeting, in which he had to take part. At the appointed
                    time some dozen of the leading men assembled. After the business was gone
                    through, he asked to be allowed to make a few remarks; and then, with the
                    simplicity of a little child, like an honest?hearted man as he was, he related
                    the experience of the last few days. He confessed to his brethren his
                    heart?backsliding, told them how the Lord had convinced him of it, and how
                    graciously He had restored him to his first love. The brethren present were
                    melted into tears; they sobbed and cried like children; and when he had done, broke out into a general confession of
                    backsliding and unfaithfulness. They continued in the deepest humiliation of
                    soul, confessing and bewailing their sins until midnight. As one after another
                    poured out his soul in confession and supplication, the Holy Ghost fell on them,
                    and there commenced in that room on that memorable night a revival which swept
                    hundreds into the Church of Christ, many of whom are now in heaven. All this was
                    brought about by the power of confession. That man might have preached on until
                    the end of his days, and never have done one tithe of the good which this one
                    open, honest confession did.
                Oh, what a deal of praying there is for revivals, and for spiritual visitations,
                    which is sheer hypocrisy. The Church might have a revival as wide
                    and deep and powerful as she asks, if she would only comply with the conditions
                    on which God can grant it—if she would remember her unfaithfulness, honestly
                    confess and forsake her sins, and bring into God’s storehouse the tithes of
                    which she is so flagrantly robbing Him; but it is easier to utter vain
                    repetitions and leave the responsibility of the damnation of souls upon God,
                    than for Christians to humble themselves, confess before the world their fallen
                    and powerless condition, and pay their vows unto the Lord. The Lord only wants a
                    whole?hearted faithful people, and the walls of many a Jericho would fall, and a
                    nation be born in a day. Oh, may the Lord send upon his backsliding Israel the
                    spirit of conviction and of mourning! May He open her eyes to see from whence
                    she has fallen, and enable her to repent, to come down into the dust, and cry
                    “Unclean, unclean!” until her iniquity is purged, her backslidings healed, and
                    her lips touched with living fire from off his pure and holy altar.
                But further, repentance not only implies humiliation and confession, but RENUNCIATION, sometimes the hardest of all. “Put away the
                    evil of your doings,” is an indispensable condition of restoration to the favour
                    and peace of God. Christ Jesus came to save his people from their sins, not in
                        them and those who will not be saved from
                    their sins prove beyond a question that they are none of his. I have known many
                    professing Christians try hard to get peace while holding on to some sin, or
                    allowing some idol, but I never knew one succeed. You may preach faith for ever
                    to a soul thus temporising with evil, but its consciousness will be too strong
                    for your theories. You must show that soul that it can never believe till it is
                    willing to part with evil. Not that it must save itself, but that it must be
                        WILLING TO BE SAVED FROM SIN.
                This was the principle on which Christ dealt with the young ruler, and which is
                    insisted on again and again by Christ and His apostles. I am satisfied that
                    thousands of professing Christians are kept in bondage and darkness through not
                    understanding this fundamental principle of the economy of salvation. They hear
                    so much about faith, and so little about the conditions of faith, that they get
                    bewildered; and instead of repenting and putting away the evil, that their sins
                    may be blotted out, they spend all their time in trying to work themselves up
                    into a faith as unphilosophical as it is unscriptural. Consequently, they fail
                    to get peace, and live in perpetual condemnation and misery. So it must ever be
                    with those who ignore God’s way, and take their own.
                I remember a striking illustration of this, in connection with some services I
                    held in a distant part of the country. A gentleman called on me, and sent in to
                    ask if I would see him without an introduction, as he did not wish to reveal his
                    name. I said, “Oh, certainly; if I could be of any service to him, I did not
                    wish to know who he was.” Accordingly, he came in, and told me his story. He
                    said that he had been attending my Thursday morning meetings for believers, and
                    he thought perhaps I could help him, as he was in a most difficult and painful
                    position. I found that he had once lived very near to God, and known much of His
                    grace and love; but, in a time of partial backsliding, he had been induced to
                    enter into partnership in business with an unconverted man. His partner,
                        though a respectable, moral man, after the
                    standard of the world, practised and allowed things, in the management of the
                    business, which my visitor’s conscience condemned; “and though,” said he, “I
                    protest against them, and have no share in their preparation, yet I share in the
                    profits of the business, and my name goes forth to the public as responsible for
                    all that is done, and I feel condemned on account of it.” He told me that he had
                    lost his peace, and had tried in every way to regain it. He had fasted and
                    prayed, and wept and struggled, till his body was quite worn. He had been to
                    seek the advice of every minister for miles around, and had sought the counsels
                    and prayers of his Christian friends, in vain. “What am I to do?” said he. “I
                    have considerable capital invested; my friends are very anxious that I should
                    get on; and others are involved in my success.”
                I felt the importance of the case, and truly sympathised with the young man; but
                    to me his path seemed plain as daylight.
                I looked up for a word that should convince him, and then said, “Well, my dear
                    sir, I can only say, that for myself, I should as soon expect the favour of God
                    in hell, as on earth, while I was doing or allowing anything for which my
                    conscience condemned me.” The arrow went home. He said, “I see, I see; I shall
                    have to come out at all costs.” I said, “I believe you will;” and then I tried
                    to show him how much richer he would be with an approving conscience and the
                    smile of God, even in poverty, if the Lord should so will, than with wealth and
                    affluence in his present wretched state of mind. I afterwards learnt who he was,
                    and was most thankful to find that he had followed the light, and given up the
                    ungodly alliance. Now, I say, this young man might have wept himself into the
                    grave, and never have regained his peace, unless he had RENOUNCED HIS SIN. It was utterly useless telling him to exercise
                    faith for deliverance. It was as impossible for him to believe as it was for him
                    to fly, while he was maintaining this controversy with his conscience and with the Spirit. He must FIRST
                    put away the evil, and then it was easy to believe.
                Another case illustrative of what I have been saying occurred in connection with
                    my labours in the North of England. The gentleman in whose house I was staying
                    said to me, one morning, on our return from the chapel, “Do you know what I have
                    done? I have thrown my pipe and tobacco?box on to the dunghill and I have made
                    up my mind to smoke no more.” He then said that he had waged a controversy with
                    his conscience and with the Spirit of God for fifteen years about this paltry
                    gratification, living in a state of perpetual condemnation, and sacrificing the
                    power and usefulness which he had once realised for the sake of this Idol.
                    Immediately on putting away the indulgence, peace was restored to his soul, and
                    he began to labour for the Lord as in days gone by.
                I could give numbers of similar illustrations; but these will suffice to show you
                    that it matters not whether the controverted practice involves the loss of
                    hundreds of pounds, or only of a pipe of tobacco. It is not the greatness or
                    smallness of the matter in itself, but the principle of obedience which is
                    involved in the controversy. While there is a vestige of insubordination to the
                    requirements of conscience and of God, there can be no peace. On this point
                    thousands of professing Christians mistake. They allow themselves in things
                    which they feel to be unlawful, and then strive and pray to obtain a sense of
                    acceptance through Christ. They want the Spirit to witness with their spirits
                    that their ways please God, while they know that their ways are such as CANNOT please Him: therefore, they want the Spirit to
                    witness to a lie, which is impossible.
                No! my backsliding friend, there is but one way back to peace and joy and
                    usefulness, and that is your Lord’s own way—repentance, which always implies
                    forsaking sin, putting away the evil. Christ Jesus is too much in love with his
                    Father’s will to dwell with those who will not obey it; the unalterable condition of his presence and his smile is
                    doing the will of his Father. The “sons of God are led by the Spirit of God;”
                    and if you refuse to be thus 
                        led
                        lead
                    , you cannot have the spirit of adoption. Do you see this? Do you feel
                    it? If so, will you put away those sins and iniquities which have separated you
                    from your God? Will 
                        you
                        your
                     let your idols go, and now for ever renounce all that is contrary to
                    his holy will? If you will, you will find it easy to take the next step in your
                    Lord’s way of restoration; nay, you will come with gladness to do “your first
                    works.”
                3. I think the Lord has enabled me to show you that restoration to first love is
                    impossible without the renunciation of evil; so I think, by the aid of the
                    Blessed Spirit, I shall be able to show that it is equally impossible without
                    consecration to known duty. I have known backsliders in heart who
                        have “remembered” till their hearts have been well?nigh broken,
                    and who, I believe, have honestly put away the occasions of their backsliding,
                    who have nevertheless shrunk from embracing the cross in the form of some
                    suffering or duty to which the Spirit has called them, and thus have found it
                    impossible to exercise the faith necessary to their healing.
                I once knew a widow lady, who, though she tried every method, and that for a long
                    time, to regain her peace, could not, because she refused to conduct family
                    prayer, to which duty the Spirit of God urged her. I have known others who have
                    felt that they ought to confess their backsliding state, and they have tried
                    anything and everything else in vain, but immediately on confessing have
                    obtained a sense of acceptance. I have known some who have felt it a duty to be
                    baptized, but refused because of the cross, but they got no peace till they
                    yielded. I know a lady who maintained a controversy with the Spirit for four
                    years, about giving up her husband to a work to which she believed God had
                    called him, but which involved much sacrifice and trial. Many a time she said,
                    with anguish of spirit, “Anything but this, Lord!” but this was the very thing which the Lord required; and not until,
                    like Abraham, she gave up the best beloved of her soul to the will of God, did
                    she recover her peace and joy. I am acquainted with a minister, who, after
                    trying for a long time to lead a deeply convicted sinner into faith, paused, and
                    said, “Excuse me, madam, but I think there is something that you are not willing
                    to give up, or to do.” After a few minutes’ silence, she burst out weeping
                    afresh, and, after a terrible struggle, said, “Oh, I cannot forgive the murderer
                    of my husband.” Surely if any compromise in the conditions of salvation were
                    possible in any case, it was in this. But no; the Spirit of God had already
                    shown that lady what hindered her reception of Christ, and instead of urging her
                    to believe, that minister, as a wise co?worker with the Spirit, told her that
                    difficult as the duty might appear, she must embrace it and forgive the man who
                    had so deeply injured her. She made the effort; that is, her will
                        submitted; and immediately the Spirit helped her infirmities, and
                    enabled her fully and freely to forgive. Almost at the same moment she was
                    enabled to believe unto salvation.
                I might give you numbers of similar cases which have come under my own
                    observation, but I trust these will be sufficient to show what I mean by
                    consecration as a condition of faith. I think I may say, without exaggeration,
                    that I have conversed with hundreds of backsliders of different degrees, and I
                    never knew one restored to first love who refused compliance with known duty.
                    “To him who knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin;” and in
                    wilful sin there is no salvation. Do you see this, my dear friends, you who are
                    mourning an absent God? Are you willing to consecrate yourselves this day unto
                    the Lord? Do you honestly renounce those things through which you have lost your
                    peace, and brought leanness into your souls? Do you embrace the will, the
                        whole will of God, as your rule of life? Will you bring into
                    His store?house the tithes of a whole?hearted service, and a cheerful obedience?
                    In short, will you give Him that which He claims,—yourself and your all? If so, His word to you is, “I will heal
                    your backslidings, I will love you freely; for mine anger is turned away from
                    you;” “I will betroth thee unto Me for ever; yea, I will betroth thee unto Me in
                    righteousness, and in judgment, and in loving?kindness, and in mercies; I will
                    even betroth thee unto Me in faithfulness, and thou shall know the Lord.”
                Satan tempts you to shrink from a full consecration for fear you should not be
                    able to live up to it; but if you will comply with the conditions, God will
                    fulfil this promise. If you will only yield yourself up without reserve, He will
                    work in you to will and to do of his good pleasure. Hear your Lord’s word: “If a
                    man love Me, he will keep My words; and My Father will love him, and we will
                    come unto him, and make our abode with him.” Surely, with the father and Son,
                    you will be able to do and suffer all things. The reason for your past failures
                    has been the WANT of God. When God comes to dwell in you,
                    when he betroths you to Him in faithfulness for ever, you will fail no more; His
                    strength will be made perfect in your weakness; you will be able to do all
                    things through Christ, who strengtheneth you.
                I doubt not some of you are saying, “How shall I realise the fulfilment of these
                    blessed promises?” I answer, by simple faith. Just as you trusted at first for
                    justification, and rested not on your feelings, but on HIS
                        PROMISES, so now you must cast yourself on His blessed assurances of
                    healing and of strength. Having the testimony of your own spirit that you comply
                    with the conditions, in putting away the evil and embracing the will of God, you
                    have nothing to do but to throw yourself on His bosom, and rest in His love. The
                    mercy?seat is sprinkled with the blood of an all?sufficient atonement, so that
                    He can receive and pardon even backsliders, if they will only believe. He says,
                    “Return unto me, and I will heal your backslidings.” Now you DO return, will you not believe that He heals you? He says He will;
                    dare you make Him a liar? You have no
                    alternative. If you come, He either does, or does not receive you. He says He
                    does. O believe Him, and He will betroth you unto Him in faithfulness for
                    ever.
            
            
            
                
                        DEALING WITH
                        DEALINGW ITH
                     ANXIOUS SOULS.
                AN ADDRESS TO CHRISTIAN WORKERS.
                I HAVE long desired to say a few words on the subject of dealing with
                    the anxious. It seems to me that if there is one work in the vineyard more
                    important than another it is that of guiding souls in this the most momentous
                    crisis of their being. A mistake here will probably prove a fatal mistake,
                    blighting all the joy and strength of future life.
                I fear thousands have been mistaken here. Mere impression has been mistaken for
                    conviction, and an intellectual faith for saving faith of the heart; hence so
                    much of the spurious Christianity prevalent amongst us.
                We should be very careful, in all our dealings with anxious souls, first to find
                    out their exact position with regard to sin. In all spiritual awakenings there
                    are always numbers of individuals who are partially awakened and sufficiently
                    impressed to become anxious, like the young ruler and Agrippa, but who, like
                    them, are not sufficiently so to be willing to give up their sins. Such
                    individuals frequently present themselves as penitents desiring to be saved, and
                    too often those who have to deal with them,
                    instead of finding out their true state, and working together with the Holy
                    Ghost to deepen conviction and drive them up to real submission to God, begin at
                    once to talk of Christ having paid their debt and done everything for them, so
                    that they have nothing to do but to believe and they are saved. Now it seems to
                    me that to prevent such grievous mistake, with all its bitter consequences,
                    every one who deals with souls should have a clear and definite understanding of
                    the conditions on which alone God pardons and receives repenting sinners. These
                    conditions always have been, and ever must remain, the same, seeing that the
                    principles of the Divine government can never change.
                Hence we find that, alike under the old and new dispensations, GOD’S UNALTERABLE
                    CONDITION OF PARDON IS THE FORSAKING OF EVIL.
                “Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let
                    him return unto the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him; and to our God, and
                    He will abundantly pardon.” “Turn ye, turn ye, from your evil ways, for why will
                    ye die, O house of Israel.” Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked may die?
                    saith the Lord God, and not that he should return from his ways and live? Of
                    course the wicked were then to return in the appointed way of sacrifice and
                    offering, but the condition of the acceptance of the offering, and
                    the pardon of the transgressor, was the forsaking of evil. Just so now; the
                    sinner must return to God by the new and living way, the “sacrifice once
                    offered,” but the condition of his acceptance through this sacrifice is the
                    forsaking of evil. Unless he is willing to let go his sins and be separated from
                    his idols, the sacrifice of Christ will avail him nothing but to increase his
                    condemnation tenfold. It seems astounding that, with the Bible in their hands,
                    so many professing to be guides of souls should mistake here; and, oh! it makes
                    one’s heart bleed to think of the consequences. We have thousands self?deceived,
                    counting themselves believers, who never knew the pangs of real repentance; whose hearts never really turned from sin to
                    righteousness, from Satan to God; who suppose they have been converted, but who
                    have manifestly never been regenerated: who live as the slaves and votaries of
                    the world while they profess to be children of God; in short, who regard
                    themselves as Christians while they are still in the gall of bitterness and in
                    the bonds of iniquity. Let us mind not to be partakers of other
                    men’s sins in this matter. Let us settle in our minds that there can be no
                    conversion without conviction of sin, and such conviction as makes the
                        soul willing to abandon evil. Casting ourselves on the Spirit for the
                    necessary tenderness in doing it, let us not be afraid to prove the wounds with
                    which every unregenerate soul is covered, and above all things let us avoid
                    giving false comfort and pressing the inquirer into a mere intellectual faith,
                    while he is cleaving to idols. Let us ever remember that saving
                    faith is impossible while the soul’s desires are set on that which
                    is evil. It must be so awakened and convicted as to turn its face towards God,
                    and so intensely desire His favour and love as to be willing to give up all evil
                    as a condition of attaining it.
                I repeat, it is astounding that, with the Bible in their hands, some teachers can
                    so confound things that differ, and so, wrongly, “divide the word
                    of truth as to make Christ the minister of sin,” by preaching only “believe” to
                    people who are holding on to sin. You will hear some of these good people
                    asserting that we have nothing to do with conditions now, that repentance is not
                    necessary to faith, &c. “Only believe and you shall be saved.” “Jesus
                    did it all, long, long ago.” Truly! But what was it Jesus did? His own work, not
                    mine? He lived, laboured, wept, suffered, and died and atoned for me, and He did
                    it all—till he cried, “It is finished;” but I nowhere read that He
                    “repented” and “turned to God,” and did “works meet for repentance,” and
                    “believed” and “obeyed the Gospel” for me. This He commands every
                    soul to do for itself, or perish. The only way in which Jesus is represented as
                    saving men is in “turning them away from their
                    iniquities,” and until a soul is willing to let Him save it from sin, He cannot
                    save it at all. Let us always try to find out whether inquirers are
                        willing or desire to be saved from evil, and are coming to
                    Christ for this end, or whether they are only desirous of being saved from hell,
                    and consequently holding on to sin. Here is just the difference between the true
                    and a spurious repentance, and on this hinges the result whether we shall bring
                    into the Church another mere professor, a Simon Magus, or one who will follow
                    Christ in the regeneration of the spirit, having his heart purified by a living
                    faith. “Oh,” but say some, “what did Paul say to the jailer? He did not say
                    anything about conditions or repentance, but simply, ‘Believe,’ &c.” I
                    answer we do not know all that Paul said on this occasion, for in the next verse
                    we read that “they (Paul and Silas) spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to
                    all his house.” Mark! this was before his profession of faith and baptism.
                Now, who can tell how much this word of the Lord implied? Doubtless the Apostle
                    explained on this, as on other occasions, what constituted that “obedience to
                    the truth” through which the jailer, in common with all other penitents, was to
                    be purified. But, supposing that the Apostle had spoken no other words than
                    “Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ,” this would only prove that in this
                    particular instance no other counsel was necessary, because the jailer was
                    prepared for it. He had come to the point of full submission where
                    saving faith first becomes possible. The whole tenour of the narrative shows
                    that the jailer was a fully awakened, truly repenting, deeply humbled sinner,
                    ready to do anything. “He sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before
                    Paul and Silas, and brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be
                    saved?” Observe, “He brought them out.” He began immediately to bring forth
                    fruits meet for repentance. The earthquake had torn the bandages from his eyes,
                    and the Spirit, through its instrumentality, had shaken his guilty soul and made
                        him realise his danger in the hands of a
                    God who could avenge the wrongs of His people after such a fashion.
                He was so deeply convicted, so fully turned round “from darkness to light,” that
                    he was ready to do anything. He was not ashamed to confess his
                    wickedness—to kneel before his prisoners and plead with them to show him what to
                    do. And if Paul had told him, as Jesus did the young ruler, to sell his goods
                    and give to the poor, there cannot be a doubt but he would have embraced the
                    command at once, as Zacchæus did the obligation to make restitution. The intense
                    earnestness of his gesture and question shows that he was willing to be saved at
                    any cost—ready to do anything—and, therefore, nothing more remained
                    to be done but to believe.
                Now, wherever we find a soul in this attitude, be it our highest privilege—our
                    chief joy—to point him to the Lamb of God, and to show him the way of faith more
                    perfectly; but, oh! let us mind not to do it (except as a motive to submission)
                    until this attitude is attained. Let us beware of a theoretical or
                    sentimental faith, which leaves the heart unwashed, unrenewed, unsanctified. It
                    is just here that thousands get the faith of devils, which is like the body
                    without the spirit—dead! From this bitter root springs nearly all the
                    Antinomianism of this age. With the untempered slime of the old serpent half the
                    superstructure of the professing Church is joined together. Let us spurn it, and
                    warn souls against it.
                Let us mind the ORDER OF GOD in our dealing with souls. He made them, and He
                    knows best how to dissect them. It seems astonishing that any difference of view
                    can have obtained on the point with passages so direct, full, and relevant as
                    Acts xxvi. 18, 20. Surely our glorified Lord understood the constitution of the
                    human soul, and knew best as to the method or order in which His truth and
                    spirit operate upon it.
                There are two or three considerations which give this passage special weight. It
                    comes from the lips of our risen Lord. It was given after the Gospel
                    dispensation was opened in all its fulness. It
                    was given to Paul, the principal expounder of the doctrine of justification by
                    faith, and therefore his views of faith could not have been contradictory to its
                    teaching.
                It was applied alike to Jews and Gentiles. “To open their eyes”—to awaken and
                    make them realise their danger as sinners, “and to turn them from darkness, or
                    evil, to light or righteousness”—that is, from the choice or embrace of evil to
                    the choice or embrace of righteousness, and “From the power of Satan unto
                    God”—that is, from being committed to the power of Satan to committal to the
                    power of God. “That they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among
                    them which are sanctified by faith that is in me.” Observe here what a deal has
                    to be done in the soul before it can receive forgiveness of sins.
                    Its eyes must be opened—to what? Its own sinfulness and danger and misery. Then,
                    under the sight of this, it must be turned right round from the embrace or
                    desire of evil, to the embrace or desire of righteousness (though yet powerless
                    to DO, it must choose and desire righteousness). The attitude of the WILL MUST
                    CHANGE with respect to evil and good. It must turn round from the one to the
                    other in purpose and desire. Then “it must be turned from committal to the power
                    of Satan unto God.” It must abjure Satan as its rightful sovereign, and at least
                    WILL to put itself under the power of God. And all this in order
                    that it may receive forgiveness of sin. This is made an absolute condition of
                    its receiving forgiveness. Now, I maintain that this is the only possible
                    interpretation of this important text, not only of our version but of the
                    original in all its purity; and if so, what becomes of the theory that there are
                    no conditions, and that repentance and forsaking of evil and choosing good is
                    not necessary to saving faith? Further, we see in the 18th verse how literally
                    Paul understood, and how implicitly he followed, this Divine order, for he says
                    he “showed unto them of Damascus, and all Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judæa, and then to the
                    Gentiles that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet
                    for repentance.”
                Now, certainly Paul knew what he preached, and there could not be any
                    contradiction in his mind between these necessary conditions of faith, and faith
                    itself. Therefore, when he speaks of faith only being necessary to a sinner’s
                    justification, he must always assume that these conditions are complied with,
                    otherwise he contradicts himself and sets aside the order of this Divine
                    commission.
                I know that Paul teaches that faith alone is the hand that takes hold of Christ,
                    but of course he assumes that the feet of repentance and submission have brought
                    the soul near enough for this hand to reach Him; in other words, that, by the
                    Spirit’s power, he is so convinced of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment, as
                    to be willing to forsake every evil way, 
                        and
                        aad
                     to flee for refuge to the hope set before him. It seems difficult to
                    imagine how any idea of pardon and reconciliation can have obtained in the
                    Church which does not pre?suppose these conditions, seeing that Jesus laid it
                    down again and again as a fundamental principle that no man could
                    become His disciple, or follow Him, till he was willing to renounce every
                        thing, and every being, antagonistic to His
                    supreme love and dominion in the soul (Luke xiv. 26,30; Mal. x. 37; Matt. v.
                    29,30). We find also that the Apostles invariably acted on the assumption that
                    until the soul turned round from evil to God it could not believe (Acts xxiv.
                    25). I would ask, Why did not Paul press Felix to believe on the Lord Jesus? He
                    trembled, as did the jailer. The reason is evident—he did not submit to God and
                    forsake sin (Acts viii. 22, 23; Acts xx. 21; Luke xxiv. 47; Acts v. 31; Romans
                    i. 18; Romans ii. 3?10.) The principle laid down in these texts is recognised by
                    Jesus in His messages to the seven churches: there is no promise of pardon, even
                    to backsliders, without such repentance as leads to the putting away of evil.
                    This, then, is the test of genuine repentance,
                    WILLINGNESS TO PUT AWAY SIN. Until this is attained, let us not dare to attempt
                    to comfort any soul, for in so doing we shall not be workers together with God,
                    but the tools of Satan, doing exactly what he desires to be done. My dear
                    friends, ponder on these suggestions: they will bear examination. Carefully
                    compare scripture with scripture on this point, seeking the light of the Holy
                    Spirit, and you will be saved from healing the health of the Lord’s people
                    slightly—from increasing the number of those who have a form of godliness
                    without the power.
                The next important step in dealing with anxious souls is to present them THE
                    PROPER OBJECT OF FAITH, which is CHRIST JESUS HIMSELF,
                    and not merely Divine testimony concerning Him.
                There is a vast difference between these two objects of faith. The one ends with
                    the intellect, the other purifies the heart. That method of leading souls into
                    faith which presents the truth as a system, or declaration, on the reception or
                    belief of which the soul is to reckon itself saved, fails to bring the soul into
                    contact with a living, personal Christ, and possesses no living principle by
                    which to graft it into the vine as a living branch.
                Truly the Divine testimony concerning Christ must be received and
                    believed; but this is not to be the ultimate object of
                    faith, but only the medium through which the soul’s trust is to be transferred
                    to the living person testified of. Here arises another fatal error
                    of this day, through which, I fear, numbers never realise any other God than the
                    Bible, or any other Saviour than a powerless, intellectual belief in the
                        letter of it. They believe the truth about Christ,
                        about His life an death, His sacrifice and intercession; they
                    believe, as inquirers often tell me they do, that Jesus died for them, and that
                    He intercedes for them; but they do not believe that His sacrifice actually
                    satisfies the Father for their sins, or that His intercession so far prevails
                    with God for them that He does now actually pardon and receive them
                    because of it. If they believed this, of course
                    their anxiety would immediately cease, and they would begin to sing the new song
                    of praise and thanksgiving.
                The mind is too often occupied with the theory of Divine truth instead of the
                    living person whom the truth sets forth. Now, it seems clear to me that the
                    Divine testimony concerning Christ may be believed, and frequently
                        is believed, without there existing a particle of saving trust
                    in Him as a personal Saviour. Here is the secret of so many
                    apparently believing and devout people living in systematic disobedience to God.
                    Their minds are convinced of the truth, and their emotions are frequently
                    stirred by it; but they have no life, no spiritual power in them by
                    which to resist temptation or live above the world, because their faith does not
                    embrace a living Saviour able to save them to the uttermost, but only the truth
                        about Him.
                Take an illustration. Suppose you are sick almost unto death. A friend brings you
                    a testimony concerning some wonderful physician who has cured many such cases,
                    and is fully able and willing to undertake yours. Now, you may receive the
                    record of your friend concerning the skill and success of this physician’s
                    treatment, and you may fully believe it, and yet there may be some
                    reason why you shrink from putting yourself into his hands and trusting him with
                    your life. You may believe all that is said about him, and yet fail
                    so to trust in his person as to give yourself up fully into his
                    power. Just so there are numbers who believe God’s testimony concerning His Son,
                    that Jesus has atoned for their sin, and that His treatment would cure them of
                    its disease, who do not trust Him to do it for them—no, not for a single moment.
                    Here is the difference between a dead and a living faith; between a faith that
                    lies useless on the shelves of the intellect, or bubbles up on the waves of mere
                    emotion, and that which renews the soul in righteousness, and makes it the abode
                    of an indwelling Christ.
                The term faith is used in several different senses in the Scripture, but when used to designate that act
                    through which the soul is justified before God, and renewed by His Spirit, it
                    always signifies trust in, or committal to, a living Saviour. The word used to
                    signify this trust is sometimes rendered “commit,” as in John ii. 24: “But Jesus
                    did not commit Himself unto them, because He knew all men.” He did not believe
                    in them, or trust them with His person—He did not commit Himself
                    into their power. This is just what God requires the sinner to do in order to be
                    saved—to commit himself to the faithfulness and power of Jesus.
                    Again, we have the same word in Luke xv. 11: “If, therefore, ye have not been
                    unfaithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will ‘commit’ to your trust the true
                    riches”—who shall give over into your keeping, or power, the true riches.
                Now, it is evident that the Scriptural idea of saving faith is that of the
                    absolute committal of the whole being over to the faithfulness and power of
                    Jesus, and not merely a belief, however firm, of the records of certain facts
                    concerning Him. I may believe that He is the Saviour—that He died for me—that He
                    intercedes for me—that He has promised to save me, as thousands do; and yet I
                    may have no trust in Him as now doing all this for me, and consequently draw no
                    sap, no spiritual virtue, from Him.
                Saving faith consists in a firm trust in the person of Jesus, and committal of
                    the soul to Him by an unwavering act of confidence in Him for all that the Bible
                    presents Him to be, as the Redeemer and Saviour of men—“For I know
                        whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep
                    that which I have committed unto Him against that day”
                    (2 Tim. i. 12). And as soon as this trust is exercised, the testimony of the
                    Spirit is given to adoption, and the soul knows that it is passed
                    from death unto life. Of course this trust is exercised through the
                    testimony of God to His Son, but the SON
                    is the object of trust, and not the testimony merely. This is most
                    important to bear in mind in our efforts to lead souls into saving faith.
                
                And now it becomes a question of deepest interest—how best to lead
                    true penitent sinners to exercise this trust. The first thing generally to be
                    done is to present Jesus as willing to meet the realised
                    desperateness of the sinner’s case, as every true penitent thinks himself the
                    chief of sinners, and his own a peculiarly bad case. We should try to show him
                    that the question of salvation does not hinge on the greatness or smallness of a
                    sinner’s guilt, but on the fact of his accepting Jesus as a sufficient atonement
                    for it. We should try to show him how almost all the instances of conversion
                    recorded in the Bible were great sinners, and how Jesus came to seek that which
                    was absolutely lost, and how the depths of His love can only be shown on very
                    bad cases.
                When we have succeeded in leading the soul to apprehend the sufficiency of the
                    atonement to cover, and the willingness of Jesus to pardon, the past, unbelief
                    will generally fasten on the future, and the inquirer will say, “Ah! but if I
                    were forgiven, I should fall again into sin.” Now is the time to bring the soul
                    face to face with a personal, living Saviour. We must present Christ’s ABILITY to save to the uttermost—of the soul’s need and
                        circumstances—all them who come unto God by Him. We must get
                    the soul’s eye fixed on Jesus, not only as a sacrifice but as a
                        SAVIOUR, a Deliverer, an Almighty Friend, who has
                    promised to dwell and abide with the believer, delivering him out of the hands
                    of all his enemies. We should not give up till, by the help of the Spirit, we
                    can lead the soul to expect in Jesus the supply of all its needs.
                    When this is accomplished, we should lead the soul on to claim this Saviour
                        NOW.
                When arrived at this point, I have sometimes found it very helpful to ask, Well,
                    now, when did Jesus pardon and receive the penitents who came to
                    Him in the days of His flesh?—waiting for an answer, thus compelling the mind’s
                    attention to the point. The inquirer will generally say, “I suppose when they
                    came to Him.” I reply, Of course that was the only time to receive them—when they came, not an hour before or
                    an hour after, but at the moment they came, and it is the same now. He receives
                    returning sinners when they come. Now, you come,
                    confessing and forsaking all your sins, and willing to follow Him wherever He
                    may lead you. Does he receive you? He said He would in no wise cast
                    you out if you came. Does He cast you out? The penitent will generally say, “No,
                    I trust not.” Then what does He? He must either take you in or cast you out
                        just now, because you come just now. Which is it?
                    Sometimes we get the answer, “I hope He takes me in.” Then we try
                    to show that this is not the place for hope. Only to HOPE
                    that Jesus means what He says is to insult Him and drive Him away. You must
                    trust Him and believe now that He takes you in. Oh, what struggles
                    I have often witnessed just at this point! Satan understands the power of this
                        committal, and withstands it with all his subtlety and malice;
                    but if we are firm, and armed with the power of the Spirit, and persistently and
                    relentlessly press the soul up to present trust, the result is
                    certain. Condemnation is taken away, light breaks on the soul, and the new song
                    bursts spontaneously from the lips, even praise and thanksgiving to our God.
                In some cases it requires no little sympathy, tact, and firmness to meet the
                    wiles of unbelief and the stratagems of Satan even in dealing with very sincere
                    and truly submissive souls. Fear of being deceived is generally one of the
                    greatest difficulties. In such cases it is well to explain to the penitent that
                    there is no ground for this fear, seeing that this way of salvation is of God’s
                    own appointing, and that, although it seems an easy way to be saved, after
                    living so long in sin and rebellion—the ease of it is all on the sinner’s side,
                    and not on the side of the Saviour—we should explain at what a terrible cost of
                    sacrifice and suffering to the Son of God this simple, easy way was opened, and
                    how ungrateful it is to put it away, as if it were too good to be true, because
                    God has made it so simple.
                It is well to encourage the inquirer to trust by reminding him that every truly saved soul on earth, and every
                    redeemed spirit in heaven, was saved in this way—by simple faith alone. It is
                    often very helpful to get the penitent to use the language of faith with his
                    lips, even before his heart can fully go with it. I have seen many a one rise
                    into faith while repeating after me the text, rendered in the first person, “He
                    was wounded for my transgressions,” &c; or, “Thou hast said, Him that
                    cometh to Thee Thou wilt in no wise cast out. Lord, I come; Thou dost
                        not cast me out; Thou takest me in;” or, “’Tis done—the
                    great transaction done; I am my Lord’s, and He is mine;” or, “I can believe—I do
                    believe—that Jesus saves me now,” repeating such passages or
                    stanzas over and over again till the heart follows the tongue and the venture is
                    made.
                Of course we cannot give counsels for every individual case; there are great
                    diversities in the temperaments and circumstances of different individuals
                    requiring a wise adaptation of treatment at the moment for which the spirit
                    alone can endow us. Let us, however, only be clear and faithful on the two
                    momentous points of a TRUE AND THOROUGH REPENTANCE, and
                    an intelligent and implicit TRUST IN A LIVING SAVIOUR,
                    and every minor question will easily be met, and the souls whom the Lord shall
                    honour us to bring into His family will not be stillborn ghosts of a sinewless
                    sentimentalism; but strong, hardy, cross?bearing, Christ?honouring, soul?winning
                    men and women, able to open heaven and shake hell by their faith and zeal and
                    effort in our Redeemer’s kingdom.
            
            
            
                “COMPEL THEM TO COME IN.”
                ON a certain Sabbath, some years ago, I was passing down a narrow,
                    thickly?populated street on my way to hear a much?honoured minister of Christ,
                    anticipating an evening’s enjoyment for myself, and hoping to see some anxious
                    ones brought into the kingdom, when I chanced to look up at the thick rows of
                    small windows above me, where numbers of women were sitting, peering through at
                    the passers?by, or listlessly gossiping with each other. It was suggested to my
                    mind with great power, “Would you not be doing God more service, and acting more
                    like your Redeemer, by turning into some of these houses, speaking to these
                    careless sinners, and inviting them to the service, than by going
                    to enjoy it yourself?” I was startled; it was a new thought; and while I was
                    reasoning about it, the same inaudible interrogator demanded, “What effort do
                    Christians put forth, answerable to the command, ‘Compel them to come in, that
                    my house may be filled’?” This was accompanied with a light and unction which I
                    knew to be divine. I felt greatly agitated. I felt verily guilty. I knew that
                        I had never thus laboured to bring lost sinners to Christ, and trembling with a sense of my utter
                    weakness, I stood still for a moment, looked up to heaven, and said, “Lord, if
                    Thou wilt help me, I will try;” and without stopping longer to confer with flesh
                    and blood, turned back and commenced my work.
                I spoke first to a group of women sitting on a doorstep; and oh! what that effort
                    cost me, words cannot describe; but the Spirit helped my infirmities, and
                    secured for me a patient and respectful hearing with a promise from some of them
                    to attend the house of God. This much encouraged me: I began to taste the joy
                    which lies hidden under the cross; and to realise, in some faint degree, that it
                    is more blessed to give than to receive. With this timely, loving cordial from
                    my blessed Master, I went on to the next group standing at the entrance of a
                    low, dirty court. Here, again, I was received kindly, and promises were given—no
                    rude repulse, no bitter ridicule were allowed to shake my new?found confidence,
                    or chill my feeble zeal. I began to realise that my Master’s feet were behind
                    me; nay, before me, smoothing my path and preparing my way.
                This blessed assurance so increased my courage and enkindled my hope, that I
                    ventured to knock at the door of the next house, and when it was opened, to go
                    in and speak to the inmates of Jesus, death, judgment, and eternity. The man,
                    who appeared to be one of the better class of mechanics, seemed to be much
                    interested and affected by my words, and promised with his wife to attend the
                    revival services which were being held at the chapel farther on. With a heart
                    full of gratitude and eyes full of tears, I was thinking where I should go next,
                    when I observed a woman standing on an adjoining door?step, with a jug in her
                    hand. My Divine Teacher said, “Speak to that woman.” Satan suggested, “Perhaps
                    she is intoxicated;” but after a momentary struggle, I introduced myself to her
                    by saying, “Are the people out who live on this floor?” observing that the lower
                    part of the house was closed. “Yes,” she said, “they are gone to chapel;” and I
                    thought I perceived a weary sadness in her
                    voice and manner. I said, “Oh, I am so glad to hear that: how is it
                    that you are not gone to a place of worship?” “Me!” she said,
                    looking down upon her forlorn appearance; “I can’t go to chapel; I am kept at
                    home by a drunken husband. I have to stop with him to keep him from the
                    public?house, and I have just been fetching him some drink” I expressed my
                    sorrow for her, and asked if I might come in and see her husband. “No,” she
                    said, “he is drunk; you could do nothing with him now.” I replied, “I do not
                    mind his being drunk, if you will let me come in; I am not afraid; he will not
                    hurt me.” “Well,” said the woman, “you can come if you like; but he will only
                    abuse you.” I said, “Never mind that,” and followed her up the stairs.
                I felt strong now in the Lord, and in the power of His might, and as safe as a
                    babe in the arms of its mother. I felt that I was in the path of
                        obedience, and I feared no evil. Oh, how much the Lord’s people
                    lose through disobedience to the leadings of the Holy Spirit! If they would only
                    keep His words, He would dwell with them, and then they need fear neither men
                    nor devils. The woman led me to a small room on the first floor, where I found a
                    fine, intelligent man, about forty, sitting almost double in a chair, with a jug
                    by his side, out of which he had been drinking that which had reduced him
                    beneath the level of the beasts that perish. I leaned on my heavenly Guide for
                    strength and wisdom, love and power, and He gave me all I needed. He silenced
                    the demon, Strong Drink, and quickened the man’s perceptions to receive my
                    words. As I began to talk to him, with my heart full of sympathy, he gradually
                    raised himself in his chair and listened with a surprised and half?vacant stare.
                    I spoke to him of his present deplorable condition, of the folly and wickedness
                    of his course, of the interests of his wife and children, until he was
                    thoroughly waked up and aroused from the stupor in which I found him.
                During this conversation his wife wept bitterly, and by frag? ments told me a little of their previous history. I
                    found that she had once known the Lord, but had allowed herself to be dragged
                    down by trouble, had cast away her confidence, and fallen into sin. She told me
                    that her husband had a brother in the Wesleyan ministry, who had done all that a
                    brother could do to save him; that they had buried a daughter two years before,
                    who died triumphantly in the Lord, and besought her father with her dying breath
                    to leave off drinking, and prepare to meet her in heaven; that she had a son,
                    then about eighteen, who, she feared, was going into a consumption; that her
                    husband was a clever workman, and could earn three or four pounds per week as a
                    journeyman, but he drank it nearly all, so that they were compelled to live in
                    two rooms, and often went without necessary food. I read to him the parable of
                    the prodigal son, while the tears ran down his face like rain. I then prayed
                    with him as the Spirit gave me utterance, and left, promising to call the next
                    day with a temperance?pledge book, which he promised to sign.
                I now felt that my work was done for that time. Exhausted in body, but happy in
                    soul, I wended my way to the sanctuary, just in time for the conclusion of the
                    service, and to lend a helping hand in the prayer?meeting.
                On the following day I visited this man again. He signed the pledge, and listened
                    attentively to all I said. Full of hope I left him, to find others similarly
                    lost and fallen. From that time I commenced a systematic course of
                    house?to?house visitation, devoting two evenings per week to the work. The Lord
                    so blessed my efforts that in a few weeks I succeeded in getting ten drunkards
                    to abandon their soul?destroying habits, and to meet me once a week for reading
                    and expounding the Scriptures, and prayer. We held three or four blessed little
                    meetings, and I doubt not our numbers would have increased more and more, but,
                    in the inscrutable workings of Divine Providence, my health gave way, and I was
                    most reluctantly compelled to abandon my happy and promising sphere of
                        labour. I was shortly after removed from
                    the town, and my way opened to a new and still more fruitful work in the
                    vineyard.
                You will not be surprised, dear reader, after this little sketch, to hear me say
                    that I esteem this work of house?to?house visitation next in
                        importance to the preaching of the Gospel itself. Who can tell the
                    amount of influence and power which might be brought to bear on the careless,
                    godless inhabitants of our large towns and cities—nay, on our whole nation—if
                    all real Christians would only do a little of this kind of work! The masses of
                    people look upon Christians as a separate and secluded class, with whom they
                    have no concern and possess nothing in common. They watch them go past their
                    houses to their various places of worship with utter indifference or bitter
                    contempt; and, alas! has there not been too much in our past conduct calculated
                    to beget this kind of feeling, much of Pharisaic pride and selfish unconcern? If
                    the zeal of the Lord’s house had eaten us up,—if we had realized more fellowship
                    with Christ in his sufferings,—if we had understood the meaning of his words,
                    “Compel them to come in,” if we had been baptized with Paul’s spirit, when he
                    could almost have wished himself accursed from Christ for his brethren’s sakes,
                    should we not have gone out amongst the people as our Master did,
                    by the road?side and into their houses, to have spoken to them the “words of
                    this life,”—to have persuaded, implored, and compelled them to come in? Alas, we
                    are verily guilty; nor has it been in many instances for want of light, or for
                    want of the leadings of the Holy Spirit; but it has been for want of OBEDIENCE, and because of our pride, or shame, or fear.
                O that, with all who read this, the time past might suffice to have walked after
                    the flesh in this matter! O that from this hour you, my dear reader (if you are
                    a child of God), would set yourself individually to this work; YOU CAN DO IT. However weak, timid, or “slow of speech,” He says, “I
                    will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say;” and “It shall be
                    given you in that same hour what ye shall speak.” All that is needful is for you to give yourself up to the leadings of the
                    Spirit. Lean on Him for all you want. He will inspire you with the constraining
                    love, the melting sympathy, the holy zeal, and the mighty faith alone necessary
                    for the task.
                This is the work that most needs doing of any work in the vineyard. There are
                    teeming thousands who never cross the threshold of church, chapel, or
                    mission?hall, to whom all connected with religion is as an old song, a byword,
                    and a reproach. They need to be brought into contact with a living Christ in the
                    characters and persons of His people. They want to see and
                        handle the Word of Life in a living form. Christianity must
                    come to them embodied in men and women, who are not ashamed to “eat with
                    publicans and sinners”; they must see it looking through their eyes, and
                    speaking in loving accents through their tongues, sympathising with their
                    sorrows, bearing their burdens, reproving their sins, instructing their
                    ignorance, inspiring their hope, and wooing them to the fountain opened for sin
                    and uncleanness. Dear reader, here is a sphere for you! You have long wished to
                    do something for your “blessed, blessed Master.” Here is work, boundless in
                    extent, and momentous beyond an angel’s power to conceive. For it, you need no
                    human ordination, no long and tedious preparation, no high?flown language, no
                    towering eloquence; all you want is the full baptism of the Spirit on your
                    heart, the Bible in your hand, and humility and simplicity in your manner. Thus
                    equipped, you will be mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. You
                    will find your way to many a heart long since abandoned by hope and given up to
                    despair; and in the great day of account you shall have many a sheaf as the
                    result of your labour, and the reward of your self?denial.
                I think I hear some timid one saying, “Ah! I wish I could: the Lord knows how I
                    long to be doing some real work for him; but I am so weak, and so little adapted
                    to this kind of labour, I fear I should not succeed.”
                
                My dear brother,—sister,—we are of little use in any department of the vineyard
                    until we have been made to realise our own weakness. The weaker we feel
                    ourselves to be, the better. It is not a question of our STRENGTH, but of our FAITH. “Why look ye so
                    earnestly on us (said Peter to those who marvelled at the miracle wrought on the
                    lame), as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk? . .
                    . Faith in the name of Jesus has made this man strong, whom ye see and know.”
                    God does not call us to any work in our own strength; He bids us go and do it in
                    His. “Give ye them to eat,” said He to the Disciples, but He knew who must
                    supply the bread; so now He requires us to break the Bread of Life to the
                    multitude, trusting in Him for the supply. He hath chosen the weak
                    things of the world to confound the mighty. Why? That the excellency of the
                    power may be seen to be of God, and not of man.
                No matter how simple the words, or how tremulous the voice, if He blesses, then
                    it shall be blessed. The “Does you love God?” of a little child, accompanied by
                    the “demonstration of the Spirit and of power,” will do more for Christ and
                    souls than the most talented and eloquent sermon without it; for “it is not by
                    might nor by power, but by My Spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts.” Dear reader, are
                    you willing to be one of God’s chosen ones? or will you anger Him
                    by saying, “Send by who Thou wilt, but not by me?” Are you willing
                    to trample on self, and, taking hold of the strength of omnipotence, to go in
                    the power of His might, and do what you can? If so, His word to you is, “Fear
                    not; be strong, and of a good courage; neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord
                    thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest;” and “Lo, I am with you
                        alway, even to the end of the world.”
            
            
            
                FEMALE MINISTRY; 
                OR, WOMAN’S RIGHT TO PREACH THE GOSPEL.
                THE first and most common objection urged against the public exercises
                    of women, is, that they are unnatural and unfeminine. Many labour under a very
                    great but common mistake, viz. that of confounding nature with custom. Use, or
                    custom, makes things appear to us natural, which, in reality, are very
                    unnatural; while, on the other hand, novelty and rarity make very natural things
                    appear strange and contrary to nature. So universally has this power of custom
                    been felt and admitted, that it has given birth to the proverb, “Use is second
                    nature.” Making allowance for the novelty of the thing, we cannot discover
                    anything either unnatural or immodest in a Christian woman, becomingly attired,
                    appearing on a platform or in a pulpit. By nature she seems fitted
                    to grace either. God has given to woman a graceful form and attitude, winning
                    manners, persuasive speech, and, above all, a finely?toned emotional nature, all
                    of which appear to us eminent natural qualifications for public speaking. We admit that
                    want of mental culture, the trammels of custom, the force of prejudice, and
                    one?sided interpretations of Scripture, have hitherto almost excluded her from
                    this sphere; but, before such a sphere is pronounced to be unnatural, it must be
                    proved either that woman has not the ability to teach or to preach,
                    or that the possession and exercise of this ability unnaturalizes her in other
                    respects; that so soon as she presumes to step on the platform or into the
                    pulpit, she loses the delicacy and grace of the female character. Whereas, we
                    have numerous instances of her retaining all that is most esteemed in her sex,
                    and faithfully discharging the duties peculiar to her own sphere, and at the
                    same time taking her place with many of our most useful speakers and writers.
                    Why should woman be confined exclusively to the kitchen and the distaff, any
                    more than man to the field and workshop? Did not God, and has not nature,
                    assigned to man his sphere of labour, “to till the ground, and to
                    dress it”? And, if exemption is claimed from this kind of toil for a portion of
                    the male sex, on the ground of their possessing ability for intellectual and
                    moral pursuits, we must be allowed to claim the same privilege for woman; nor
                    can we see the exception more unnatural in the one case than the
                    other, or why God in this solitary instance has endowed a being with powers
                    which He never intended her to employ.
                There seems to be a great deal of unnecessary fear of women occupying any
                    position which involves publicity, lest she should be rendered unfeminine by the
                    indulgence of ambition or vanity; but why should woman any more than man be
                    charged with ambition when impelled to use her talents for the good of her race?
                    Moreover, as a labourer in the GOSPEL her position is
                    much higher than in any other public capacity; she is at once shielded from all
                    coarse and unrefined influences and associations; her very vocation tending to
                    exalt and refine all the tenderest and most womanly instincts of her nature. As
                    a matter of fact it is well known to those who have had oppor? tunities of observing the private character and
                    deportment of women engaged in preaching the gospel, that they have been amongst
                    the most amiable, self?sacrificing, and unobtrusive of their sex.
                “We well know,” says the late Mr. Gurney, a minister of the Society of Friends,
                    “that there are no women among us more generally distinguished for modesty,
                    gentleness, order, and right submission to their brethren, than those who have
                    been called by their Divine Master into the exercise of the Christian
                    ministry.”
                Who would dare to charge the sainted Madame Guyon, Lady Maxwell, the talented
                    mother of the Wesleys, Mrs. Fletcher, Mrs. Elizabeth Fry, Mrs. Smith, Mrs.
                    Whiteman, or Miss Marsh with being unwomanly or ambitious. Some of these ladies
                    we know have adorned by their private virtues the highest ranks of society, and
                    won alike from friends and enemies the highest eulogiums as to the devotedness,
                    purity, and sweetness of their lives. Yet these were all more or less public
                    women, every one of them expounding and exhorting from the Scriptures to mixed
                    companies of men and women. Ambitious doubtless they were; but theirs was an
                    ambition akin to His, who, for the “joy that was set before Him, endured the
                    cross, despising the shame:” and to his, who counted all things but dung and
                    dross, and was willing to be regarded as the off?scouring of all things that he
                    might win souls to Jesus and bring glory to God. Would that all the Lord’s
                    people had more of this ambition.
                Well, but, say our objecting friends, how is it that these whose names you
                    mention, and many others, should venture to preach when female ministry is
                        forbidden in the word of God? This is by far the most serious
                    objection which we have to consider—and if capable of substantiation, should
                    receive our immediate and cheerful acquiescence; but we think that we shall be
                    able to show, by a fair and consistent interpretation, that the very opposite
                    view is the truth; that not only is the public
                    ministry of woman unforbidden, but absolutely enjoined by both precept and
                    example in the word of God.
                And, first, we will select the most prominent and explicit passages of the New
                    Testament referring to the subject, beginning with 1 Corinthians xi. 1?15:
                    “Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoureth his
                    head. But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered,
                    dishonoureth her head; for that is all one as if she were shaven,” etc. “The
                    character,” says a talented writer, “of the prophesying here referred to by the
                    apostle is defined 1 Corinthians xiv. 3, 4, and 31st verses. The reader will see
                    that it was directed to the ‘edification, exhortation, and comfort of
                    believers;’ and the result anticipated was the conviction of unbelievers and
                    unlearned persons. Such were the public services of women which the apostle
                    allowed, and such was the ministry of females predicted by the prophet Joel, and
                    described as a leading feature of the gospel dispensation. Women who speak in
                    assemblies for worship under the influence of the Holy Spirit, assume thereby no
                    personal authority over others; they simply deliver the messages of the gospel,
                    which imply obedience, subjection, and responsibility, rather than authority and
                    power.” Dr. A. Clarke, on this verse, says, “Whatever may be the meaning of
                    praying and prophesying in respect to the man, they have precisely the same
                    meaning in respect to the woman! So that some women at least, as well as some
                    men, might speak to others to edification, exhortation, and comfort. And this
                    kind of prophesying or teaching was predicted by Joel ii. 28, and referred to by
                    Peter (Acts ii. 17). And, had there not been such gifts bestowed on woman, the
                    prophecy could not have had its fulfilment. The only difference marked by the
                    apostle was, the man had his head uncovered, because he was the representative
                    of Christ; the woman had hers covered, because she was placed by the order of
                    God in subjection to the man; and because it was the custom both among Greeks
                    and Romans, and among the Jews an express
                    law, that no woman should be seen abroad without a veil. This was
                    and is a custom through all the East, and none but public prostitutes go without
                    veils; if a woman should appear in public without a veil, she would
                        dishonour her head—her husband. And she must appear like to
                    those women who have their hair shaven off as the punishment of adultery.” See
                    also Doddridge, Whitby, and Cobbin.
                We think that the view above given is the only fair and common?sense
                    interpretation of this passage. If Paul does not here recognise the
                        fact that women did actually pray and prophesy in the primitive
                    Churches, his language has no meaning at all; and if he does not recognise their
                        right to do so by dictating the proprieties of their appearance
                    while so engaged, we leave to objectors the task of educing any sense whatever
                    from his language. If, according to the logic of Dr. Barnes, the apostle here,
                    in arguing against an improper and indecorous mode of performance, forbids the
                    performance itself, the prohibition extends to the men as well as
                    to the women; for Paul as expressly reprehends a man praying with
                        his head covered as he does a woman with hers
                    uncovered. With as much force might the Doctor assert that in reproving the same
                    Church for their improper celebration of the Lord’s Supper (1 Cor. xi. 20, 21),
                    Paul prohibits all Christians, in every age, celebrating it at all. “The
                    question with the Corinthians was not whether or not the woman should pray or
                    prophesy at all, that question had been settled on the day of Pentecost; but
                    whether, as a matter of convenience, they might do so without their veils.” The
                    apostle kindly and clearly explains that by the law of nature and of society it
                    would be improper to uncover her head while engaged in acts of public worship.
                    We think that the reflections cast on these women by Dr. Barnes and other
                    commentators are quite gratuitous and uncalled for. Here is no intimation that
                    they ever had uncovered their heads while so engaged; the fairest presumption is
                    that they had not, nor ever would till they knew the apostle’s mind on the
                        subject. We have precisely the same
                    evidence that the men prayed and preached with their hats on, as that women
                    removed their veils, and wore their hair dishevelled, which is simply none at
                    all. We cannot but regard it as a signal evidence of the power of prejudice,
                    that a man of Dr. Barnes’s general clearness and acumen should condescend to
                    treat this passage in the manner he does. The doctor evidently feels the
                    untenableness of his position; and endeavours, by muddling two passages of
                    distinct and different bearing, to annihilate the argument fairly deducible from
                    the first. We would like to ask the doctor on what authority he makes such an
                    exception as to the following: “But this cannot be interpreted as meaning that
                    it is improper for females to speak or to pray in meetings of their own sex.”
                    Indeed! but according to the most reliable statistics we possess, two?thirds of
                    the whole Church is, and always has been, composed of their own sex. If, then,
                    “no rule of the New Testament is more positive than this, viz. that women are to
                    keep silence in the Churches,” on whose authority does the doctor
                    license them to speak to by far the larger portion of the Church?
                A barrister writing us on the above passage, says “Paul here takes for granted
                    that women were in the habit of praying and prophesying; he expresses no
                    surprise nor utters a syllable of censure, he was only anxious that they should
                    not provoke unnecessary obloquy by laying aside their customary head?dress or
                    departing from the dress which was indicative of modesty in the country in which
                    they lived. This passage seems to prove beyond the possibility of dispute that
                    in the early times women were permitted to speak to the
                    ‘edification and comfort’ of Christians, and that the Lord graciously endowed
                    them with grace and gifts for this service. What He did then may He not be doing
                    now? It seems truly astonishing that Bible students, with the second chapter of
                    the Acts before them, should not see that an imperative decree has gone forth
                    from God, the execution of which women cannot escape; whether they like or not,
                    they ‘shall’ prophesy throughout the whole course of this dispensation; and they have been
                    doing so, though they and their blessed labours are not much noticed.”
                Well, but say our objecting friends, hear what Paul says in another place:—“Let
                    your women keep silence in the Churches, for it is not permitted unto them to
                    speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law. And
                    if they will learn* anything, let them ask
                    their husbands at home; for it is a shame for women to speak in the Church” (1
                    Cor. xiv. 34, 35). Now let it be borne in mind this is the same apostle, writing
                    to the same Church, as in the above instance. Will any one maintain that Paul
                    here refers to the same kind of speaking as before? If so, we insist on his
                    supplying us with some rule of interpretation which will harmonise this
                    unparalleled contradiction and absurdity. Taking the simple and common?sense
                    view of the two passages, viz. that one refers to the devotional and religious
                    exercises in the Church, and the other to inconvenient asking of questions, and
                    imprudent or ignorant talking, there is no contradiction or discrepancy, no
                    straining or twisting of either. If, on the other hand, we assume that the
                    apostle refers in both instances to the same thing, we make him in one page give
                    the most explicit directions how a thing shall be performed, which in a page or
                    two further on, and writing to the same Church, he expressly
                    forbids being performed at all. We admit that “it is a shame for
                    women to speak in the Church,” in the sense here intended by the Apostle; but
                    before the argument based on these words can be deemed of any worth, objectors
                    must prove that the “speaking” here is synonymous with that concerning that
                    manner of which the Apostle legislates in 1 Corinthians xi. * “Learning
                        anything by asking their husbands at home,” cannot mean
                            preaching. That is not learning, but teaching
                        “the way of God.” It cannot mean being inspired by the Holy Ghost to
                        foretell future events. No woman having either taught or prophesied, would
                        have to ask her husband at home before she knew what she had done, or
                        understood what she had said. Such women would be only fit to “learn in
                        silence with all subjection.” The reference is evidently to subjects under
                        debate. Dr. A. Clarke, on this
                    passage, says, “according to the prediction of Joel, the Spirit of God was to be
                    poured out on the women as well as the men, that they might
                    prophesy, that is, teach. And that they did prophesy or teach is
                    evident from what the apostle says (1 Cor. xi.), where he lays down rules to
                    regulate this part of their conduct while ministering in the Church. All that
                    the Apostle opposes here is their questioning, finding fault, disputing,
                        etc., in the Christian Church, as the Jewish men were permitted to do
                    in their synagogues (see Luke ii. 46); together with attempts to usurp authority
                    over men by setting up their judgment in opposition to them; for the Apostle has
                    reference to acts of disobedience and arrogance, of which no woman would be
                    guilty who was under the influence of the Spirit of God.”
                The Rev. J. H. Robinson, writing on this passage, remarks: “The silence imposed
                    here must be explained by the verb, to speak (??????), used afterwards. Whatever that verb means in this verse,
                    I admit and believe the women were forbidden to do in the Church.
                    But what does it mean ? It is used nearly three hundred times in the New
                    Testament, and scarcely any verb is used with so great a variety of adjuncts. In
                        Schleusner’s Lexicon, its meaning is traced under
                        seventeen distinct heads, and he occupies two full
                    pages of the book in explaining it. Among other meanings he gives respondeo, rationem reddo, præcipio,
                    jubeo; I answer, I return a reason, I give rule or precept, I order,
                    decree.” In Robinson’s Lexicon (Bloomfield’s edition), two
                    pages nearly are occupied with the explanation of this word; and he gives
                    instances of its meaning, “as modified by the context, where the
                    sense lies, not so much in ?????? (lalein) as in the adjuncts.” THE PASSAGE UNDER CONSIDERATION IS ONE OF THOSE TO WHICH HE REFERS
                        AS BEING SO “MODIFIED BY THE CONTEXT.”
                    Greenfield gives, with others, the following meanings of the word:
                    “to prattle—be loquacious as a child; to speak in answer—to answer,
                    as in John xix. 10; harangue. plead, Acts ix. 29; xxi. To
                        direct, command, Acts iii. 22.” In
                        Liddel and Scott’s Lexicon, the following meanings are
                    given: “to chatter, babble; of birds, to twitter,
                        chirp; strictly, to make an inarticulate sound, opposed
                    to articulate speech; but also generally, to talk, say.”
                “It is clear then that ?????? may mean
                    something different from mere speaking, and that to use this word in a
                    prohibition does not imply that absolute silence or abstinence from speaking is
                    enjoined; but, on the contrary, that the prohibition applies to an improper kind
                    of speaking, which is to be understood, not from the word itself, but, as Mr.
                    Robinson says, from ‘the context.’ Now, ‘the context’ shows that it was not
                        silence which was imposed upon women in the Church, but only a
                    refraining from such speaking as was inconsistent with the words, ‘they are
                    commanded to be under obedience,’ or, more literally, ‘to be obedient:’ that is,
                    they were to refrain from such questionings, dogmatical assertions, and
                    disputations, as would bring them into collision with the men—as would ruffle
                    their tempers, and occasion an unamiable volubility of speech. This kind of
                    speaking, and this alone, as it appears to me, was forbidden by the apostle in
                    the passage before us. This kind of speaking was the only supposable antagonist
                    to, and violation of ‘obedience.’ Absolute silence was not essential to that
                    ‘obedience.’ My studies in ‘Biblical criticism,’ etc., have not informed me that
                    a woman must cease to speak before she can obey; and I am therefore led to the
                    irresistible conclusion, that it is not all speaking in the Church
                    which the apostle forbids, and which he pronounces to be shameful; but, on the
                    contrary, a pertinacious, inquisitive, domineering, dogmatical kind of speaking,
                    which, while it is unbecoming in a man, is shameful and odious in a
                    woman, and especially when that woman is in the Church, and is speaking on the
                    deep things of religion.”
                Parkhurst, in his lexicon, tells us that the Greek word “‘lalein,’ which our
                    translation renders speak, is not the word used in Greek to signify
                    to speak with premeditation and prudence, but is the word used to signify to
                    speak imprudently and without consideration,
                    and is that applied to one who lets his tongue run but does not speak to the
                    purpose, but says nothing.” Now unless Parkhurst is utterly wrong in his Greek,
                    which it is apprehended no one will venture to affirm, Paul’s fulmination is not
                    launched against speech with premeditation and prudence, but against speech
                    devoid of these qualities. It would be well if all speakers of the male as well
                    as the female sex were obedient to this rule.
                We think that with the light cast on this text by the four eminent Greek scholars
                    above quoted, there can be no doubt in any unprejudiced mind as to the true
                    meaning of “lalein” in this connection. And we find from Church history that the
                    primitive Christians thus understood it, for that women did actually speak and
                    preach amongst them we have indisputable proof. God had promised in the last
                    days to pour out His Spirit upon all flesh, and that the daughters
                    as well as the sons of mankind should prophesy.
                And Peter says most emphatically, respecting the outpouring of the Spirit on the
                    day of Pentecost, “This is that which is spoken of by the prophet
                    Joel,” etc. (Acts ii. 16, 18.) Words more explicit, and an application of
                    Prophecy more direct than this does not occur within the range of the New
                    Testament.
                Commentators say, “If women have the gift of prophecy, they must not use that
                    gift in public.” But God says, by His prophet Joel, they shall use
                    it, just in the same sense as the sons use it. When the dictation of men so
                    flatly opposes the express declaration of the “sure word of prophesy,” we make
                    no apology for its utter and indignant rejection.
                Presbuteros, a talented writer of the Protestant Electoral Union, in his reply to
                    a priest of Rome, * says:—
                “Habituated for ages, as men had been, to the diabolical * We strongly commend
                        this pamphlet to the perusal of our readers. It contains much valuable
                        information as to the origin of much of the popish nonsense of our times.
                        Published by the 
                            Protestant
                            Frotestant
                         Electoral Union 14, Tavistock Street, Covent Garden, Price
                        6d. teaching and delusions
                    practiced upon them by the papal ‘priesthood,’ it was difficult for them, when
                    they did get possession of the Scriptures to discern therein the plain fact,
                    that among the primitive Christians preaching was not confined to men, but women
                    also, gifted with power by the Holy Spirit, preached the gospel; and hence the
                    slowness with which, even at the present time, this truth has been admitted by
                    those giving heed to the word of God, and especially those setting themselves up
                    as a ‘priesthood’ or a ‘clergy.’ As shown in page 66, God had, according to His
                    promise, on the day of Pentecost poured out His Holy Spirit upon believers—men
                    and women, old and young—that they should prophesy, and they
                        did so. The prophesying spoken of was not the foretelling of
                    events, but the preaching to the world at large the glad tidings of
                    salvation by Jesus Christ. For this purpose it pleased God to make use of
                        women as well as men. It is plainly the duty of every Christian
                    to insist upon the fulfilment of the will of God, and the abrogation of every
                    single thing inconsistent therewith. I would draw attention to the fact that
                    Phebe, a Christian woman whom we find in our version of the Scripture (Rom. xvi.
                    1) spoken of only as any common servant attached to a congregation, was nothing
                    less than one of those gifted by the Holy Spirit for publishing the glad
                        tidings, or preaching the gospel. The manner in which
                    the apostle (whose only care was the propagation of evangelical truth) speaks of
                    her, shows that she was what he in Greek styled her, a deacon (diaconon) or
                    preacher of the word. Our translators speak of her (because she was
                    a woman) only as ‘a servant of the Church which is at
                    Cenchrea.’ The men ‘deacons’ they styled ministers, but a woman on the same
                    level as themselves would be an anomaly, and therefore she was to be only the
                        servant of men ministers, who, in the popish
                        sense, constituted the Church!” The apostle says of
                    her—“I commend unto you Phebe our sister, who is a minister (diaconon) of the
                    Church which is at Cenchrea: that ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh
                        saints, and that ye assist her in
                        whatever business she hath need of you.” To the common sense of
                    disinterested minds it will be evident that the apostle could not have requested
                    more for any one of the most zealous of men preachers than he did for Phebe!
                    They were to assist “her in whatever business she” might require
                    their aid. Hence we discern that she had no such trifling position in the
                    primitive Church as at the present time episcopal dignitaries attach to deacons
                    and deaconesses! Observe, the same Greek word is used to designate her that was
                    applied to all the apostles and to Jesus Himself. For example: “Now I say that
                    Jesus Christ was a minister (diaconon) of the circumcision” (Rom. xv. 8). “Who
                    then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers (diaconoi) by whom ye believed”
                    (1 Cor. iii. 5). “Our sufficiency is of God; who also hath made us able
                    ministers (diaconous) of the new testament” (2 Cor. iii. 6). “In all things
                    approving ourselves as the ministers (diaconoi) of God” (vi. 4). The idea of a
                    woman deacon in the “three orders!”—it was intolerable, therefore
                    let her be a “servant.” Theodoret however says, “The fame of Phebe was spoken of
                    throughout the world. She was known not only to the Greeks and Romans, but also
                    to the Barbarians,” which implies that she had travelled much, and propagated
                    the gospel in foreign countries. See Doddridge, Cobbin, and Wesley, on this
                    passage.
                “Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow?prisoners, who are of note
                    among the apostles; who also were in Christ before me” (Rom. xvi. 7). By the
                    word “kinsmen” one would take Junia to have been a man; but Chrysostom and
                    Theophylact, who were both Greeks, and consequently knew their mother tongue
                    better than our translators, say Junia was a woman. Kinsmen should
                    therefore have been rendered kinsfolk; but with our translators it was out of
                    all character to have a woman of note amongst the apostles, and a
                    fellow?prisoner with Paul for the gospel: therefore let them be
                    kinsmen!
                Justin Martyr, who lived till about A.D. 150, says, in his dialogue with Trypho,
                    the Jew, “that both men and women were seen
                    among them who had the extraordinary gifts of the Spirit of God, according as
                    the prophet Joel had foretold, by which he endeavored to convince the Jews that
                    the latter days were come.”
                Dodwell, in his dissertations on Irenæus says, “that the gift of the spirit of
                    prophecy was given to others besides the apostles; and, that not only in the
                    first and second, but in the third century—even to the time of Constantine—all
                    sorts and ranks of men had these gifts; yea, and women too.”
                Eusebius speaks of Potomania Ammias, a prophetess, in Philadelphia, and others,
                    “who were equally distinguished for their love and zeal in the cause of
                    Christ.”
                “The scriptural idea,” says Mrs. Palmer, “of the terms preach and prophesy,
                    stands so inseparably connected as one and the same thing, that we should find
                    it difficult to get aside from the fact that women did preach, or, in other
                    words, prophesy, in the early ages of Christianity, and have continued to do so
                    down to the present time to just the degree that the spirit of the Christian
                    dispensation has been recognised. And it is also a significant fact, that to the
                    degree denominations, who have once favoured the practice, lose the freshness of
                    their zeal, and as a consequence, their primitive simplicity, and, as ancient
                    Israel, yield to a desire to be like surrounding communities, in a corresponding
                    ratio are the labours of females discountenanced.”
                If any one still insists on a literal application of this text, we beg to ask how
                    he disposes of the preceding part of the chapter where it occurs. Surely, if one
                    verse be so authoritative and binding, the whole chapter is equally so; and
                    therefore, those who insist on a literal application of the words of Paul, under
                    all circumstances and through all time, will be careful to observe the apostle’s
                    order of worship in their own congregations. But, we ask, where is the minister
                    who lets his whole Church prophesy one by one, and himself sits still and
                    listens while they are speaking, so that all things may be done decently and in
                    order? But Paul as expressly lays down this order as he does the rule for women, and he adds, “The things that I write unto
                    you are the commandments of the Lord” (ver. 37). Why then do not ministers abide
                    by these directions? We anticipate their reply—“Because these directions were
                    given to the Corinthians as temporary arrangements; and, though they were the
                    commandments of the Lord to them at that time, they do not apply to all
                    Christians in all times.” Indeed; but unfortunately for their argument, the
                    prohibition of women speaking even if it meant what they wish, was given amongst
                    those very directions, and to the Corinthians only: for it reads,
                    “Let your women keep silence,” &c.; and, for aught this
                    passage teaches to the contrary, Christian women of all other Churches might do
                    what these women were forbidden to do; until, therefore, learned divines make a
                    personal application of the rest of the chapter, they must excuse us declining
                    to do so of the 24th verse; and we challenge them to show any breach of the
                    Divine law in one case more than the other.
                Another passage frequently cited as prohibitory of female labour in the Church,
                    is 1 Timothy ii. 12, 13. Though we have never met with the slightest proof that
                    this text has any reference to the public exercises of women; nevertheless, as
                    it is often quoted, we will give it a fair and thorough examination. “It is
                    primarily an injunction,” says the Rev. J. H. Robinson, “respecting her personal
                    behavior at home. It stands in connection with precepts respecting her apparel
                    and her domestic position; especially her relation to her husband. No one will
                    suppose that the apostle forbids a woman to ‘teach’ absolutely and universally.
                    Even objectors would allow her to teach her own sex in private; they would let
                    her teach her servants and children, and perhaps, her husband too. If he were
                    ignorant of the Saviour, might she not teach him the way to Christ? If she were
                    acquainted with languages, arts or sciences, which he did not know, might she
                    not teach him these things? Certainly she might! The ‘teaching,’ therefore which
                    is forbidden by the apostle, is not every kind of teaching any more than, in the previous instance, his prohibition of
                    speaking applied to every kind of speaking in the Church; but it is such
                    teaching as is domineering, and as involves the usurpation of authority over the
                    man. This is the only teaching forbidden by St. Paul in the passage under
                    consideration.”
                “If this passage be not a prohibition of every kind of teaching, we can only
                    ascertain what kind of teaching is forbidden by the modifying expressions with
                    which didaskein stands associated:
                    and, for anything these modifying expressions affirm to the contrary, her
                    teaching may be public, reiterated, urgent, and may comprehend a variety of
                    subjects, provided it be not dictatorial, domineering, nor vociferous; for then,
                    and then only, would it be incompatible with her obedience.”
                The Rev. Dr. Taft says, “This passage should be rendered ‘I suffer not a woman to
                    teach by usurping authority over the man.’ This rendering removes
                    all the difficulties and contradictions involved in the ordinary reading, and
                    evidently gives the meaning of the apostle.” “If the nature of society,” says
                    the same writer, “its good and prosperity; in which women are jointly and
                    equally concerned with men; if in many cases their fitness and capacity for
                    instructors, being admitted to be equal to the other sex, be not reasons
                    sufficient to convince the candid reader of woman’s right to preach and teach
                    because of two texts in Paul’s epistles, let him consult the paraphrase of
                    Locke, where he has proved to a demonstration that the apostle, in these texts,
                    never intended to prohibit women from praying and preaching in the Church
                    provided they were dressed as became women professing godliness, and were
                    qualified for the sacred office.”
                “It will be found,” says another writer, “by an examination of this text with its
                    connections, that the teaching here alluded to stands in necessary connection
                    with usurping authority, as though the apostle had said, the gospel does not
                    alter the relation of women in view of priority, for Adam was first formed, then
                    Eve.”
                
                “This prohibition,” says the before?named barrister, “refers exclusively to the
                    private life and domestic character of woman, and simply means that an ignorant
                    or unruly woman is not to force her opinions on the man whether he will or no.
                    It has no reference whatever to good women living in obedience to God and their
                    husbands, or to women sent out to preach the gospel by the call of the Holy
                    Spirit.”
                If this context is allowed to fix the meaning of didaskein in this text, as it would be in any other, there can be
                    no doubt in any honest mind that the above is the only consistent
                    interpretation; and if it be, then this prohibition has no bearing whatever on
                    the religious exercises of women led and taught by the Spirit of God: and we
                    cannot forbear asking on whose skirts the mischief resulting from the false
                    application of this text will be found? Thank God the day is dawning with
                    respect to this subject. Women are studying and investigating for themselves.
                    They are claiming to be recognised as responsible human beings, answerable to
                        GOD for their convictions of duty; and, urged by the
                    Divine Spirit they are overstepping those unscriptural barriers which the Church
                    has so long reared against its performance.
                Whether the Church will allow women to speak in her assemblies can
                    only be a question of time; common sense, public opinion, and the blessed
                    results of female agency will force her to give us an honest and impartial
                    rendering of the solitary text on which she grounds her prohibitions. Then, when
                    the true light shines and God’s words take the place of man’s traditions, the
                    Doctor of Divinity who shall teach that Paul commands woman to be silent when
                    God’s Spirit urges her to speak, will be regarded much the same as we should now
                    regard an astronomer who should teach that the sun is the earth’s satellite.
                Another argument urged against female preaching is, that it is unnecessary; that
                    there is plenty of scope for her efforts in private, in visiting the sick and
                    poor and working for the tem? poralities of
                    the Church. Doubtless woman ought to be thankful for any sphere for benefiting
                    her race and glorifying God. But we cannot be blind to the supreme selfishness
                    of making her so welcome to the hidden toil and self?sacrifice, the hewing of
                    wood and the drawing of water, the watching and waiting, the reproach and
                    persecution attaching to her Master’s service, without allowing her a tittle of
                    the honour which He has attached to the ministration of His gospel. Here, again,
                    man’s theory and God’s order are at variance. God says, “Them that honour me I
                    will honour.” Our Lord links the joy with the suffering, the glory with the
                    shame, the exaltation with the humiliation, the crown with the cross, the
                    finding of life with the losing of it. Nor did He manifest any such horror at
                    female publicity in His cause as many of His professed people appear to
                    entertain in these days. We have no intimation of His reproving the Samaritan
                    woman for her public proclamation of Him to her countrymen; not of His rebuking
                    the women who followed Him amidst a taunting mob on His way to the cross. And
                    yet, surely, privacy was their proper sphere. On one
                    occasion He did say, with reference to a woman, “Verily, I say unto
                    you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall
                    also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her” (Matt.
                    xxvi. 12; see also Luke vii. 37?50).
                As to the obligation devolving on woman to labour for her Master, I presume there
                    will be no controversy. The particular sphere in which each individual shall do
                    this must be dictated by the teachings of the Holy Spirit and the gifts with
                    which God has endowed her. If she have the necessary gifts, and feels herself
                    called by the Spirit to preach, there is not a single word in the whole book of
                    God to restrain her, but many, very many to urge and encourage her. God says she
                        SHALL do so, and Paul prescribes the manner in which
                    she shall do it, and Phebe, Junia, Philip’s four daughters, and many other women
                    actually did preach and speak in the primitive
                    Churches. If this had not been the case, there would have been less freedom
                    under the new than under the old dispensation. A greater paucity of gifts and
                    agencies under the Spirit than under the law. Fewer labourers when more work to
                    be done. Instead of the destruction of caste and division between the priesthood
                    and the people, and the setting up of a spiritual kingdom in which all true
                    believers were “kings and priests unto God,” the division would have been more
                    stringent and the disabilities of the common people greater. Whereas we are told
                    again and again in effect, that in “Christ Jesus there is neither bond nor free,
                    male nor female, but ye are all one in Christ Jesus.”
                We commend a few passages bearing in the ministrations of woman under the old
                    dispensation to the careful consideration of our readers. “And Deborah, a
                    prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time,” etc. (Jud.
                    iv. 4?10). There are two particulars in this passage worthy of note. First, the
                    authority of Deborah as a prophetess, or revealer of God’s will to Israel, was
                    acknowledged and submitted to as implicitly as in the cases of the male judges
                    who succeeded her. Secondly, she is made the military head of ten thousand men,
                    Barak refusing to go to battle without her.
                Again, in 2 Kings xxii. 12?20, we have an account of the king sending the
                    high?priest, the scribe, etc., to Huldah, the prophetess, the wife of Shallum,
                    who dwelt at Jerusalem, in the college, to inquire at her mouth the will of God
                    in reference to the book of the law which had been found in the house of the
                    Lord. The authority and dignity of Huldah’s message to the king does not betray
                    anything of that trembling diffidence or abject servility which some persons
                    seem to think should characterize the religious exercises of woman. She answers
                    him as the prophetess of the Lord, having the signet of the King of kings
                    attached to her utterances.
                “The Lord gave the word, and great was the company of those that published it”
                    (Ps. lxviii. 11). In the original Hebrew it
                    is, “Great was the company of women publishers, or women evangelists.” Grotius
                    explains this passage, “The Lord shall give the word, that is plentiful matter
                    of speaking; so that he would call those which follow the great army of
                    preaching women, victories, or female conquerers.” How comes it that the
                    feminine word is actually excluded in this text? That it is there as plainly as
                    any other word no Hebrew scholar will deny. It is too much to assume that as our
                    translators could not alter it, as they did “Diaconon” when applied
                    to Phebe, they preferred to leave it out altogether rather than give a prophecy
                    so unpalatable to their prejudice. But the Lord gives the word and He will
                    choose whom He pleases to publish it; not withstanding the condemnation of
                    translators and divines.
                “For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the
                    house of servants; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam” (Mic. vi.
                    4).
                God here classes Miriam with Moses and Aaron, and declares that He
                    sent her before His people. We fear that had some of our friends been men of
                    Israel at that time, they would have disputed such a leadership.
                In the light of such passages as these, who will dare to dispute the fact that
                    God did under the old dispensation endue his handmaidens with the gifts and
                    calling of prophets answering to our present idea of preachers. Strange indeed
                    would it be if under the fulness of the gospel dispensation, there
                    were nothing analogous to this, but “positive and explicit rules,” to prevent
                    any approximation thereto. We are thankful to find, however, abundant evidence
                    that the “spirit of prophecy which is the testimony of Jesus,” was poured out on
                    the female as fully as on the male disciple, and “His daughters and His
                    handmaidens” prophesied. We commend the following texts from the New Testament
                    to the careful consideration of our readers.
                “And she (Anna) was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served
                    God with fastings and prayers night and day. And she coming in that instant,
                    gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of Him to all them that looked for
                    redemption on Jerusalem” (Luke ii. 37, 38). Can any one explain wherein this
                    exercise of Anna’s differed from that of Simeon, recorded just before? It was in
                    the same public place, the temple. It was during the same service. It was
                    equally public, for she “spake of Him to all who looked for
                    redemption in Jerusalem” (see Watson on this passage).
                Jesus said to the two Marys, “All hail! And they came and held Him by the feet,
                    and worshipped Him. Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go,
                    tell my brethren that they go before me into Galilee” (Matt. xxviii. 9, 10).
                    There are two or three points in this beautiful narrative to which we wish to
                    call the attention of our readers.
                First, it was the first announcement of the glorious news to a lost
                    world and a company of forsaking disciples. Second, it was as
                        public as the nature of the case demanded; and intended
                    ultimately to be published to the ends of the earth. Third, Mary was expressly
                    commissioned to reveal the fact to the apostles; and thus she literally became
                    their teacher in that memorable occasion. Oh, glorious privilege, to be allowed
                    to herald the glad tidings of a Savior risen! How could it be that our Lord
                    chose a woman to this honour? Well, one reason might be that the
                    male disciples were all missing at the time. They all forsook Him and fled. But
                    woman was there, as she had ever been, ready to minister to her risen, as to her
                    dying, Lord— 
                        “Not she with traitorous lips her Savior stung,
                        Not she denied Him with unholy tongue;
                        She, whilst apostles shrunk, could danger brave;
                        Last at the cross, and earliest at the grave.”
                     But surely, if the dignity of our Lord of His message were likely to be
                    imperiled by committing this sacred trust to a
                    woman, He who was guarded by legions of angels could have commanded another
                    messenger; but, as if intent on doing her honour and rewarding her unwavering
                    fidelity, He reveals Himself first to her; and, as an evidence that
                    He had taken out of the way the curse under which she had so long groaned,
                    nailing it to His cross, He makes her who had been first in the transgression,
                    first also in the glorious knowledge of complete redemption.
                “Acts i. 14, and ii. 1, 4. We are in the first of these passages expressly told
                    that the women were assembled with the disciples on the day of Pentecost; and in
                    the second, that the cloven tongues sat upon them each, and the
                    Holy Ghost filled them all, and they spake as the Spirit gave them
                    utterance. It is nothing to the point to argue that the gift of tongues was a
                    miraculous gift, seeing that the Spirit was the primary bestowment. The tongues
                    were only emblematical of the office which the Spirit was henceforth to sustain
                    to His people. The Spirit was given alike to the female as to the male disciple,
                    and this is cited by Peter (16, 18), as the peculiar speciality of the latter
                    dispensation. What a remarkable device of the devil that he has so long
                    succeeded in hiding this characteristic of the latter day glory! He
                    knows, whether the Church does or not, how eminently detrimental to the
                    interests of his kingdom have been the religious labours of woman; and while her
                    Seed has mortally bruised his head, he ceases not to bruise her heel; but the
                    time of her deliverance draweth nigh.”
                
                    “PHILIP THE EVANGLELIST HAD FOUR DAUGHTERS, VIRGINS, WHICH DID
                        PROPHESY.” FROM EUSEBIUS, THE ANCIENT ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORIAN, WE LEARN
                        THAT PHILIP’S DAUGHTERS LIVED TO A GOOD OLD AGE, ALWAYS ABOUNDING IN THE
                        WORK OF THE LORD. “MIGHTY LUMINARIES,” HE WRITES, “ HAVE FALLEN ASLEEP IN
                        ASIA. PHILIP, AND TWO OF HIS VIRGIN DAUGHTERS, SLEEP AT HIERAPOLIS; THE
                        OTHER, AND THE BELOVED DISCIPLE, JOHN, REST AT EPHESUS.”
                
                “And I entreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement
                    also, and with other my fellow?labourers” (Phil. iv. 3).
                This is a recognition of female labourers, not
                        concerning the gospel but in the gospel, whom Paul
                    classes with Clement, and other his fellow?labourers. Precisely the same terms
                    are applied to Timotheus, whom Paul styles a “minister of God, and his
                    fellow?labourer in the gospel of Christ” (1 Thess. iii. 2).
                Again, “Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus; who have for my
                    life laid down their own necks; unto whom not only I give thanks, but all the
                    Churches of the Gentiles” (Rom. xvi. 3, 4).
                THE WORD RENDERED HELPERS MEANS A FELLOW?LABOURER, ASSOCIATE,
                            COADJUTOR,* WORKING TOGETHER, AN
                        ASSISTANT, A JOINT LABOURER, A COLLEAGUE.†
                        IN THE NEW TESTAMENT SPOKEN
                    ONLY OF A CO?WORKER, HELPER IN A CHRISTIAN WORK,
                        THAT IS OF CHRISTIAN TEACHERS.‡ HOW CAN
                        THESE TERMS, WITH ANY SHOW OF CONSISTENCY, BE MADE TO APPLY MERELY TO THE
                        EXERCISE OF HOSPITALITY TOWARDS THE APOSTLE, OR THE DUTY OF PRIVATE
                        VISITATION. TO BE A PARTNER, COADJUTOR, OR JOINT WORKER
                    WITH
                    A PREACHER OF THE GOSPEL, MUST BE SOMETHING MORE THAN TO BE HIS
                        WAITING?MAID.
                Again, “Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved
                    Persis, which laboured much in the Lord” (Rom. xvi. 12). Dr. Clarke, on this
                    verse, says, “Many have spent much useless labour in endeavouring to prove that
                    these women did not preach. That there were prophetesses as well as prophets in
                    the Church we learn, and that a woman might pray or prophesy provided that she
                    had her head covered we know; and, according to St. Paul (1 Cor. xiv. 3),
                    whoever prophesied spoke unto others to edification, exhortation, and comfort,
                    and that no preacher can do more every person must acknowledge. Because, to
                    edify, exhort, and comfort, are the prime ends of the gospel ministry. If women
                    thus prophesied, then women preached.”
                * Greenfield.
                † Dunbar.
                ‡ Robinson.
                
                “There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all
                    one in Christ Jesus” (Gal. iii. 28). If this passage does not teach that in the
                    privileges, duties, and responsibilities of Christ’s Kingdom, all differences of
                    nation, caste, and sex are abolished, we should like to know what it does teach,
                    and wherefore it was written (see also 1 Cor. vii. 22).
                As we have before observed, the text, Corinthians xiv. 34, 35, is the only
                        one in the whole book of God which even by a false translation can be
                    made prohibitory of female speaking in the Church; how comes it then, that by
                    this one isolated passage, which, according to our best Greek authorities,* is wrongly rendered and wrongly applied,
                    woman’s lips have been sealed for centuries, and the “testimony of Jesus, which
                    is the spirit of prophecy,” silenced, when bestowed on her? How is it that this
                    solitary text has been allowed to stand unexamined and unexplained, nay, that
                    learned commentators who have known its true meaning as perfectly
                    as either Robinson, Bloomfield, Greenfield, Scott, Parkhurst, or Locke have
                    upheld the delusion, and enforced it as a Divine precept binding on all female
                    disciples through all time? Surely there must have been some unfaithfulness,
                    “craftiness,” and “handling of the word of life deceitfully” somewhere. Surely
                    the love of caste and unscriptural jealousy for a separated priesthood has had
                    something to do with this anomaly. By this course divines and commentators have
                    involved themselves in all sorts of inconsistencies and contradictions; and
                    worse, they have nullified some of the most precious promises of God’s word.
                    They have set the most explicit predictions of prophecy at variance with
                    apostolic injunctions, and the most immediate and wonderful operations of the
                    Holy Ghost in direct opposition “to positive, explicit, and universal
                    rules.”
                Notwithstanding, however, all this opposition to female ministry on the part of
                    those deemed authorities in the Church, * Disinterested witnesses every one will allow. there have been some in all ages in whom the
                    Holy Ghost has wrought so mightily, that at the sacrifice of reputation and all
                    things most dear, they have been compelled to come out as witnesses for Jesus
                    and ambassadors of His gospel. As a rule, these women have been amongst the most
                    devoted and self?denying of the Lord’s people, giving indisputable evidence by
                    the purity and beauty of their lives that they were led by the Spirit of God.
                    Now, if the word of God forbids female ministry, we would ask how it happens
                    that so many of the most devoted handmaidens of the Lord have felt themselves
                    constrained by the Holy Ghost to exercise it? Surely there must be some mistake
                    somewhere, for the word and the Spirit cannot contradict each other. Either the
                    word does not condemn women preaching, or these confessedly holy women have been
                    deceived. Will any one venture to assert that such women as Mrs. Elizabeth Fry,
                    Mrs. Fletcher of Madely, and Mrs. Smith, have been deceived with respect to
                    their call to deliver the gospel messages to their fellow?creatures? If not,
                    then God does not call and qualify women to preach, and His word,
                    rightly understood, cannot forbid what His Spirit enjoins. Further, it is a
                    significant fact, which we commend to the consideration of all thoughtful
                    Christians, that the public ministry of women has been eminently owned of God in
                    the salvation of souls and the edification of His people. Paul refers to the
                        fruits of his labours as evidence of His Divine commission (1
                    Cor. ix. 20). “If I am not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you:
                    for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.” If this criterion be
                    allowed to settle the question respecting woman’s call to preach, we have no
                    fear as to the result. A few examples of the blessing which has attended the
                    ministrations of females, may help to throw some light on this matter of a
                    Divine call.
                At a missionary meeting held at Columbia, March 26th, 1824, the name of Mrs.
                    Smith, of the Cape of Good Hope, was brought before the meeting, when Sir
                    Richard Otley, the chair? man, said, “The name
                    of Mrs. Smith has been justly celebrated by the religious world and in the
                    colony of the Cape of Good Hope. I heard a talented missionary state, that
                    wherever he went in that colony, at 600 or 1,000 miles from the principal seat
                    of government, among the natives of Africa, and wherever he saw persons
                    converted to Christianity, the name of Mrs. Smith was hailed as the person from
                    whom they received their religious impressions; and although no less than ten
                    missionaries, all men of piety and industry, were stationed in that settlement,
                    the exertions of Mrs. Smith alone were more efficacious, and had been attended
                    with greater success than the labours of those missionaries combined.” The Rev.
                    J. Campbell, missionary to Africa, says, “So extensive were the good effects of
                    her pious exhortations, that on my first visit to the colony, wherever I met
                    with persons of evangelical piety, I generally found that their first
                    impressions of religion were ascribed to Mrs. Smith.”
                Mrs. Mary Taft, the talented lady of the Rev. Dr. Taft, was another eminently
                    successful labourer in the Lord’s vineyard. “If,” says Mrs. Palmer, “the
                    criterion by which we may judge of a Divine call to proclaim salvation be by the
                    proportion of fruit gathered, then to the commission Mrs. Taft is appended the
                    Divine signature, to a degree pre?eminently unmistakable. In reviewing her
                    diary, we are constrained to believe that not one minister in five hundred could
                    produce so many seals to their ministry. An eminent minister informed us that of
                    those who had been brought to Christ through her labours, over two hundred
                    entered the ministry. She seldom opened her mouth in public assemblies, either
                    in prayer or speaking, but the Holy Spirit accompanied her words in such a
                    wonderful manner, that sinners were convicted, and, as in apostolic times, were
                    constrained to cry out, ‘What must we do to be saved?’ She laboured under the
                    sanction and was hailed as a fellow?helper in the gospel by the Revs. Messrs.
                    Mather, Pawson, Hearnshaw, Blackborne, Marsden, Bramwell, Vasey, and many other
                    equally dis? tinguished ministers of her
                    time.” The Rev. Mr. Pawson, when President of the Wesleyan Conference, writes as
                    follows to a circuit where Mrs. Taft was stationed with her husband, where she
                    met with some gainsayers:—‘It is well known that religion has been for some time
                    at a very low ebb in Dover. I therefore could not help thinking that is was a
                    kind providence that Mrs. Taft was stationed among you, and that, by the
                    blessing of God, she might be the instrument of reviving the work of God among
                    you. I seriously believe Mrs. Taft to be a deeply pious, prudent, modest woman.
                    I believe the Lord hath owned and blessed her labours very much, and many, yea,
                    very many souls have been brought to the saving knowledge of God by her
                    preaching. Many have come to hear her out of curiosity, who would not have come
                    to hear a man, and have been awakened and converted to God. I do assure you
                    there is much fruit of her labours in many parts of our connection.”
                Mrs. Fletcher, the wife of the sainted vicar of Madeley, was another of the
                    daughters of the Lord on whom was poured the spirit of prophecy. This eminently
                    devoted lady opened an orphan house, and devoted her time, her heart, and her
                    fortune, to the work of the Lord. The Rev. Mr. Hodson, in referring to her
                    public labours, says, “Mrs. Fletcher was not only luminous but truly
                    eloquent—her discourses displayed much good sense, and were fraught with the
                    riches of the gospel. She excelled in the poetry of an orator which can alone
                    supply the place of all the rest—that eloquence which goes directly to the
                    heart. She was the honoured instrument of doing much good; and the fruit of her
                    labours is now manifest in the lives and tempers of numbers who will be her
                    crown of rejoicing in the day of the Lord.” The Rev. Henry Moore sums up a fine
                    eulogium on her character and labours by saying, “May not every pious churchman
                    say, Would to God all the Lord’s people were such prophets and
                    prophetesses!”
                Miss Elizabeth Hurrell travelled through many counties in England, preaching the
                    unsearchable riches of Christ; and very many
                    were, through her instrumentality, brought to a knowledge of the truth, not a
                    few of whom were afterwards called to fill very honourable stations in the
                    Church.
                From the Methodist Conference, held at Manchester, 1787, Mr. Wesley wrote to Miss
                    Sarah Mallett, whose labours, while very acceptable to the people, had been
                    opposed by some of the preachers:—“We give the right hand of fellowship to Sarah
                    Mallett, and have no objection to her being a preacher in our
                        connection, so long as she preaches Methodist doctrine, and attends
                    to our discipline.”
                Such are a few examples of the success attending the public labours of females in
                    the gospel. We might give many more, but our space only admits of a bare mention
                    of Mrs. Wesley, Mrs. Rogers, Mrs. President Edwards, Mrs. Elizabeth Fry, Mrs.
                    Hall, Mrs. Gilbert, Miss Lawrence, Miss Newman, Miss Miller, Miss Tooth, and
                    Miss Cutler, whose holy lives and zealous labours were owned of God in the
                    conversion of thousands of souls, and the abundant edification of the Lord’s
                    people.
                Nor are the instances of the spirit of prophecy bestowed on women confined to
                    by?gone generations: the revival of this age, as well as of every other, has
                    been marked by this endowment, and the labours of such pious and talented ladies
                    as Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Finney, Mrs. Wightman, Miss Marsh,* with numberless other Marys and Phebes, have
                    contributed in no small degree to its extension and power.
                We have endeavored in the foregoing pages to establish, what we sincerely
                    believe, that woman has a right to teach. Here the whole question
                    hinges. If she has the right, she has it independently of any
                    man?made restrictions which do not equally refer to the opposite sex. If she has
                    the right, and * The
                        record of this lady’s labours has long been before the public. “English Hearts and Hands,” in a truly fascinating
                        manner, describes the wonderful success with which those labours have been
                        attended. Well has it been for the spiritual interest of hundreds that no
                        sacerdotal conclave has been able to place the seal of silence upon her
                        lips, and assign her to ‘privacy as her proper
                        sphere.’ possesses the
                    necessary qualifications, we maintain that, where the law of expediency does not
                    prevent, she is at liberty to exercise it without any further pretensions to
                    inspiration than those put forth by that male sex. If, on the other hand, it can
                    be proved that she has not the right, but that imperative silence
                    is imposed upon her by the word of God, we cannot see who has authority to relax
                    or make exceptions to the law.
                If commentators had dealt with the Bible on other subjects as they have dealt
                    with it on this, taking isolated passages, separated from their explanatory
                    connections, and insisting on a literal interpretation of the words of our
                    version, what errors and contradictions would have been forced upon the
                    acceptance of the Church, and what terrible results would have accrued to the
                    world. On this principle the Universalist will have all men unconditionally
                    saved, 
                        because
                        bccause
                     the Bible says, “Christ is the Saviour of all men,” etc. The
                    Antinomian, according to this rule of interpretation, has most unquestionable
                    foundation for his dead faith and hollow profession, seeing that St. Paul
                    declares over and over again that men are “saved by faith and not by works.” The
                    Unitarian, also, in support of that soul?withering doctrine, triumphantly refers
                    to numerous passages which, taken alone, teach only the humanity of Jesus. In
                    short, “there is no end to the errors in faith and practice which have resulted
                    from taking isolated passages, wrested from their proper connections, or the
                    light thrown upon them by other Scriptures, and applying them to sustain a
                    favourite theory.” Judging from the blessed results which have almost invariably
                    followed the ministrations of women in the cause of Christ, we fear it will be
                    found, in the great day of account, that a mistaken and unjustifiable
                    application of the passage, “Let your women keep silence in the Churches,” has
                    resulted in more loss to the Church, evil to the world, and dishonour to God,
                    than any of the errors we have already referred to.
                And feeling, as we have long felt, that this is a subject of vast importance to
                    the interests of Christ’s kingdom and the
                    glory of God, we would most earnestly commend its consideration to those who
                    have influence in the Churches. We think it a matter worthy of their
                    consideration whether God intended woman to bury her talents and influence as
                    she now does? And whether the circumscribed sphere of woman’s religious labours
                    may not have something to do with the comparative non?success of the gospel in
                    these latter days.
            
            
            
                HOT SAINTS.
                BEING THE OUTLINE OF AN ADDRESS ON REV. III. 15: “I WOULD THOU WERT
                    COLD OR HOT.”
                WHY does God like people to be hot in His service?—For the same reasons
                    that we like people to be hot in ours. We have no confidence in half?and?half,
                    fast and loose friends; milk?warm adherents who in times of danger wait to see
                    which way the wind blows before they commit themselves to our views, or
                    interests—servants who will serve us, while at the same time they can serve
                    themselves, but the moment our interests and theirs appear to clash will leave
                    us to our fate. We like thorough, whole?hearted, all length friends and
                    servants, and to such only do we confide our secrets, or trust our important
                    enterprises. We may use the half?hearted as far as they serve our
                    purpose, but we have no confidence in them—no heart?fellowship with them, no joy
                    over them: we would rather they were hot or cold—out and out
                    friends or foes.
                Read in your own heart and mind, in this respect, a transcript of His, and see
                    the reason why He says, “I would thou wert cold or hot.” I want you to note two
                    or three characteristics of hot saints so that you may know whether you belong
                    to the number. To be hot implies the
                    possession of—I. Light; II. Purity; III. Pungency; IV. Power.
                I. Light.—Hot saints have such a halo round about them that they reveal—make
                    manifest sin in others. They do this—1st, by contrast. “What fellowship hath
                    light with darkness?” The light of God flashed from a hot saint on the dark
                    consciences of sinners makes them feel their sin, misery and
                    danger, and if they will receive it, leads to their conversion. It “opens their
                    eyes,” and if they will follow it, leads them to Jesus. “Almost thou persuadest
                    me to be a Christian.” “Come, see a man which told me all things that ever I
                    did.” “Ye are the light of the world.” If sinners reject this light their
                    rejection seals their sins upon them, and renders their condemnation double. “If
                    I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin; but now they have no
                    cloak for their sin.” What a fearful responsibility rests on all sinners who are
                    brought into contact with saints who are filled with the light of God. Some of
                    you here are living under this light: How are you using it? Beware!
                2nd. Light reveals sin by antipathy. “Everyone that doeth evil hateth the light,
                    neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.” The presence of
                    a certain degree of spiritual light must produce either repentance
                    or opposition. A dark soul cannot dwell in the presence of a soul full of light
                    without either repenting or opposing, if it does not submit it will rebel. It
                    was under the hot blaze of this light that the Jews round about Stephen “were
                    cut to the heart, and gnashed upon him with their teeth.” The effect of his
                    light on their darkness was to reveal their enmity and scorch them into a fury
                    of opposition. When intense spiritual light and darkness are brought in contact,
                    their innate antipathy makes them reveal each other. The devil could not endure
                    the presence of Jesus without crying out, “I know Thee who Thou
                    art, the Holy One of God.”
                How is it with you saints here in this respect? Can you get along with dark souls without eliciting their enmity?
                    If so, depend upon it you have not much light—not that light which accompanies
                    great heat. If you don’t want to be spued out of the mouth of God see to it,
                    that you get it!
                3rd. Light reveals sin by reproof. Hot saints will “rebuke their neighbour and
                    not suffer sin upon him.” They are full of zeal for the glory of God, and
                    jealousy for His honour; it breaks their hearts because men keep not His law.
                    They know that they have the light of life, and they feel that they
                        must hold it up over the wrong?doing, deception, and hypocrisy
                    of their fellow men in order to “open their eyes, and turn them from darkness to
                    light.” You never hear them apologising for sin or calling it by smooth names;
                    they feel towards sin, in their measure, as God feels towards it. It is the
                    abominable thing which they hate, and therefore they cannot in any case allow
                    it, pander to it, or excuse it. Hot saints will mercilessly turn the blazing
                    lamp of God’s truth on the conscience of the sinner with reproof as pungent,
                    pointed, and personal as Nathan gave to David, Jehu to Jehosaphat, or Jesus to
                    the Jews.
                II. Purity.—Heat cleanses, purges away dross, destroys noxious vapours. So the
                    burning fire of the Holy Ghost purifies the soul which is filled, permeated with
                    it, hence hot saints are pure. They purify themselves, as He is pure. Their
                    garments are white, they keep themselves “unspotted from the world.” They
                    improve the moral atmosphere wherever they go. Their very presence reproves and
                    holds in check the unfruitful works of darkness, and sinners feel as Peter felt
                    when he said, “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord.”
                III. Pungency. Heat burns. Hot saints set on fire the hearts of other saints.
                    They singe the consciences of sinners, burn the fingers of Pharisees, melt the
                    hearts of backsliders, and warm up those who have left their first love.
                IV. Power.—Hot saints are mighty. The spirit is not given by measure unto them. They may not be very
                    intellectual or learned, but their heat makes more impression on the hearts of
                    sinners, and stirs more opposition from hell than all the intellect and learning
                    of a whole generation of lukewarm professors. The fishermen of Galilee produced
                    more impression on the world in three years than all the learning of the Jewish
                    had done in centuries, because they were hot in the love and
                    service of God. Hot saints are more than a match for their enemies. Satan
                    himself is afraid of them. “Paul I know, ” said he; yea, and he knows and fears
                    all such. Wicked men cannot stand before them; the power of their testimony cuts
                    them to the heart, and makes them either cry out, “What must we do to be saved?”
                    or, “Away with him! away with him.” Hot people are not only able to work, but to
                    suffer. They can endure hardness, suffer reproach, contend with principalities
                    and powers, fight with wild beasts, hail persecution and death!
                V. To be hot ensures opposition—1st, From Pharisees. They look with contempt on
                    hot people, call them fanatics, extreme people, troublers of Israel, disturbers
                    of the peace of the Church, occasions of reproach to the respectable and
                    reasonable part of the Church.
                The Pharisees were the bitterest enemies of Him who said, “The zeal of thine
                    house hath eaten Me up.” And they are still the bitterest enemies of those who
                    are filled with His Spirit. It matters not that they have now a Christian creed
                    instead of a Jewish; the spirit is the same, and will not tolerate “God manifest
                    in the flesh.” A formal, ceremonious, respectable religion they do not object
                    to; but a living, burning, enthusiastic Christianity is still Beelzebub! to
                    them.
                2nd. To be hot ensures opposition from the world. The world hates hot saints,
                    because they look with contempt on its pleasures, set at naught its maxims and
                    customs, trample on its ambition and applause, ignore its rewards, abjure its
                    spirit, and live altogether above its level. “Because ye are not of the world,
                    therefore the world hateth you.” It can tolerate warm religionists—rational, decent people, who appreciate
                    this world as well as the next, and can see how to make the best of it; but
                    these “hot,” “pestilent,” “mad” “fools,” who obtrude their religion everywhere,
                    who are at everybody about their souls, who are always talking about God, death,
                    judgment, heaven, and hell—“Away with them! they are not fit to live.”
                3rd. To be hot ensures opposition from the devil. Oh, how he hates these hot
                    saints! What trouble he takes to trip them. He knows they are worth it. Many a
                    council is held in hell over these. They set fire to his standing corn. They
                    rout his best trained legions. They shake the foundations of his throne. They
                    take the prey out of his very jaws; they pull it out of his fires. He
                        must do something! He sets his principalities and powers to
                    work on them. Loose and feeble fiends will do for lukewarm people,
                    but these he must take in hand himself, and try all the guile and force of his
                    gigantic intellect on them. He troubles them on every side, and at last, when
                    God permits, he has their heads off. He got Paul’s, but they defy him even when
                    they are between his teeth; he cannot swallow them; they escape out of his very
                    jaws to glory, and who knows the mischief they work his kingdom, up there.
                    Hallelujah! our arch enemy is a conquered foe. Let me remind you, in conclusion,
                    that to be hot ensures God’s special favour, protection and fellowship, and our
                    final victory. “Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a
                    crown of life.” Whereas to be lukewarm is to be spued out of His mouth, which
                    indicates special dislike, disgrace, and final abandonment.
                WHICH WILL YOU BE, HOT OR LUKEWARM?
            
            
            
                CONSCIENCE.
                
                    
                        “And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of
                            offence toward God and toward men.”—
                        ACTS xxiv. 16.
                    
                
                PERHAPS there is no complaint more frequently on the lips of those who
                    mourn over leanness of soul than this: “My faith is so weak: I want more faith;”
                    and doubtless a weak faith is the secret of a great deal of the barrenness and
                    misery of many Christians; but it never seems to occur to them to ask why their
                    faith is weak? why they find themselves powerless to appropriate the promises of
                    God? “Yes,” said a dying backslider to a man of God who was trying to comfort
                    him by quoting the promises; “yes, I believe they are true, but somehow they
                    won’t stick!” The fault was in the state of his own heart. He could not
                    appropriate the promises, because he knew that he was not the
                        character to whom they were made.
                Now it seems to me that a great deal of failure in faith is simply the result of
                    a defiled conscience, and if those who find themselves weak and sickly in
                    spiritual life would turn their attention to the condition of their
                        consciences they would soon discover the reason for all their
                    failure. The fact is, we have a great deal of so?called Christianity in these
                    days which dis? penses with conscience
                    altogether. We sometimes meet with persons who tell us that they are not under
                    the law, but under grace, and therefore they are not condemned, do what they
                    will.
                Now the question is, Does the Gospel contemplate such a state? Does it propose to
                    depose or abjure conscience, or to purify and restore it to sovereign
                    control?
                I.—Let us define conscience.
                Conscience is that faculty of the soul which pronounces on the character of our
                    actions (Rom. ii. 15). This faculty is a constituent part of our nature, and is
                    common to man everywhere and at all times. All men have a conscience; whether
                    enlightened or unenlightened, active or torpid, there it is: it cannot be
                    destroyed. therefore Christianity cannot propose to dispense with it , as God in
                    no case proposes to destroy, but to sanctify, human
                    nature.
                There has been much philosophising as to the exact position of conscience in the
                    soul—whether it be a separate faculty, as the will and the understanding, or
                    whether it be a universal spiritual sense pervading and taking cognisance of all
                    the faculties, as feeling in the body. It matters little which of these theories
                    we accept, seeing that the vocation of conscience remains the same in both.
                II.—Let us glance at the office which conscience sustains to the soul.
                This office is to determine or pronounce upon the moral quality of our actions—to
                    say whether this or that is good or bad. Conscience is an independent witness
                    standing as it were between God and man; it is in man, but
                        for God, and it cannot be bribed or silenced. Some one has
                    called it “God’s Spirit in man’s soul.” Another, “God’s viceregent in the soul
                    of man;” and certainly it is the most wonderful part of man. All other of our
                    faculties can be subdued by our will; but this cannot; it stands erect, taking
                    sides against ourselves whenever we transgress its fiat: something in us bearing
                    witness against us when we offend its integrity.
                
                Now it is a question of vital importance to our spiritual life whether the Gospel
                    is intended to deliver us from this reigning power of conscience, and make us
                    independent of its verdict; or whether it is intended to purify and enlighten
                    conscience, and to endow us with power to live in obedience to its voice. Let us
                    examine a few passages on this point. First, let us see what is done with
                    conscience in regeneration. Heb. ix. 14: “How much more shall the blood of
                    Christ, who, through the eternal Spirit, offered Himself without spot to God,
                    purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?” See also Heb. x.
                    22. Second, let us see the office which conscience sustains in regenerate men. 1
                    Tim. i. 19: “Holding faith and a good conscience, which some, having put away,
                    concerning faith have made shipwreck.” Romans ix. 1: “I say the truth in Christ;
                    I lie not; my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost.” See 1 Tim.
                    iii. 9 and Acts xxiii. 1. We have also set forth the consequences of allowing
                    conscience to become defiled. 1 Tim. iv. 2: “Speaking lies in hypocrisy, having
                    their conscience seared with a hot iron.” Also Tit. i. 15.
                There are many other texts quite as much to the point, but these are abundantly
                    sufficient to show that Paul had no idea of a wild, lawless faith, which ignored
                    the tribunal of conscience, and talked of liberty while leaving its possessor
                    the bond?slave of his own lusts. The Apostles clearly show that true
                    Christianity no more dispenses with conscience than it does with the great moral
                    law by which conscience is set, and to which it is amenable. Hence Paul tells us
                    in our text that he exercised himself to have always a conscience
                    void of offence.
                III. We want to point out what is implied in having a conscience void of
                    offence.
                This implies,
                First, a “purged” conscience made clean; must be made clean before
                    it can be kept clean. The residuum of all sin settles on the conscience; and, as
                    all have sinned, there can be no clean
                    consciences by nature. There is only one way by which consciences can be
                    purified—purged from guilt and made ready for new service. Heb. ix. 14: “From
                    dead works”—from all pollution, uncleanness, sterility. Conscience is not only
                    polluted by sin, but outraged, incensed, made angry; it needs to be pacified as
                    well as purged, and this can only be done by the blood of atonement. Every
                    believer remembers the precious sense of purity and peace which spread over his
                    soul when first he realised a saving interest in the blood of Christ; how sweet
                    it was to feel that all the stains left by the sins of a past life were washed
                    out—to realise that the anger and vengeance of an aggrieved conscience were
                    appeased—that God, having accepted the Lamb as a sufficient atonement,
                    conscience accepted Him also, and was pacified! The offence and condemnation of
                    past sin is washed away, and now the conscience is void of offence, clean, and
                    ready to serve the LIVING God. There is a beautiful
                    significance in the word “living” in this connection; it seems to intimate that
                    there is a fitness, an appropriateness, between the character of the Being to be
                    served and the quality of that faculty of the soul which has specially to
                    preside over His service. It is now not only made clean, but light, quick,
                    tender, ready to detect and reject everything old, rotten, impure, unholy, and
                    to keep it out of the sanctuary of the believer’s soul, as unfit for the service
                    of the living God, who sees every thought, motive, and desire. And oh, how true
                    is conscience to its trust if only the soul would exercise itself
                        always to obey!
                The Apostle laboured to have always a conscience void of offence. This must have
                    been possible, or he could not have exercised himself to maintain it; he was too
                    good a philosopher for that. What unpardonable and wilful mistakes are made
                    about Paul’s experience! His personification of the ineffectual struggles of a
                    convicted sinner in the words, “Oh, wretched man that I am,” I have been wrested
                    from their explanatory connection and set in solitary and mocking contradiction
                    to every exposition of his experience from the
                    hour of his conversion to that of his martyrdom. Paul was either a sanctified
                    man, “more than conqueror,”—“doing all things through Christ strengthening
                    him”—counting all things but “loss and dung”—“knowing nothing amongst men save
                    Jesus Christ and Him crucified,” or he was the greatest egotist that ever lived.
                    Neither was he honest, for we have not a word about failure or defeat after he
                    once attained the liberty wherewith Christ Jesus made him free; and yet no
                    Apostle gives us so much of his personal experience as Paul. He continually
                    exhorts the churches to follow his example, to walk as he walked; and tells
                    Agrippa that he would both he and all that heard him were altogether such as he
                    was, save his bonds. He continually challenged his enemies to point out a single
                    selfish or inconsistent action, declaring that whatever he did, or wherever he
                    went, or whatever he suffered, it was all for the interests of his Redeemer’s
                    kingdom; and when his work was done, like some mighty conqueror about to seize
                    the crown of victory, he stretches forth his hand and cries, “I am now ready to
                    be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight;
                    I have finished my course, I have kept the faith.” Surely Paul had found it
                    possible to maintain a conscience void of offence! And so may we; but this
                    implies, Secondly, systematic obedience to the dictates of
                        conscience. Being made pure, light and quick, and set on the throne
                    of the soul to communicate the light and truth of God, and to witness
                    impartially whether it is obeyed or not, of course there can be but one way to
                    keep this conscience void of offence, and that is by so acting as
                    not to offend, grieve, or incense it again! You see, if the soul—nay, the whole
                    being—refuses to be in subjection to it—will not obey it—then conscience must
                    needs take offence again, because it cannot be cheated, or bribed, or silenced.
                    To be kept void of offence it must be obeyed with promptness; to
                    parley is to defile. How many a soul has dated its ruin to temporising with a
                        sug? gestion which conscience asserted
                    ought to have been put down at once!
                Thirdly, to keep a conscience void of offence requires unremitting
                        effort, exertion, “exercise,” determination; a bringing up, so to
                    speak, of all the other powers and faculties of the being; “herein do I exercise
                        myself”—the whole man, soul, mind, body—myself.
                Here is need for “exercise” indeed; this signifies no child’s play, no mere
                    effervescing emotion, expending itself in sentimental songs or idle
                    speculations. Here is “the fight of faith” THE faith of
                    the saints, which can dare, and do, and suffer anything rather than defile its
                    garments. Only those who thus fight have the Apostle’s kind of faith. Satan
                    knows this, and he waylays such souls with every temptation possible to them. He
                    tries considerations of ease, interest, honour, reputation, friends, fashion,
                    health, life! and sometimes puts all these in one scale at the same time, over
                    against a pure conscience in the other. Alas! how many for such considerations
                    “have put away a good conscience, and concerning faith have made shipwreck.”
                It is no uncommon thing to meet with people in this condition, who, “having built
                    again the things they once destroyed, have made themselves transgressors.”
                    Conscience is defiled and incensed, and demands that the evil shall be put away
                    and repented of, and the soul cast afresh on the blood of atonement for pardon
                    and healing. Instead of doing this, however, we are constantly meeting with
                    people who try to cling on to what they call faith, and who quibble and reason
                    to try to make it out that they are right; but between their sentences we can
                    hear their consciences mutter, “You know you are wrong, you know you are guilty;
                    confess, and forsake your sin.” I know a young lady, a professing Christian, who
                    was deeply convinced by the Spirit of God that the business in which she was
                    engaged was inconsistent with her profession, and also with her becoming a
                        real follower of Jesus. After much controversy she took three days to debate with conscience as to
                    whether she should give it up or not. Minister, friends, everybody but
                    conscience said, No. She yielded, and “put away a good conscience” in order to
                    keep a good business. Shortly after she married a young man with the same sort
                    of religion as her own; they rushed into imprudent and extravagant expenditure;
                    he soon failed, and now she is in seas of trouble and sorrow. Surely “Thine own
                    wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backslidings shall reprove thee.”
                IV. To keep a conscience void of offence requires the subjection of the whole
                    being to the will.
                As conscience is the reigning power of the soul, the will is the executive, and
                    in order to keep a pure conscience the will must act out its teaching. When
                    inclination lures, when the flesh incites to that which conscience condemns, the
                    will must say, No! and be firm as adamant, counting all things but dung and
                    dross. When Satan takes us up to the pinnacle and says, “All these things will I
                    give thee” if thou wilt do this or that, the will must say, No! and repel the
                    tempter. This is just the point where human nature has failed from the
                    beginning. Our first parents fell here. Their consciences were on the right
                    side, but their wills yielded to the persuasions of the enemy. This is sin. The
                    committal of the will to unlawful self?gratification. Joseph’s conscience
                    thundered the right path, and his will acted it out. Pilate’s conscience also
                    thundered the right course, but his will failed to carry it out. In one we
                    behold a hero, in the other a traitor!
                Young man, when you have got the fiat of your conscience act on it. At all
                        costs carry it out. Better be counted a fool, and die poor, than be
                    damned as a traitor to God and righteousness!
                Young woman! what says your own conscience about accepting that unconverted
                    lover? I entreat you, obey! Never mind what friends say—what inclination
                    says—what apparent interest says; they all lie if they contradict
                    God! And miserable comforters will they all
                    prove when His chastisements overtake you. Let your will be firm, though it slay
                    you. Man of business! conscience intrudes even on the arena of trade. You hear
                    its voice about this and that practice, or such and such a scheme. Does your
                    will carry out its dictates? Do you resolutely say, I will not “do this thing
                    and sin against God?” This is the test of faith. Real faith dares
                    trust God with consequences; a spurious faith must look after consequences
                    itself! It must save its life whatever becomes of a good conscience. Judge ye
                    how much it is worth!
                V. To keep a pure conscience requires great vigilance lest by surprise or
                    inattention we defile it.
                “What I say unto you, I say unto all—watch.” Our enemy is always watching to put
                    an occasion of stumbling in our way. He knows the power of surprise. He lays
                    many a snare to take us unawares; many a nicely?laid plot; many
                    carefully?adjusted circumstances to catch us by guile. Oh, what need for
                    vigilance! If by subtlety we ever get overcome, what must we do? Lie down in
                    guilt and despair—allow conscience to remain polluted and incensed? No! up and
                    confess, and forsake, and wash again.
                VI. To keep a pure conscience requires patience.
                Often necessitates our walking in an isolated path—taking a course which men
                    condemn. Men judge from outward appearance; they do not see the intricacies of
                    individual experience. The very course which they condemn may be that which
                    conscience insists on, and which must be done or suffered, or conscience and God
                    be grieved and offended.
                Patience will wait till God, by time and providence, justifies our course. Paul
                    said it was a small matter with him to be judged of man’s judgment. Why? Because
                    his conscience acquitted—justified, and God witnessed that he was right. Such a
                    soul can go on with all the world up in arms against it. This is just what the
                    martyrs did—nothing more, nothing less.
                Lastly.—A pure conscience is its own reward.
                
                No matter who condemns, if it approves, there is peace and sunshine in the soul.
                    And whatever our trials or persecutions, we can draw near to God without
                    wavering, for “If our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence towards God;
                    and whatsoever we ask we receive of Him, because we keep His commandments, and
                    do those things that are pleasing in His sight” (1 John iii. 21, 22). As a clean
                    conscience is its own reward, so an offended conscience is its own punishment.
                    Conscience frequently offended soon becomes “seared”—mark, not destroyed; quick
                    and raw enough underneath, ready to be probed and fretted by the worm that dieth
                    not, and scorched by the fire that never goes out—but seared on the surface, of
                    no use for present service; numbed, dark, useless. People with their consciences
                    in this state often tell us they do not feel condemned for dispositions and
                    practices which are evidently forbidden by the Word of God, nor for things which
                    they once would have trembled to do. Poor things, they do not see that their
                    consciences are seared. A lady once told us that early in her religious
                    experience, she would have felt very much condemned if she had gone to a
                    theatre, but now she could go there, and feel that she was sitting with Christ
                    in heavenly places at the same time! She had got such an increase of light, or
                    rather darkness, that the godless entertainment, the worldly multitude, the
                    flippant jokes, and pothouse?songs, did not strike her as inconsistent with the
                    teaching and profession of Him who said, “They are not of the world, even as I
                    am not of the world.” Truly, it is an awful thing to have a seared conscience!
                    There is but one step between that soul and everlasting death. Is there one of
                    this class here? My friend, make haste back to the foot of the Cross, confessing
                    and forsaking your sins, and get your “conscience purged again from dead works
                    to serve the living God.” For “without holiness no man shall see the Lord!”
            
            
            
                AGGRESSION.
                MARK XVI. 15. ACTS XXVI. 15-18.
                I WANT you to note that the great idea in both these texts is that of
                    determined aggression on the territory of Satan. “Go ye into all the world
                        and preach the Gospel to every creature.” What a commission!! Who has
                    ever yet grasped all that it implies? The vast obligations imposed on the people
                    of God in this command have never yet been more than half realized. Go
                        ye, not build temples or churches, and wait for them to come to you,
                    but go ye, run after them, seek them out, and preach my Gospel to
                        EVERY creature. Thrust yourselves and your message on
                    the attention of men. The commission to Paul, and through him to us, embodies
                    the same idea, “Unto whom now I send thee to open their eyes.” They
                    are indifferent, preoccupied, asleep in their sin and danger. I send thee as my
                    herald to arouse them, shake them, open their eyes, make them think, and realise
                    the verities of eternal things! We are to do this as God’s ambassadors, whether
                    men like it or not. We are not to wait for convenient seasons, but in this most
                    urgent business to be instant “out of season.” We are not to shrink
                    from pressing the truth on men’s attention for fear of giving offence. He who
                    gave the commission has foreseen and provided
                    for this result. “I will appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people, and
                    from the Gentiles unto whom now I send thee” (verse 17).
                II. Then it is implied in both these commissions that this aggression will
                    provoke opposition. Of course it will. Who ever heard of aggression on the
                    territory of an enemy without opposition according to the power possessed by
                    that enemy? Such a thing is impossible naturally, and even more so spiritually.
                    “The whole world lieth in the arms of the wicked one.” “The strong man armed
                    keepeth his goods;” and if we armed, by a stronger than he, take them, we must
                    expect opposition. Our Lord systematically taught His disciples, to expect and
                    prepare for persecution. He taught them that their principles, motives, and
                    objects, would be so incomprehensible to men of a worldly spirit, whether
                    Pharisees or worldlings, that they would inevitably persecute and oppose them.
                    Such we find was the case wherever the Gospel was introduced. Magistrates,
                    rulers, and mobs, set themselves in array against both the preachers and their
                    truths. I take it as one of the worst signs of the Christianity of this age,
                    that it provokes so little opposition, for it is as true now as it ever was,
                    that if we are not of the world, the world will hate us, and he that is born
                    after the flesh will persecute him who is born after the spirit.
                III. I want you to note that the only law laid down in the New Testament for the
                    prosecution of this aggressive warfare is the law of adaptation.
                “I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some” (1 Cor.
                    chap. ix. v. 22). “And of some have compassion, making a
                        difference; and others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire”
                    (Jude, verses 22 and 23). The Gospel message is laid down with unerring
                    accuracy, in unalterable terms. We are not at liberty to change even the order
                    of it as given from the glorified lips of our risen Lord to Paul. “To open their
                    eyes, and turn them from darkness to light,
                    from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness
                    of sins and inheritance among them that are sanctified by faith that is in me.”
                    Here is the Divine order—1st, conviction; 2nd, repentance; 3rd, forgiveness; and
                    woe be to the man who transposes this order. He makes as great a mistake as one
                    would make in putting the key into the lock upside down. He who made man laid
                    down this order, and its fits our mental and spiritual constitution. Let us take
                    care to preserve it intact. Let us keep the message itself unadulterated and the
                    order of it undisturbed; but in our modes of bringing it to bear on men, we are
                    left free as the air and sunlight.
                Adaptation, expediency, is our only law. I may convey it in any kind of language
                    so that it carries the true meaning to the mind of the hearer—words are nothing,
                    only as they convey ideas. I may send it through any kind of agent, from the
                    acute and polished intellect of a profound theologian down to the new?born babe
                    in Christ, scarcely able to read a letter in the book. Any man, however common
                    or unclean he may have been, if God hath cleansed him, may be used to open the
                    eyes of his fellow?men, and turn them from darkness to light.
                        Adaptation is the great thing we ought to consider. If one
                    method or agent fails, we should try another—God does so. How He tries by
                    various methods and strokes of providence to bring men to Himself! In how many
                    ways did He strive with you, my brother, my sister. He did not try one
                    providence, one sermon, one consideration, one call, but oh, how many, with some
                    of us, before our stubborn hearts yielded to His grace! And as He works, so He
                    calls us to work with Him. In this sense, to become all things to all men, if by
                    any means we may save some; of some making a difference, pulling them out of the
                    fire. That is, adapt ourselves and our measures to the social and spiritual
                    condition of those whom we seek to benefit. It is here, I conceive, that our
                    churches have fallen into such grievous mistakes with reference to the
                    propagation of the Gospel in our own times. We have stood to our stereotyped forms, refusing to come down from the routine
                    of our forefathers, although this routine has ceased to be attractive to the
                    people, nay, in many instances, the very thing that drives them away.
                The most thoughtful writers on education tell us that the first essential in a
                    teacher of youth is to be able to interest his pupils. True. This is equally
                    true of the people—if you would benefit and bless them, you must
                    interest them. You must clothe the truth in such garb and convey it by such
                    mediums as will arouse their attention and interest their minds. In short,
                        we must come down to them. Whatever has caused it, it is a fact, that
                    the masses of the people have come to associate ideas of stiffness, formality,
                    and uninteresting routine with our church and chapel worship, and if we are to
                    be co?workers with God for them, we must move out of our jog?trot places and
                    become all things to them in order to win them. If they will not come inside our
                    consecrated buildings we must get at them in unconsecrated ones, or out under
                    the canopy of heaven. And has not Jesus by His blood consecrated every spot of
                    earth to soul?saving purposes? If they will not listen to our college?trained
                    and polished divines, we must send them men of their own stamp, whose habits of
                    thought and modes of expression are familiar and congenial to them, and who,
                    washed and filled with the Holy Ghost, are as well adapted to preach to them as
                    were the fishermen of Galilee to the men of their generation.
                Why did not our Lord fit and call the divines of His own times to go to the
                    people? He certainly could have done so! Surely he must have had a sound and
                    philosophical reason for choosing fishermen. He acted on the principle of
                    adaptation. Instead of working a miracle to unteach and set loose the divines
                    for this work, He acted on existing natural law, as He always did when there was
                    no necessity to break it, and chose the best adapted instruments for His
                    purpose; hence He chose men from amongst the people to be workers together with
                    Himself, and sent them out into the bye?ways and hedges, the fields, the
                    market?place, the sea?shore, and the hill?side; in short, He sent them wherever the people were to be got at. Oh!
                    if the Church had steadily adhered to the tactics of our Lord, who can tell
                    whether the kingdoms of this world would not long since have been subjected to
                    His sway?
                For our part, at any rate, we cannot hesitate for a moment as to the conduct
                    demanded of us by the teachings of our Master, and of experience, as well as by
                    the exigencies of a perishing world. We would a thousand times rather err in too
                    readily utilising men and means that are manifestly suitable to the
                    accomplishment of the great end in view than in rejecting any man or any means
                    as “common” or “improper” which may aid us in the gigantic labours which a dying
                    world stands in such terrible need of.
            
            
            
                THE USES OF TRIAL.
                
                    
                        “Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord;
                            that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy.”—
                        JAMES v. 11.
                    
                
                AFFLICTION occupies a large place in the economy of salvation, for
                    though suffering is the result of sin, God takes hold of it and transmutes it
                    into one of the richest blessings to His own people. From whatever secondary
                    causes the afflictions of the righteous may arise, whether from the sins of
                    their forefathers, the cruelty of their enemies, their own mistakes, or the
                    mistakes of their friends, or the malice of Satan, it is their blessed privilege
                    to realise that the Lord permits and overrules all, and that He has a gracious
                        END in every sorrow which He allows to overtake them.
                    Happy the Christian who, though he cannot see this “end” at present, is able to
                    trust in the goodness which chastens, and cleave to the hand that smites.
                It may help us, however, to “endure chastening” if we consider two or three of
                    the gracious ends, or uses of our trials.
                I. Trial reveals us to God.
                There is a sense, doubtless, in which trial reveals us to God; makes manifest to
                    Him what is in our heart. Perhaps some one may
                    object, and say, no, no; we need nothing to make manifest to God what we are, He
                    understands us perfectly. He knows what is in man, and needs not anything to
                    tell Him. True! and yet He says of Abraham, “Now I know that thou fearest God,
                    seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me.” And to the
                    Israelites, “And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee
                    these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee and to prove thee, to know
                    what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldst keep My commandments or no.” Now
                    God knew that Abraham feared Him, and He also knew how far Israel would keep His
                    commandments, but He did not know as a matter of actual fact until
                    the fact transpired. He must have the latent principle developed in
                    action before he could know it as action. Thus Abraham by his
                    obedience to the painful command made his love manifest to God. Not that God had
                    previously any doubts of Abraham’s love, but He desired a practical
                    manifestation of it towards Himself, or to know it in action. The
                    Divine love is like all other love in this respect, it delights in practical
                    proof of love in return, nor will it be satisfied without. Remember this,
                    Christian, in thy various afflictions. The Lord is leading thee about in the
                    wilderness to prove thee, and to see (to make manifest to Himself) what is in
                    thy heart, and whether thou wilt keep His commandments or no. Remember also that
                    in nothing is love made so manifest as in willing, cheerful suffering for the
                    sake of its object. It is easy, nay, joyful to labour, but patient, cheerful
                    suffering requires a deeper love, a more perfect self?abandonment. “Greater love
                    hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.” “We glory
                    in tribulations also.”
                II. Trial also reveals us to ourselves.
                Although we do not agree with the adage that untried grace is no grace at all,
                    yet unquestionably much fancied grace has proved itself, in the hour of trial,
                    to be but as the early cloud and the morning dew. “How many who have received
                        the Word with joy and for a while have
                    believed, in time of temptation have fallen away.” How many a professing
                    Christian if he could have had predicted to him the effect of adversity upon his
                    heart and life, would have said with Hazael, “Is thy servant a dog that he
                    should do this?” And yet when the true test of character was applied he fell.
                    When he had eaten and was full then his heart rebelled, or when he was chastened
                    by the Lord he grew weary and said, “Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain,
                    and washed my hands in innocency.” There is no surer test for the Christian as
                    to the state of his heart than the way in which he receives affliction. How
                    often when all has appeared prosperous and peaceful, and the child of God has
                    been congratulating himself on spiritual growth and increased power over inward
                    corruption has some fiery trial overtaken him, when, instead of being met with
                    perfect submission and cheerful acquiescence, it has produced sudden confusion,
                    dismay, and perhaps rebellion, revealing to him that his heart was far from that
                    state of Divine conformity which he had hoped and supposed.
                Thus the Christian often suffers more from a consciousness of insubordination
                    under affliction than from the affliction itself. Dear reader, how is it with
                    you in this respect? When trials overtake you, are you able to say, “It is the
                    Lord, let Him do what seemeth Him good,” and “I know that Thou in faithfulness
                    has afflicted me.” Are you able to realise that “whom the Lord
                        loveth He chasteneth,” and that these light afflictions are
                    working a future increase of glory? If so, happy are you. This is the best of
                    all evidence to yourself that the Divine Spirit is working in you to will and to
                    do of your Father’s good pleasure. This fruit does not grow on the corrupt soil
                    of unregenerate nature; it springs only from a heart renewed by the Holy Ghost
                    and baptized into fellowship with Christ in His sufferings. But is it otherwise
                    with you? Does your heart chafe, and fret, and rebel? Are you saying, “All these
                    things are against me?” If so, this is proof that the work of grace is at a low ebb in your soul, that your faith is
                    weak, and your spiritual perceptions dim. It is high time for you to awake out
                    of sleep and cry mightily unto God for a revival of His work in your heart and
                    for a sanctified use of the affliction which has overtaken you. “If God dries up
                    the water on the lake, it is to lead you to the unfailing fountain. If He
                    blights the ground, it is to drive you to the tree of life. If He sends the
                    cross, it is to brighten the crown. Nothing is so hard as our heart; and as they
                    lay copper in aquafortis before they begin to engrave it, so the Lord usually
                    prepares us by the searching, softening discipline of affliction for making a
                    deep lasting impression upon our hearts.”
                
                    The fire our graces shall refine,
                    Till, moulded from above,
                    We bear the character Divine,
                    The stamp of perfect love.
                
                III. Trial also reveals us to the world.
                As the greatest manifestation of God to the world was by suffering, so the most
                    influential revelation of His people to the world has been by suffering. They
                    are seen to the best advantage in the furnace. The blood of martyrs has ever
                    been the seed of the Church. The patience, meekness, firmness, and happiness of
                    God’s people in circumstances of suffering, persecution, and death, have paved
                    the way for the gospel in almost all lands and all ages. A baptism of blood has
                    prepared the hard and sterile soil of humanity for the good seed of the kingdom,
                    and made it doubly fruitful. The exhibition of the meek and loving spirit of
                    Christianity under suffering has doubtless won thousands of hearts to its Divine
                    Author, and tamed and awed many a savage persecutor, besides Saul of Tarsus.
                    When men see their fellow?men enduring with patience and meekness what they know
                    would fill them with hatred, anger, and revenge, they naturally conclude that
                    there must be a different spirit in them. When they see Christians suffering the loss of all things, and cheerfully
                    resigning themselves to bonds, imprisonment, and death, they cannot help feeling
                    that they have sources of strength and springs of consolation all unknown to
                    themselves.
                Patient suffering, cheerful acquiescence in affliction and anguish, mental or
                    physical, is the most convincing proof of the Divine in man which it is possible
                    for humanity to give. “Truly this was the Son of God,” said those who stood by
                    the cross when they saw how He suffered. And how many who have been thoroughly
                    sceptical as to the professions of their converted kindred, and have most
                    bitterly persecuted them, and withstood every argument and entreaty advanced in
                    health and activity; have yielded almost without a word before the patience and
                    peace with which the billows of suffering and death have been braved, nay,
                    welcomed! Such evidence is too mighty, such proof too positive to be resisted,
                    even by persecutors and blasphemers.
                Abraham might have written a book and preached all his life long, as doubtless he
                    did, but the whole, ten times told, would not have convinced his family, his
                    contemporaries and posterity, of the depth and fervency of his love to God, as
                    did that holy calm surrender of the best beloved of his soul to the requirements
                    of God. Job might have been the upright, benevolent, righteous man he was, but
                    probably we should never have heard of him but for his wonderful submission,
                    patience, and faith, under suffering. It is this which lifts him up as an
                    example and a teacher to all succeeding generations. It was when sitting on the
                    dunghill, apparently forsaken of God and man, and suffering the direst physical
                    agony which Satan could inflict, that Job attained his greatest victory and made
                    that wonderful exhibition of trust in God which has been the comfort and
                    admiration of God’s people from that day to this.
                It was in the fiery furnace that Shadrach, Meschach and Abednego won such glory
                    to the God of Israel, that even a heathen king proclaimed His majesty and
                    dominion, and com? manded his subjects to
                    worship Him who could deliver after this manner. It was in the furnace of
                    persecution that Stephen, Peter, James, John and Paul proved the divinity of
                    their characters and the genuineness of their faith. Without suffering the world
                    could never have known the strength of their faith, the fervency of their love,
                    or the purity of their lives. Their trials made them “spectacles unto the world,
                    to angels and to men,” and won for their Master the ears and hearts of
                    thousands.
                When an apostle would present to us the mightiest achievements of faith and the
                    most wonderful exhibitions of the power of Divine grace, he refers us not so
                    much to the doings of God’s people, as to their cheerful and triumphant
                    sufferings. (Heb. xi.) Dear reader, how are your afflictions revealing you to
                    those around you? Are you adding your testimony to that of the cloud of
                    witnesses who are gone before, to the sufficiency of Divine grace to sustain and
                    comfort in the hour of sorrow and suffering? Is your patient endurance saying to
                    those who are watching you, I can do (and suffer) all things through Christ
                    which strengtheneth me?
            
            
            
                PREVAILING PRAYER.
                I FEAR there are comparatively few Christians who know what prevailing
                    prayer is, because they do not comply with the conditions on which alone it can
                    be offered. I regard these conditions as threefold:
                1st. Living and abiding union with Jesus. “If ye abide in me, and my words
                        abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto
                        you.” (John xv. 7.)
                2nd. Systematic obedience to the teaching of the word and of the Spirit.
                        “Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward
                        God. And whatsoever we ask, we receive of Him, because we keep His
                        commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in His sight.” (1
                    John iii. 21, 22.)
                3rd. Unwavering faith in the veracity and faithfulness of God. “But let him
                        ask in faith, nothing wavering; for he that wavereth is like a wave of the
                        sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he
                        shall receive anything of the Lord.” (James i. 6, 7.)
                Of course there are many other passages of similar bearing and of equal weight,
                    but I regard these three as clearly setting forth the conditions of prevailing
                    prayer, constituting, as it were, the three
                    steps of successful approach to the mercy seat. They are like three links of a
                    golden chain connecting our souls with God, and if one be missing or defective,
                    the power to prevail in prayer is lost. Does not this explain the reason why
                    there is so much ineffectual prayer in our day? Christians get hold of a
                    promise, and try to work themselves up to faith for its fulfilment, but, alas!
                    one of the conditions is wanting, one of the links is broken; their own hearts
                    condemn them; “then have they (no) confidence toward God, and whatsoever they
                    ask they receive (not) of Him, because they keep (not) His commandments, and do
                    (not) those things that are pleasing in His sight.” How can a man approach God
                    in confidence when he is living in the daily practice of something for which his
                    own heart condemns him? Impossible! As soon might Satan offer effectual prayer.
                    Before that man can truly approach to God, he must “cleanse his hands,” “purify
                    his heart,” and “put away his iniquity.”
                No matter what our creed or opinion, God has made it a law of our spiritual
                    being, that without submission and obedience there can be no confidence. Faith
                    in Jesus is God’s expedient for bringing us back to obedience, and
                    not for saving us in disobedience. And all the way through the New
                    Testament He refuses to accept any other proof of discipleship than that of
                    obedience. No less than six times in the 14th and 15th chapters of John is this
                    criterion insisted on. “Faith without works (obedience) is dead,” and therefore
                    has no power to take hold of God, or to appropriate His promises. I am satisfied
                    that this is the “missing link” in the experience of multitudes of professors;
                    and in vain do they cry “Lord, Lord, while they do not the things that He says.”
                    In vain do they try to assure their hearts before Him, while they love not in
                        deed, but only in word and in tongue. I am afraid there is much
                    antinomianism abroad, which makes Christ the minister of sin, and which is
                    always crying, “Faith! faith! only believe!” while consecration and obedience,
                    as indispensable conditions of faith, are
                    entirely lost sight of. “How can ye believe,” said our Lord to some in His day,
                    ”while ye receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh
                    from God only?” And we may say to some in our day—how can ye believe who prefer
                    self?indulgence, wealth, or worldly conformity, to Christ and his cross, and the
                    extension of his kingdom? Is it not still true that “if any man love the world,
                    the love of the Father is not in him,” and that “the friendship of the world is
                    enmity towards God”? Saving faith in the sinner, and prevailing faith in the
                    believer are alike impossible without full consecration to known duty. If any
                    one disputes this, let him try to exercise faith in any given promise or for any
                    given blessing, while he is refusing obedience to the claims of God, or
                    withholding part of the price which God requires, and he will find, whatever may
                    be his preconceived notions on the subject, that it is simply
                        impossible. Herein is the solution of the question so often asked—How
                    is it that there are so few answers to prayer? David affirmed it when he said,
                    “If I regard iniquity in my heart the Lord will not hear me.” Neither will God
                    hear and answer us, call we ever so loudly, and ever so long, if we willingly
                    consent to any known unrighteousness. How fares it with your prayers, dear
                    reader? Do you know that God hears you by the answers He vouchsafes? If not, may
                    not this be the reason for the miscarriage? God is unchanged and unchangeable,
                    the promise faileth not. “All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer,
                    believing, ye shall receive.” God must be true; and if your experience
                    contradicts the sure word of promise, you may be certain that it is your
                    experience which is at fault. Examine yourself. Repent, and do your first works.
                    He is faithful and just to forgive the sins of His people, and to cleanse them
                    from all unrighteousness. And then bring all the tithes of a whole?hearted,
                    loving, and believing service into His storehouse, and prove Him therewith, and
                    see if He will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out such a
                    blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it.
                
                    
                        Watched by the world’s malignant eye,
                        Who load us with reproach and shame;
                        As servants of the Lord Most High,
                        As zealous for His glorious name,
                        We ought in all His paths to move
                        With holy fear and humble love.
                    
                    
                        That wisdom, Lord, on us bestow,
                        From every evil to depart:
                        To stop the mouths of every foe,
                        While, upright both in life and heart,
                        The proofs of godly love we give,
                        And show them how the Christians live.
                    
                
            
        
        
        
            
                THE SALVATION ARMY.
                
                    NOTHING is more commonly set up as a plea for the neglect of such
                        living as is described in the foregoing papers than that “there are no
                        people who carry religion to such an extreme as this.”
                    Wretched as is this excuse, I thank God that, as a result of the delivery of
                        these and similar addresses, by myself, my husband, our natural and
                        spiritual children, and those others whom we have set to work from time to
                        time, God has raised up for Himself a people who are acting, in no small
                        degree, up to the light which they have received.
                    “THE SALVATION ARMY,” formerly called “THE CHRISTIAN MISSION,” is a force consisting chiefly of working
                        men and women who have been turned from lives of unbelief and open
                        wickedness to serve the living God with all their might.
                    From July, 1865, when my husband commenced the work alone in the East of
                        London, up to the present time, December, 1878, permanent Corps or bands of
                        these soul?savers have been established in some eighty large towns, and
                        districts of the metropolis.
                    Here are thousands of men and women, who have either been compelled to
                            come in from the streets and lanes to listen to a Gospel they do
                        not care to hear, or have been roused from a state of heart
                            backsliding and led to give themselves afresh to God with all the
                        ardour of first love.
                    From amongst these, up to the date just mentioned, no less than 204 persons
                        have been wholly employed in the Lord’s work, either as Ministers,
                        Missionaries, Evangelists, Scripture Readers, Colporteurs, or Bible Women,
                        while more than seventy Female Ministers have been sent forth,
                        preaching to thousands in Theatres and Music Halls as well as in the open
                        air, daily, proving their Divine call to the work by miracles and signs and
                        wonders wrought amongst the Gentiles through their instrumentality.
                    These people having, in multitudes of cases, been at one time the slaves of
                            Strong Drink, not only flee from it themselves, but teach everyone to abstain from its use, and
                        from tobacco, and finery, and Worldly Amusements.
                    Having known what it is to be in real anxiety about their own souls’
                        salvation and to be really saved from sin and fear and guilt, and shamed
                        into righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost, these ignorant and
                        unlearned men and women understand Dealing with Anxious Souls
                        as, alas! many better instructed and more highly stationed do not.
                    I fear that many of these—who have themselves rather been “dragged up by the
                        hair of their head,” as one of them expressed it, than brought up—little
                        understand The Training of Children. But of one thing I am
                        thankful to feel confident, namely, that thousands of children are being
                        brought up to devote all available time and strength to the salvation of
                        others.
                    Full, detailed information as to the system by which these slaves of sin have
                        been rescued from the tempter’s snares and made soldiers of the King of
                        kings, and reports of the conquests being daily made by this Army, may be
                        found in its magazine, “The Salvationist,” One Penny Monthly, Morgan
                        & Scott, Paternoster Buildings, E.C.; “Heathen England,” boards One
                        Shilling, cloth Two Shillings.—S. W. Partridge & Co., Paternoster
                        Row, E.C.
                
                
                    NEW UNDERTAKINGS.
                    My husband is always prepared to undertake the establishment of a Corps in
                        any town or district, however full of the vilest iniquity and the most
                        extreme ruffianism, provided suitable buildings, such as Theatres, Music
                        Halls, &c., for Sunday services and a room for week nights holding
                        not less than 200 persons, can be got on reasonable terms.
                
                
                    ALWAYS WANTED:
                    Men and Women willing to devote themselves to the salvation of souls, and
                        capable of being made good Officers of THE SALVATION
                            ARMY. No salary beyond food and clothing guaranteed.
                    CATHERINE BOOTH.
                    P.S.—Funds to assist in the raising and equipment of Corps in all parts
                        of the country and the training of young Officers, are always greatly
                        needed, and may be paid into the National Provincial Bank of England, or
                        sent to William Booth, 3, Gore Road, Victoria Park Road, London, E.
                
            
        
    
