
     ----CITATION----
        Belloc, Bessie Rayner (1829-1925). Poems. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 127 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (February 27, 1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7124
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    POEMS.
                
                BY B.R. PARKES.
                
                    LONDON:
                    JOHN CHAPMAN, 
                    142, STRAND.
                
                MDCCCLII.
            
            
            
                LONDON: PRINTED BY W. CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STREET.
            
            
            
                DEDICATION
                Dedicated TO BARBARA LEIGH SMITH.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    WARNING 1
                    DEATH THE ENCIRCLER 2
                    MYSTERIES 4
                    THE MOORS 6
                    A BALLAD OF SMUGGLING DAYS 11
                    A CAROL FOR WILLIE 15
                    CHRISTMAS COMES BUT ONCE A?YEAR 18
                    NEW?YEAR’S EVE AND NEW?YEAR’S DAY 20
                    SUMMER’S SONG 22
                    HASTINGS IN APRIL 24
                    STONELEIGH 26
                    KENILWORTH 28
                    MARSH FLOWERS 30
                    SONG 31
                    REMINISCENCES 32
                    SONG 34
                    WITH PRIMROSES 35
                    THE OLD WATER?COLOUR EXHIBITION 36
                    THE ALPS. THUSIS 37
                    CHIAVENNA ON A SEPTEMBER EVENING 38
                    THE PLAINS OF LOMBARDY 40
                    GIOTTO, DA VINCI, TITIAN 42
                    HOME TO ENGLAND 43
                    THE HIGHLANDS 44
                    THE CATHEDRAL 45
                    TWO SKETCHES FOR PICTURES 48
                    
                    THE DESERTED VILLAGE 50
                    TO AN AUTHOR WHO LOVED TRUTH MORE THAN FAME 51
                    LONDON FROM HAMPSTEAD HEATH 52
                    THE WAYFARER 56
                    THE WATCH IN HEAVEN 58
                    THE CLOUD?FACE 60
                    REST 61
                    LIFE’S RIVER 62
                    THE EVIDENCE OF THINGS UNSEEN 64
                    “LIFE IS OUR DICTIONARY.”—Emerson 66
                    MUSIC 68
                    THE EXPERIENCE OF ALL MEN 69
                    ENGLAND AND HUNGARY IN 1849 70
                    THE LAST HOME 72
                    MARY 73
                    TWO SCENES OF INFANCY 74
                    GIORGIONE AND VIOLANTE 76
                    THE MEETING OF PLATO AND HORACE IN THE ELYSIAN FIELDS 78
                    MY OLD HOUSE 81
                    EARTH’S QUESTION 84
                    THE REPLY OF THE FAIRIES 86
                    THE TEACHING OF CORNELIUS 88
                    LITTLE SARAH 89
                    THE OLD PALACE GARDEN 90
                    TO BIRMINGHAM 92
                    To * * * * * 93
                    TO E.B. 94
                
            
        
        
            
            POEMS.
            
                WARNING.
                TIME, rushing past me with the noise of wings,
                Woke up my sleeping spirit, and I wept
                At his receding pinions moving on
                Into eternity whilst I had slept.
                Vainly across the gulf would I have leapt,
                Crying, Oh bear me on thy wings to heaven,
                And place me on my God’s right hand forgiven;
                Or bear at least some Christian deed to lay
                Before the throne—a faint and feeble sign
                Of that which fills my heart. Came answer none
                Across the abysmal darkness. Time was gone.
                ’Gainst he returning come, Soul, work and pray,
                That he may take thee unto the Divine.
            
            
            
                DEATH THE ENCIRCLER.
                
                    TIME rolls, and month by month
                    The upwelling blood of Nature fills her veins,
                    And the bright wooing sun
                    From the dear earth hath won
                    A tender blush of flowers that gladden all her plains.
                    The waves come leaping in,
                    And I lie clasp’d within
                    The kind warm arms of Nature. I could die
                    In such a mood as this; my limbs, dissolv’d,
                    Should be to some new herb of loveliest shape resolv’d,
                    And I would pour my soul,
                    A cup of spirit?wine, from out its breathing bowl,
                    To help the vital force
                    Which wings the stars on their unchanging course,
                    Or sprouts among the leaves, and I could be
                    So lost in Nature as to compensate for me.
                
                
                    Thus dreams the poet, thinking,
                    Thus dreams the artist, drinking
                    Fresh draughts of beauty every fresh created day,
                    Till o’er his half?escaped spirit sweep
                    Those human memories ever folded deep
                    Within his heart: then rather would he say,
                    O friends! dear friends and true!
                    Had I, forgetting you,
                    Surrender’d up my spirit before the throne
                    
                    Of great Queen Nature, did you but require
                    My love, my service, from the quivering fire,
                    From rock, and wave, and flower, I know would start
                    The outward forms and strengths of my unwavering heart,
                    And my life spring obedient when you claim’d your own.
                
                
                    I fear not life, mine eyes are bold for seeing;
                    I fear not death nor any change of being;
                    Meek for the present, strong for the coming day,
                    I tell my soul to be, as be it may;
                    Only I fear that I, who walk along
                    In your dear love so happy and so strong,
                    Be cut from such communion, and the roll
                    Of death’s impenetrable waters surge above my soul.
                
                
                    Oh Grave! hast thou the victory over Love?
                    Love with the fearless eyes? I do not think
                    That our frail brotherhood, if moving towards that brink
                    Beneath whose unseen depths lies black oblivion,
                    Could wear the high and beautiful aspect it girdeth on
                    When it goes forth to conquer ill, and give
                    Each loving heart the assurance—“Thou shalt live.”
                
                
                    Oh Grave! hast thou the victory over Love?
                    Black shadow, creep not over sunny life,
                    Which, striving to put forth
                    Some flowers of heavenly worth,
                    Shrinks from thine image in unequal strife.
                    Oh thou, who gatherest youth,
                    Genius, and beauty to thy dark embrace,
                    Let one dear smile of pity gleam upon thy face,—
                    Seeds which we sow in God expand to flowers above.
                    Leave us, who lose so much, eternity and love.
                
            
            
            
                MYSTERIES.
                
                    WHAT art thou, and what hidest thou,
                    Thou veil of fair material sense,
                    So thin, of baffling permanence?
                    What art thou, and what hidest thou,
                    Thick curtain, viewless to my sight,
                    But shutting me from power and light?
                    Grey clouds of morning barring rosy skies,
                    Barring the Hand which made me from mine eyes.
                    Sometimes from that most glorious shore
                    Where Christ the Lord sits evermore
                    Comes a faint wind; aside one moment rolls
                    The awful curtain; on our trembling souls
                    A vision of the Eternity which is,
                    Hath been, and ever shall be, very nigh
                    To the dear dreaming earth sweeps gloriously.
                    A moment hear we symphonies of Heaven.
                    A moment see blue depths thro’ vapours riven,—
                    Then darkness steals upon us, and we seem
                    As though our hearts had fir’d at some unstable dream
                    Again the stern and soulless laws of nature drag
                    Us unrelenting, crushing those who lag;
                    We hear no spheral hymns; the subtle soul
                    Which works or sobs around us flies our coarse control;
                    The oratorio of the waves is dumb,
                    Nor from the sighing groves do any voices come.
                    The household angels who walk’d with us melt
                    Into thin air, their present love unfelt;
                    
                    And while their white wings glimmer far and faint,
                    Lo! where the prophet preach’d, men seek the sculptur’d saint.
                
                
                    Ah! we have glorious days when we seem knit
                    To some great Heart, whose loving beat is round,
                    Above, below us, and the waves reply,
                    And the winds whisper when they catch the sound.
                    We walk as gods; a power is in our eyes,
                    Constraining others; and a finer flow,
                    A deeper meaning, in our utterance lies,
                    A grander breadth of purpose on our brow.
                    Is this the Possible held up before us,
                    In the warm summer of our fitful spring,
                    When Christ’s full bounteous presence shall be o’er us,
                    And like a sun shall perfect everything?
                
                
                    And thou, and thou, great Nature, soul’d with beauty,
                    Which is unto thee as my mind to me,—
                    No dead conglomerate of dust and forces,
                    But instinct with a vital energy.
                    Science, in uttering thy relations, knows not,
                    And cannot utter of the soul within;
                    But the dear love we bear thee is a witness
                    Thou and humanity are near of kin.
                    Oh! church or chapel preacheth not the fulness
                    Wrapt in the life of Nature: she can teach
                    To watchful shepherds how great mysteries circle
                    Our little life; and ever as we reach
                    The heart of some great truth, retreating flieth
                    Her all?surrounding essence, and we find,
                    Tho’ we perchance half fancy that we seize it,
                    Impenetrable mystery lie behind.
                
            
            
            
                THE MOORS.
                
                    “COME out,” said Leonard, bursting through my door,
                    His black curls tangled like a fretting sea,—
                    “Come out, nor waste on lazy books this day,
                    Fit for the gods, and all too good for men.
                    Thou witless student, authors have two eyes,
                    As many thou! with complement of ears,
                    (Though rather long ones); pray, had Plato more?
                    Bacon could smell and taste, and finger coin
                    As saith tradition; and great Socrates
                    Possess’d five senses and his ugliness;
                    An’ if thou use thine own great store as well,
                    Thou shalt be learn’d and famous ere thou die.
                    Thou ever lookest thro’ the telescope
                    Of great dead minds, seeing the shores remote
                    Of past and future time; thine own poor nose
                    Knocking meantime ’gainst every neighbour post.
                    Did Beauty die with her Interpreters,
                    Dirg’d by the murmur of the Italian sea?
                    Did Science fly with Newton up to Heaven,
                    Leaving us here forlorn to read her past?
                    Or do they rather live a fuller life,
                    Now dropping blessing down like fruitful rain
                    On human hearts and homes? Who on the past
                    Is idly pleas’d to feed his mental frame,
                    May be indeed the pupil of great men,
                    
                    But never their companion. We have priests
                    And teachers all about us every hour—
                    Matter yet plastic from the hand of God,
                    And spirits welling up from founts divine,
                    Begging our thoughts. You give no heed to them;
                    You’re like a child, who throw your lesson by
                    To fidget with the key, which in itself
                    Is nothing, can be nothing, but a help
                    Unto your task’s right reading being learnt.”
                    The sapient Leonard stopp’d.
                
                
                    So I arose,
                    Took my round hat, and put my box of paints
                    Into a basket, with some bread and wine
                    To sustain the outer husk, and for our souls
                    A volume of Carlyle, poet?painter, one
                    Wherein he treats of Goethe, and a wee
                    Edition of Shakespeare’s 
                            songs
                            song's
                         (whose title?page
                    Bore the dear name of some old German town,
                    Where Leonard bought it, being sworn to Him
                    As I to Goethe then); and, so equipp’d,
                    We sallied forth.
                
                
                    A slowly winding road
                    Led up and up; upon the boundary wall
                    A fringe of ferns cut into delicate shapes
                    By Nature’s graving tool, and richly dyed
                    In every shade of green, grew lavishly,
                    Rejoicing, quiet things, to be alive.
                    So wound we up, till unawares we gain’d
                    The broad high table?land, and to our eyes,
                    Our dazzled, utterly astonish’d eyes,
                    Broke all that sea of heather, purple ton’d,
                    
                    A luscious carpet far as eye could see,
                    Variously shaded, and the cotton?rush
                    Here and there flecking with its snow?white plume
                    The great expanse; and by us brown game?birds
                    Went whirring in sharp fear. Ne’er in my life
                    Had I seen such a sight, and I stood dumb
                    In awful wonder. Leonard said, “God’s book
                    Lieth before thee.”
                
                
                    In a point of time
                    I seem’d to read long chapters, every word
                    Cramm’d full with meaning, and the strangest thoughts
                    Came over me; the great indwelling soul
                    Of all this beauty spake my heart within,
                    While in my veins a richer life?blood ran;
                    The chaos of my fancy open’d out
                    Into an order never known before;
                    New thoughts, new paintings, and new poems rose
                    Like dreams of a futurity, more bright
                    Than ever was my past; I thought I heard
                    The stars all singing, though I saw them not,
                    And the earth swell the chorus; their song said,
                    “Glory to God who made the Beautiful!”
                    “Glory to God!” I said, and down my cheeks
                    Tears rain’d for gladness, till I could not see
                    The heather or the sunshine. Leonard then—
                    For he was of a different nature, strong
                    And blithe as mountain colt—bid me come on
                    And try another page, and while he went
                    He sang at topmost voice, “What shall he have
                    That kills the deer? the horn, the horn to wear;”
                    Or else the “Greenwood Tree.”
                
                
                
                    And so we pass’d
                    Over the hills, unto what seem’d a brink
                    O’erlooking half a world; hill after hill
                    Around us lay, encircling a great vale
                    Of many miles’ extent; and to the right
                    An opening stretch’d away: we thither bent
                    Our steps, and gain’d a verdant pasture deep
                    In shadow of thick trees, beside the Wharf,
                    Where comfortable monks had built a church,
                    And dwellings for themselves, and pray’d and eat,
                    And drank and eat and pray’d and drank again,
                    And taught the neighbouring poor some little lore,
                    And gave them alms, and gossip’d; no place this
                    For rigid anchorite of dreams divine,
                    But rather in these blossoming Bolton woods
                    Might all the Greek and Roman poets lie
                    Out of the reach of harm on dusty shelves,
                    And prophesy—the unrighteous pagans—times
                    When Bolton Abbey should lie low, and they
                    Should, in quotations, illustrate its fall.
                    But we were not to that offence inclin’d;
                    Little of Roman or of Greek thought we,
                    But only of sweet England and her bards.
                    Down to the river thirstily we went,
                    Where yet no deeper than a child’s blue eyes
                    It sparkled over stones; the yonder side
                    A rocky bank rose steeply, hung with trees.
                    There did we lie and dream in the hot noon;
                    Leonard read Shakespeare’s songs, as was his wont
                    Whenever he was glad. I hid my face
                    Far in the thick rich grass, and poems sang,
                    Within my spirit, of the olden days,
                    And then about the ruins and the trees,
                    
                    And children paddling in the river. I
                    Seem’d verily like an Æolian harp that day;
                    I was so mov’d by Nature that I sway’d
                    Beneath her like a willow to and fro;
                    And ever as a song came in at one ear,
                    I felt constrain’d to sing it, and it went
                    Out at the other. So we lay till dusk;
                    Then, when the silver moon in beauty rose
                    Into the dark blue sky, and twinkling stars
                    Rose over Bolton, shimmering in the Wharf,
                    We back return’d. Over the heathery moors,
                    Now darkly radiant, silently we went.
                
            
            
            
                A BALLAD OF SMUGGLING DAYS.
                
                    PART I.
                    
                        “THE night is dark as pitch, Harry,
                        But there’s not a drop of rain,
                        And when the tide has risen
                        They’ll all be there again;
                    
                    
                        “By yonder little eastward bay,
                        With the crags on either hand,
                        A lonely place,—’tis there, I think,
                        They’ll run the boats to land.
                    
                    
                        “Ten of the worst and wildest lads
                        Are coming across the sea,
                        And the largest boat of the two, Harry,
                        Will be laden heavily.”
                    
                    
                        They walk’d along the shore three miles,
                        The strong and fearless men,
                        As many as they could muster,—
                        But the force was smaller then,—
                    
                    
                        Till all within the shadow stood,
                        Speaking never a word;
                        Then over the sea the first boat
                        Came flying like a bird.
                    
                
                
                
                    PART II.
                    
                        Bright on the morrow rose the sun
                        And glitter’d on the sea,
                        The rippled foam of the ebbing tide
                        Was as white as it could be;
                        The long brown fields of trackless sand
                        Betray’d no mystery.
                    
                    
                        “Let us go to the bay, Harry;
                        ’Twere well to find some token
                        Of who the smugglers were; ’tis strange
                        That not a word was spoken,
                        Nor, save by oaths and dying groans,
                        That awful silence broken.”
                    
                    
                        Out to the bay went both the men,
                        And, onward as they pass,
                        The fishing?boats were doubled in
                        A sea as smooth as glass:
                        Until one stoop’d, and said, “My God!
                        Here’s blood upon the grass.”
                    
                    
                        “Here, Harry! no, it cannot be,
                        We came not near this wood.”
                        Yet both the men paus’d silently,
                        And trembled as they stood,
                        For the round red drops were plain to see,
                        And nothing looks like blood.
                    
                    
                    
                        Over the little violet?leaves
                        They track’d the life?stains on,
                        Over the jagg’d grey shadows
                        Of the lichen?crusted stone,
                        And midst the shining silver dew,
                        That ghastly crimson shone.
                    
                    
                        Beside the brook, by swaying reeds,
                        Under the shudd’ring trees,
                        And where the trailing ivy?sprays
                        Were singing to the breeze,
                        Sprinkled about the glorious grass
                        And white anemones
                    
                    
                        They track’d it on; at last, a roof
                        Of sunlit leaves beneath,
                        Its white face nestled in the grass,
                        Lay the cold Thing of death;
                        The small birds sang in vain to it
                        With meek persuasive breath;
                    
                    
                        And all around, the lovely wood
                        Was pouring forth a hymn
                        At morning dawn: to his dead ear
                        All but God’s trump were dim,
                        The anthem and the loveliness
                        Are nothing now to him.
                    
                    
                        Quiet he lay, and Harry bent
                        And touch’d the curling hair,
                        
                        Which lay in tangles, and rais’d up
                        The face into the air,
                        And a sudden sob broke fearfully,
                        Of the strong man’s great despair.
                    
                    
                        “Thou! sadly lost, and now found thus,
                        Thou darling of my mother!
                        Whose name has been a banish’d word,
                        Still dearer than all other.”
                        Great God! how long must blood cry out?
                        The smuggler was his brother.
                    
                
            
            
            
                A CAROL FOR WILLIE.
                
                    CHRISTMAS comes, Christmas comes,
                    Blessing wheresoe’er he roams,
                    And he calls the little children
                    Cluster’d in a thousand homes.
                
                
                    Stand you still, my little children,
                    For a moment while I sing,
                    Wreath’d together in a ring,
                    With your tiny hands embracing
                    In a snowy interlacing,
                    And your rich curls dropping down,
                    Golden, black, and auburn?brown,
                    Over bluest little eyes;
                    Toss them back in sweet surprise
                    While my pretty song I sing.
                
                
                    I have apples, I have cakes,
                    Icicles, and snowy flakes,
                    Hanging on each naked bough;
                    Sugar strawberries and cherries,
                    Misletoe and holly?berries
                    Nail’d above the glorious show.
                
                
                    I have presents rich and rare,
                    Beauties which I do not spare,
                    
                    For my little children dear;
                    At my steps the casements lighten,
                    Sourest human faces brighten,
                    And the carols, music strange,
                    Float in their melodious change
                    On the night wind cold and drear.
                
                
                    Listen now, my little children,—
                    All these things I give to you,
                    And you love me, dearly love me
                    (Witness’d in your welcome true).
                    Why do I thus yearly scatter,
                    With retreating of the sun,
                    Sweetmeats, holiday, and fun?
                    There must be something much the matter
                    Where my wine?streams do not run.
                
                
                    Once I was no more than might be
                    Any season of the year;
                    No kind tapers shone to light me
                    On my way advancing here;
                    No small children rush’d to meet me,
                    Happy human smiles to greet me;
                    True, it was a while ago.
                    But I mind me it was so,
                    Then believe me, children dear.
                
                
                    Till one foggy cold December,
                    Eighteen hoary centuries past,
                    (Thereabouts as I remember,)
                    Came a voice upon the blast,
                    And a strange star in the heaven
                    One said that unto us was given
                    
                    A Saviour and a Brother kind;
                    The star upon my head shed down
                    Of golden beams this living crown,
                    The birthday?gift of Jesus Christ,
                    Whereby my glory might be known.
                
                
                    You all keep your little birthdays;
                    Keep likewise your fathers’, mothers’,
                    Little sisters’, little brothers’;
                    To commemorate this birth
                    Sings aloud the exulting earth!
                    Every age and all professions,
                    In all distance—parted nations,
                    Meet together at this time
                    In spirit, while the church?bells chime.
                    Little children, dance and play,
                    We will join; but likewise pray
                    At morning, thinking of the day
                    I have told you I remember
                    In a bleak and cold December,
                    Long ago and far away.
                    
                        
                            1848.
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHRISTMAS COMES BUT ONCE A?YEAR.
                
                    I SAID last year,
                    Old Christmas cometh with an open hand,
                    Bright holly wreath’d about his temples bland,
                    Icicles twisted in his curling hair
                    And hanging from his breast in crystals rare:
                    All men rejoice when Christmas draweth near.
                
                
                    All men rejoice! No, no, this royal guest—
                    This jolly fellow—hath a double face;
                    Ice?cold and hard as iron is his brow
                    When, wrapp’d in pitiless storms and vest of snow,
                    He hovers o’er the household of the poor
                    And strikes with clenched fist the fragile door.
                    When far away the wandering sun hath borne
                    His molten beams to drop on Capricorn,
                    There is no faggot to supply his place.
                
                
                    Low lie the embers in the darkening room,
                    The baby’s feeble hands are pinch’d with cold,
                    The old man, sightless in the gathering gloom,
                    Hath sunk into a past of memories old.
                    Over their heads the bleak December howls
                    And sleety winds about the chimneys beat,
                    While miserable rafters scarce prevent
                    The oozy drops from pattering to their feet.
                
                
                
                    Wet, cold, and dark. “How long will Christmas last?”
                    Say little children who should love it well.
                    They cannot sleep at night when that great blast
                    Moans in its fury like a funeral bell
                    Through such thin walls. Old Christmas passes by,
                    His arms fill’d up with a luxurious store;
                    But, ah! of cake, and toy, and dance, and fire,
                    Hath nothing for the children of the poor.
                
                
                    Poor tiny outcasts of the rich heir’s feast,
                    They stand with wistful eyes and hear the song
                    Of how, when Jesus was a little child,
                    His mother tended him the whole night long.
                    In the dim street the carol chanteth how
                    The three wise kings brought presents rich and rare,
                    While giftless they, within their untrimm’d walls,
                    Watch the snow falling through the twilight air,
                    And count the hours till bed—time—then lie down
                    With shivering limbs, in broken sleep, till day;
                    And how shall these believe that in the night
                    The kind Child Jesus can have pass’d that way?
                
                
                    For shame, old Christmas! when you visit here
                    And bring our little children feast and toy,
                    Tell them they shall not have one bit this year
                    Till they have fed a child who cannot buy.
                    “Good Christians all who in this town reside,”
                    For whom the season since your birth has smil’d,
                    Besides the tracts and blankets, beef and bread,
                    Give something to the Christmas of the Child.
                
                
                    
                        1849.
                    
                
            
            
            
                NEW?YEAR’S EVE AND NEW?YEAR’S DAY.
                
                    GOOD bye, Old Year!
                    And with thee take
                    Thanks for the gifts to every land
                    Thou broughtest in thy bounteous hand,
                    And all that thou hast taught to hearts thy lingering steps forsake.
                
                
                    Good bye, Old Year!
                    The Past awaiteth thee,
                    Who ruleth in her power alone
                    The kingdom of Oblivion.
                    Silent she sits in ebon chair;
                    Falling mists of dusky hair
                    Veil her dark eyes’ glorious shine,
                    Full of wise help, and truth divine.
                    Silent, unless a fitful sound,
                    As from some cavern underground,
                    Steal from her lips; the company
                    Of ancient Years that round her be,
                    Then chanting, one by one, give tongue
                    To old experience in their song.
                
                
                    Good bye, Old Year!
                    Thou goest forth alone,
                    As we shall do: thy pages gay,
                    Seasons and months who round thee play,
                    Attend thee to Earth’s farthest verge, then back! to greet thy son.
                
                
                
                    Hail, New?born Year!
                    Cradled in morning clouds
                    Golden and white. I cannot see
                    Thy face—’tis wrapp’d in mystery;
                    But Spring for thee is painting flowers,
                    And Summer decks her woven bowers;
                    Rich Autumn’s sheaves will soon be reap’d,
                    With store of fruits in sunbeams steep’d,
                    And one by one with gentle hand folds back thy sunlit shrouds.
                
                
                    Hail, New?born Year!
                    Shining and beautiful.
                    Thou wilt step forth in plenitude
                    Of youth and its rejoicing mood.
                    Last child of the half?century,
                    And time of coming victory
                    Over the spirits of night and sin,
                    Whose howlings of defeat begin:
                    Thou bringest hope, and labour bless’d
                    In visions of successful rest,
                    Bringest great thoughts, and actions wrought
                    In fire upon that forge of thought,
                    And with the soul of earnestness I think thy youths are full.
                
                
                    Hail, New?born Year!
                    My utterance is too weak
                    To tell of all I think thou bringest,
                    To echo back the song thou singest;
                    But the very winds of Heaven, for those who listen to them, speak.
                
            
            
            
                SUMMER’S SONG.
                
                    WHO calleth? I am coming, I am coming,
                    O’er the hills with a swift step, from dawn till gloaming,
                    Pouring from my broadlipp’d horn
                    Increase over grass and corn.
                    As I haste I hear discourses,
                    From the murmurous watercourses,
                    Of the purple?pinion’d rover,
                    While from fragrant fields of clover
                    Comes a drowsy dreamy hum;
                    They say, “Doth not Summer come?”
                    Yes, I’m coming, oh! I’m coming.
                
                
                    Who calleth? Bird in greenwood, deer in forest,
                    Meadow blossoms, and those small things (much the dearest)
                    Who blossom in the town,
                    And in every alley known
                    To venturous explorers among men—
                    All say, “Come, sweet Summer, quicken
                    Thy slow steps, for, oh! we sicken
                    Of the darkness and the snow;
                    We fain would bud and blow,
                    And we fain would build our nest
                    Where the green boughs shelter best,
                    
                    And we fain would go and play
                    In the meadows yond’ all day.
                    Oh sweet Summer, sweetest Summer, come again!”
                    Yes, I’m coming, oh! I’m coming.
                
                
                    Who calleth? All the great sea?waves are weary
                    Of wrestling with the roaring wind in fury,
                    And would like to go to sleep
                    On the surface of the deep,
                    Dreaming of the mermaids down below.
                    All the little streams awake;
                    Their silver threads I take,
                    With the filmy morning mist
                    By early sunbeams kiss’d,
                    And wreathe them in a veil about my brow.
                    So I walk upon the land,
                    Scattering from my hand
                    Richest fruits and flowers,
                    While the winged hours
                    Paint the sky with gold,
                    And loveliness untold
                    Of blue and rose and gray,
                    Invoking every day
                    Fresh spells of colour and fresh majesty of form.
                    Oh! little child and sire,
                    Seated by your waning fire,
                    And storm?beat wanderer on the great earth roaming,
                    Fold your glad hands in prayer because I’m coming.
                
            
            
            
                HASTINGS IN APRIL.
                
                    IN this rejoicing time, when sun and shower
                    In shining alternation rule the sky,
                    And the brown fields are shadow’d every hour
                    By cloudy masses scudding swiftly by;
                    Fields soon to smile in greenness, when the breeze
                    Leaves on the placid water tracks of light,
                    Or, hurrying, dimples all the crystal seas
                    With flecking foam and little wavelets bright,—
                
                
                    Then every flower sings out its joyous song;
                    The wood?anemones, and violets after,
                    Springing in every Sussex hedge and shaw,
                    Make all beholders glad with April laughter.
                    The primrose opens all her folded buds
                    In yellow beauty to the wooing sun;
                    Beneath, thro’ banks her lavish bounty studs,
                    The fretting streams o’er stones and branches run.
                
                
                    The celandine, and lilac lady’s smock,
                    Warning the gatherer of the cuckoo near;
                    The white oxalis, and each old grey rock,
                    Whence glossy ferns hang down, to artists dear,
                    In every graceful group; the knotted stumps
                    Embroider’d with green ivy, the bare down,
                    With windclipp’d oaks securely set in clumps,
                    Meet our glad eyes, emerging from the town.
                
                
                
                    At every step we take the cattle stare
                    With great soft eyes, which ask when summer’s coming,
                    And days of grateful heat and tranquil air,
                    Wherein their lazy worships bask till gloaming.
                    Fast run the little dogs, and snuff the earth,
                    Or chase the flying birds with vain endeavour;
                    The cat considers if to venture forth
                    And greet on sunny flags the warmer weather.
                
                
                    Round go the windmill?sails, and children swarm
                    At various games; the sick come slowly walking,
                    Releas’d by this spring day, and you and I
                    Will pace the High Street for an hour’s grave talking—
                    I mean that rais’d and sunny pavement, high
                    Above the road, and bounded by a wall
                    Which dear green trees o’erhang, quite undisturb’d,
                    Save where our meditative shadows fall,—
                
                
                    Or out into the country, to that bank
                    Of blue?bell and red orchis, you with drawing,
                    And I with Tennyson; no creature near
                    But the quiet donkey peacefully hee?hawing
                    Over the hedge. So much for Hastings’ treasures
                    Of sight or sound in April. Every time
                    Of the long year hath others, beautiful,
                    Gladdening the heart, and meet for duteous rhyme
                            .
                            
                        
                
            
            
            
                STONELEIGH.
                
                    LONG winding lanes and hedges red with bloom
                    Of sweet wild robin, and starr’d with tender white;
                    A sun down dropping gold on summer green
                    Of perfum’d woods, whose laced foliage shows,
                    In sudden glimpses, depths unfathomable
                    Of the far coolness, bower on bower of leaves,
                    Various in shade and shape; which following,
                    They’re lost in sudden darkness of thick trees,
                    Or branch far up upon the dim blue sky.
                    And here are nests of birds, whole colonies
                    Of poets singing ever; nightingales
                    As in old Grecian woods; not mournfully,
                    But in glad bursts and far resounding calls
                    Filling the air with music holiest. We
                    Stay here awhile and listen: on the faint
                    Sweet breath of the wind comes tuneful insect hum,
                    Mix’d with a rustle of the swaying leaves,
                    Bass to the birds’ clear treble—“Beautiful!”
                
                
                    Trot on again, dear pony, thro’ boss’d stems
                    Huge in their venerable age, green slopes
                    Of tall June grass, thick set with sorrel, on fire
                    With poppies, royally gemm’d with buttercups,
                    Ripe to the mower’s scythe. The grove?crown’d hills
                    Swell up on either side, divinely rais’d,
                    Stretching away with distant sunlit copes.
                
                
                
                    On—crossing “shallow rivers;” verily
                    They must be those unto whose grassy banks
                    The shepherd woo’d his darling; they flow by
                    With such a pleasant rustle over stones,
                    ’Mid moss and water?lilies, and eddies bright,
                    And deeper lucent pools, where silver fish
                    Dart ever to and fro. The lazy groups
                    Of meek?eyed cattle saunter down to drink,
                    And, standing ankle deep, look startled up
                    At our unwonted wheels. By Stoneleigh bridge
                    Are dotted cottages, with tottering babes,
                    And smoke that wreathes against the trees and sky.
                
                
                    I scarce can think, on this luxurious eve,
                    That dismal towns exist, tho’ tapering spires
                    Rise far away, and warn us such there be;
                    Towns with the thronged street and smoky air,—
                    Towns with close alleys breeding fever?plagues,—
                    Towns of sad men. Oh blessed summer sun!
                    As thou art to this landscape, which were dull
                    And bare indeed without thee, so may we
                    Be to the shadowy places round us, full
                    Of an interior radiance, shedding forth
                    A stedfast light of tenderness and truth.
                
            
            
            
                KENILWORTH.
                
                    BROAD level fields, and hedges thick with trees,
                    A calm still evening dropping fitful rain,
                    And hawthorns loaded with their perfum’d snow;
                    All Nature langorous, and yet alive
                    With humming insects and with bleating sheep;
                    A sky both grey and tender,—misty clouds
                    Floating therein, streak’d here and there with gold;
                    And golden flowers topping the tall June grass.
                    Ivy clothes all the ruins, sprouting weeds,
                    Lichen, and moss for richest tapestry;
                    While for festivity and regal pomp
                    Held in the olden time, is nothing now
                    But tune of children’s voices, and the calm
                    Quiet evening, misty on the ruins. Far
                    Over the fields are farms and gardens gay;
                    And strong magnificent oaks, beneath whose boughs
                    Twilight sits brooding ere she walks abroad.
                    A soft moist summer eve,—’tis Nature grieving
                    For the depart of Spring; not yet the sun
                    Hath dried her thoughtful tears; or else it is
                    The death of the Last Fairy, and the flowers
                    Hang down their heavy heads in grief for her.
                
                
                    I on this highest tower look far away
                    Over this lovely England; and I think
                    There is a poetry in our northern land
                    
                    Peculiar to itself: though it hath not
                    The gorgeous colouring of southern shores,
                    Peopled with hero shades and temple?crown’d,
                    Yet we too have our tale of deeds sublime,
                    And spirits haunting our green forest glades,
                    And a grave meditation, born from out
                    Endeavouring lives and quiet scenery
                    And summer evenings so divine as this.
                
            
            
            
                MARSH FLOWERS.
                
                    SPIK’D reed and golden Iris bending over
                    Low?running streams, and that small pleading flower
                    We none of us forget, with foxgloves rang’d
                    In rows of crimson bells, and many more
                    From hedge and coppice and flat marshes, make
                    My glad mind wander forth where they were born,
                    When the dim dawn awoke with summer songs,
                    And June with glory crown’d proclaim’d the morn.
                    With glory crown’d! oh month of wealth untold!
                    From the high moorland sweeps the scented breeze,
                    Gorse spreads a golden pavement under heaven;
                    No stars can pierce the woven forest?trees
                    When night again hath lit her silver lamp,—
                    Brooding above the homes of sleeping men
                    And wide?spread plains of God, who sleepeth not,
                    Till all the dykes are lustrous once again.
                
                
                    Murmur, slow streams, and sway within the wind,
                    Spik’d reed and golden Iris, while the day
                    Breaks red upon the plain, the moon grows dim,
                    And all the piled clouds are roll’d away.
                
            
            
            
                SONG.
                
                    I LOVE to lie
                    In the dreamy heat of an autumn day,
                    Where the painted insects idly play,
                    Floating about in the noontide ray;
                    Or at evening hours
                    By the gilly?flower on the old grey wall,
                    And the scented pea, and the sun?flower tall,
                    And the ivy training over them all,
                    In the time of flowers.
                
                
                    By the deep old moat where the duckweed grows,
                    And the drowsy streamlet scarcely flows,
                    Overhung with garlands of gay wild rose
                    And bryony,
                    Where mosses carpet each sloping mound,
                    And the white convolvulus twineth round
                    The cluster’d shrubs and over the ground,
                    I love to lie;
                
                
                    Where all is still, and warm, and bright,
                    Or glowing with a chasten’d light,
                    Which fades away in a moonlit night,
                    In every time
                    Ere the death of the flowers, while the wandering breeze
                    Whispers and laughs ’mid the crowned trees,
                    To the song of the birds and the hum of the bees
                    I would lie and rhyme.
                
            
            
            
                REMINISCENCES.
                
                    I SAT once more within a tangl’d wood,
                    Beside a quiet river, on whose breast
                    A world of trees look’d down admiringly
                    At their own beauty; and the sportive fish
                    Leapt up, in their unviolated home
                    Fearless of heart; ’twas on an autumn day,
                    And, save the dropping of a waterfall,
                    Or the low plashing of a distant mill,
                    Sound there was none; the moss grew thick and soft,
                    And many a flower o’ertopp’d the heavy grass
                    With luscious gifts of colour and perfume.
                    And there I used to lose myself amidst
                    The tales of old Romance, with beating heart
                    Tremble beneath the power of Merlin’s spell,
                    And follow where Sir Launcelot du Lac
                    Brav’d in the Sangreal’s quest the powers of hell.
                    Nor less my fancy peopl’d that green wood
                    With the creations of his magic pen
                    Who call’d the centuries from their silent grave,
                    And bade each graceful legend charm again;
                    I lov’d right well each high chivalric name
                    By him a second time enshrin’d in fame;
                    Dreamt of the Monarch of Linlithgow fair,
                    And wept with Constance or rejoic’d with Clare.
                
                
                    On the still water when the sun went down,
                    And the flowers nodded on their slender stems,
                    
                    And earth was hush’d, the angels spoke again,
                    And counsell’d, in their low sweet tones, to save
                    Adam, of God’s deep love the latest born,
                    And his fair consort, from the snares of hell:
                    Or Shakespeare led me where the summer fays
                    Dance thro’ the midnight hours beneath the moon.
                    Old times, dear times! no sentimental tears
                    Shall mourn your flight: tho’ we may never read,
                    With youth’s peculiar fresh and wond’ring mind,
                    Those glorious books again—from hindering thought.
                    And worldly care and worldly sorrow free—
                    Yet ever to our elder years they bring
                    A bright remembrance and a fitting charm,
                    And what we lose in childish faith we gain
                    In fond appreciating reverence;
                    While the young generations round us rise,
                    And drink, unslak’d, at our old founts of joy.
                
            
            
            
                SONG.
                CLAMBERING up the rocky bank,
                Briers and honeysuckles fling
                Greenest branches unto air
                Fragrant in the early spring:
                Streams let loose from winter’s thrall
                Sparkling thro’ the meadows play,
                And with silver voices call:
                Wherefore must I be away?
                Crocuses by sunbeams lit,
                Hypaticas of many dyes,
                Lose the lover who ador’d them,
                Singing sonnets to their eyes,—
                I, who know each little nook
                Where the early violets grow,
                I, who used to hail the snowdrops
                Softly blooming through the snow.—
                All who used to peep at me
                Now unsought, unsung must be.
                Every voice of Nature calls me,
                Here immur’d must I remain;
                Ever in my dreams I whisper,
                “When will summer come again?”
            
            
            
                WITH PRIMROSES.
                WITHIN a wood, no farther from the sea
                Than you might hear the waves dash audibly,
                These flowers grew; the high hills, closing round,
                Made of the little dell a fairy ground
                For warmth and greenness; never winter dare
                Invade the softness of its tranquil air.
                Adown the wood a lucent stream doth brawl,
                And earliest here the welcome cuckoos call;
                In the far distance white?sail’d vessels ride,
                Or tiny fleets of fishers deck the tide.
                My picture is too faint, but it may bring
                Some image to you of the scenes I sing.
            
            
            
                THE OLD WATER?COLOUR EXHIBITION.
                OH! thoughts of Genius, cloth’d in hues divine,
                And sanctifying this time?honour’d spot,—
                Oh! sacrifices on the holy shrine
                Of Arts to God, by Him rejected not;
                Most true religious teachers, ye allot
                A portion of Heaven’s blessedness to men
                Shut up in dreary town, and noisy den
                Of much unrighteousness, who seldom see
                The gracious form of Nature, save in ye.
                Nature interpreted by Love is Art,
                Which, entering in the inmost spirit, calls
                Tears from the eyes and blessings from the heart,
                And longing lingering reverence to these glorious walls.
            
            
            
                THE ALPS. THUSIS.
                OUT from the house I went when early dawn
                As yet had hardly ting’d the peaks with gold,
                And cottage?smoke in faint ascending wreaths
                Stole from the inner depth of valleys old.
                At length upon a sunny hill I sat,
                Looking at meadows cattle?strown below,
                And upwards where into the clear blue sky
                Shot out the tapering peaks of pathless snow:
                And many similes within my brain
                Stirr’d, as if Nature spoke aloud to me,
                And said, “Oh child that watcheth ever, learn
                That which I mean by my solemnity.
                Even as these high peaks above thee rear,
                So stand great souls above the ranks of men;
                No summer warmth caresses year by year
                Grand heads encircled by a glorious pain.
                But if of verdure bare, thou must not doubt
                Joys of their own to such great souls are given;
                Lonely they are; but though forlorn of men,
                They stand in the unchanging light of heaven.
                Oh child! receive their teaching; even as here,
                Below them, fir and flower are glistering bright,
                Warmer, more beautiful, the dawn descends,
                Till all the lowest vales are fill’d with light.”
                
                    
                        1850.
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHIAVENNA ON A SEPTEMBER EVENING.
                BLACK eyes, unearthly in their depth and fire,
                Gleam out from under shade of trellis’d vines,
                And faces cut more delicately than
                The forest?flowers by God. Swart brows, and shapes
                Moulded by mountain air, or early ripe
                Amidst the feather’d plains of Indian corn,
                Step (like old pictures out of golden frames)
                From sunlit arches through the glowing streets;
                And by the shrines the peasants kneel in prayer
                As in the time of Dante. Tall white towers
                Gleam on the steep hill?sides, and such sweet names
                As Giuseppe and Vincenzio, writ
                Above the cottage doors, bring vividly
                Bright fireside memories of our English home,
                And Shakespeare teaching us of what he learnt
                When his great spirit at midnight wandering went
                Far from the moonlit Avon, to discourse
                With the ghost of old Time Past, and to drink in
                The secret spirit of things in stranger lands.
                Here liv’d (more real lives than many a man)
                Those glorious lovers, patriots, soldiers, friends,
                Whose words are ever in our mouths, whose deeds
                Stand out for our example; this the land
                Where Brutus, standing over Cæsar’s body, made
                
                That great oration which is now more true
                Than ever it was then. Oh land much lov’d
                Of all our northern nations! age by age
                Thou lift’st among them thy young vigorous head,
                Queen of some new and unexcelled realm.
                Thine was the Empire of the Sword, and thine
                The Royalty of Faith, and thine the Soul
                Of Beauty through external things transfus’d;
                Now be the great new doctrines of the century thine—
                The People’s Progress and their wise self?rule.
                All eyes look on thee, all hearts yearn to thee;
                For thee are prayers put up, for thee tears shed:
                Give thou thine own best strength, for all men lose
                What thou, so dear, so honour’d, canst not gain.
                
                    
                        1850.
                    
                
            
            
            
                THE PLAINS OF LOMBARDY.
                
                    HEAVILY hang the purple grapes
                    By fair Lake Garda’s waveless side;
                    Above, in slow ethereal march,
                    Battalion’d clouds in order ride.
                    Oh Italy, dear Italy!
                    Did thy sun but light the free,
                    What earth, what sky, were so divine,
                    So full of majesty as thine?
                
                
                    Fading away to formless mist,
                    In grand long aisles thy mountains stand;
                    The flame?lit trails of broad?leav’d vine
                    Cling round their poles on either hand;
                    Or over stones of warm grey wall
                    Droopingly hang like maids forlorn;
                    A foreground rich with white church?towers,
                    And feather’d spires of Indian corn.
                
                
                    Oh Italy, dear Italy!
                    Often we dreamt of thee unknown,
                    A far?off home, a painter’s heaven,
                    A heritage the poet’s own:
                    How have thy saints more holy seem’d
                    Since we beheld the earth they trod!
                    Where Leonard work’d, and Dante dream’d,
                    And Raphael’s thoughts were sent of God.
                
                
                
                    The day is dying, midst the blue
                    A molten sun sinks slowly down;
                    The earth is black, the purple hills.
                    Like heavenly shadows earthward thrown.
                    Blind with the glory mute we stand,
                    The glorious plains now lost in light;
                    And shortly twilight’s tender veil
                    Is lifted by the silver night.
                
                
                    When we afar shall think of this,
                    How glorious will the memory be!
                    A golden dream for northern nights,—
                    A daily prayer that thou wert free,—
                    A vision of beauty cheering us
                    Who labour under paler skies.
                    May God be with thee in the day
                    When thou and all thy sons arise.
                    
                        
                            1850.
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                GIOTTO, DA VINCI, TITIAN.
                THRON’D high above these restless towns are three
                Great elder spirits, calm?brow’d and beautiful,
                As much inhabitants as any be
                Who walk the streets to?day; their hearts are full
                Of ever?blessing kindness, and I see
                Their pictur’d thoughts and smiles benignant shine
                From all the walls around with love divine,
                And their past words declare a prophecy.
                Time was when these great spirits walk’d the earth,
                And time shall be when such again be born;
                The shining constellation of their birth
                Shall open to a wider glow of morn;
                And all the pious thoughts these ancient works declare
                Be by our children sung and painted everywhere.
            
            
            
                HOME TO ENGLAND.
                
                    WE stand together on the deck,
                    Around us twilight falleth fast,
                    And the soft rain of autumn bears
                    Its welcome on the fitful blast.
                    That tender greyness of the north,
                    The late October day hath donn’d;
                    Save, over England, one pale streak
                    Of amber tells of skies beyond.
                
                
                    Glorious lands we leave behind us!
                    (Bleeding life from every pore),
                    Those great native hopes which bind us
                    Shall but make us love you more;
                    But we feel your noble memories,
                    All whose teachings we revere,
                    Your grand skies and grander artists,
                    Pale to life which waits us here.
                
                
                    Ev’n as that faint streak of amber
                    Speaks of a clear heavenly air,
                    England, prophesying nobly,
                    Bids the nations not despair;
                    The great thoughts she rears within her
                    Waft a message o’er the sea,
                    And we say, in swift approaching,
                    “All our heart is wrapt in thee.”
                
            
            
            
                THE HIGHLANDS.
                
                    HILLS that were born of ages,
                    Heaving slowly from the deep,
                    Are shaking down their tresses,
                    Silver?threaded from the steep;
                    Curling shining tresses
                    Streaming ever down the steep.
                
                
                    Hills! prophets of the future,
                    Hills! teachers of the past,
                    Like monuments to mighty gods
                    Upon the broad earth cast.
                    Rob’d in the purple heather,
                    Crown’d with the snow?white mist,
                    Kings sit they all together,
                    Vouchsafing to be kiss’d
                    By the tender sunlight
                    Only when they list.
                
                
                    The unfathom’d lakes lie meekly
                    Looking upwards to the sky,
                    And image forth the monarchs
                    As a dream or fantasy;
                    And the hill?wind runneth o’er them,
                    Singing in Æolian strains,
                    Singing of the earth’s divineness
                    To the dwellers in the plains.
                
            
            
            
                THE CATHEDRAL.
                FINE and strong
                ’T has stood for long,
                Jetting up its slender lances
                Far athwart the arched sky,
                On whose tops the sunshine glances,
                While the birds wing brightly by.
                Fine and strong,
                A sculptur’d song
                Of forest hours,
                Boughs, fruit and flowers.
                The oak, the vine, the summer rose,
                With buds and bells no herbist knows,
                Twisting round each great stone column,
                With its aspect high and solemn.
                Fine and strong,
                Thick trees among.
                Statue fretted, each stern King
                Girt about with royal ring
                On his brow, and sceptre laden
                With his royal arms engraven;
                For all time,
                A form sublime;
                Never moving,
                Grieving, loving,
                
                Ever looking calmly down
                From his niche as from a throne,
                But one calmer than his own.
                Carven niche,
                Wrought in rich
                Knotted angles interlacing,
                Holds each fast in its enchasing,
                Divided by a slender shaft.
                Many a face grotesque has laugh’d
                Ages from the pipes. A Virgin
                Stands upon the porch’s margin,
                And the Child
                Thus long has smil’d,
                Praying the weary and the poor
                To come unto his Father’s door.
                Many warriors hereabout
                Lie, some with cross’d hands devout,
                Under the blue sky, but others
                The great inner aisle?roof covers.
                Ah! within ’tis all divine,
                With soften’d shine
                From every pane
                Whose gorgeous stain
                Lies upon
                The pavement stone,
                Telling many an awful story
                Of the martyr days divine;
                While a dim torch?lighted glory
                Streams from every pictur’d shrine;
                And the anthem slowly rolls
                Over the assembled souls,
                With a free
                Full melody.
                
                God Almighty fram’d this church
                In the artist’s mind I think;
                Beauty’s fountains none may search,
                Save who religiously will drink.
                This for the Spirit
                To inherit
                Built he humbly,
                Ay, and dumbly.
                We can but say some man once thought
                In this wise, nought else is known,
                And with long endeavour wrought
                His thoughts divinely into stone.
            
            
            
                TWO SKETCHES FOR PICTURES.
                
                    THE sultry sun
                    Burn’d hotter in December than the skies
                    Of our far land in June; within a bower,
                    Where all the lucent leaves were fill’d with light,
                    And shed it greenly round, a lady mus’d,
                    While the lac’d shadows quiver’d on her face,
                    As skimming clouds on earth, or thoughts in hearts
                    Which drink their influence in. Down to the ground
                    Swept her long hair, stiller than scrolls of stone
                    So broadly curv’d her thoughtful brow, I said,
                    “This is the model we have waited for,
                    By poets sought unseen; still slow to take
                    Her sceptre in her hand; Fate’s prisoner.
                    This is the Spirit of Freedom, calm and fair,
                    Which many lands desire. She bides her time.
                    Within her awful eyes such sorrow dwells
                    As shakes my heart with fear; and yet I know
                    When she arises not a throb or pang
                    Will usher in her steps. She bides her time.
                    When the far thunder sinks below the sea
                    She will walk forth to govern; noiseless flowers
                    Will spring around her feet. Till then she hears,
                    With the stern patience only gods can feel,
                    The groans which minute Time,—‘Eternity,’
                    (I read her thoughts,) ‘Eternity is mine.’”
                
                
                
                    
                        NIGHT loosen’d all the blackness of her hair,
                        Which fell about her in an ample cloud
                        Dropp’d with no jewels, veiling her blue eyes
                        In ebon fringes, and a sighing sound
                        Stole from her closed lips, as in unrest
                        She sway’d with slowest motion to and fro;
                        Then sat serene, and seem’d to search within
                        The abysses of her soul and memory vast,
                        And thoughts unknown to men; and wept her hours
                        (Her lovely starlit hours, choice gifts) defil’d
                        By evil, cruel thoughts, and bloodier deeds.
                    
                    
                        “Time was, when from my cooling urn
                        I scatter’d dews, and with my delicate hands
                        Clos’d up the flowers, that sages lit their lamps,
                        And ponder’d heavenly secrets, keeping fast.
                        Dark vapours hover now about my brow,
                        And bad things seek their shelter. I am weak,
                        And tremble, powerless to inspire a prayer.
                        Where art thou gone, my brother?” Thro’ the dim earth
                        Sounded the cry of Night, and heavily
                        Fell the large tears from her mist?blinded eyes.
                        Now rang the silver bells of Dawn; sweet smells
                        Breath’d from the wakening flowers; a streak of light
                        Was mirror’d in the sea; and Night arose,
                        Gathering her robe, retreating towards the west,
                        Till in its farthest depths her lofty form
                        Was lost, and all her path refulgent shone
                        With jewels, and the Day, advancing, shook
                        Perfume and music from his golden curls.
                    
                
            
            
            
                THE DESERTED VILLAGE.
                
                    BIRDS will pipe another spring
                    Songs we shall not hear,
                    Ancient Sabbath?bell will ring
                    Vainly for our ear.
                
                
                    Never more with willing feet
                    To its calling shall we meet,
                    Never more on summer’s day
                    All together sing and pray.
                
                
                    On our hearths will fires burn
                    To which we shall not return
                    Homeward when the nights grow cold,
                    As we did in days of old.
                
                
                    Here we leave our cradle’s corner,
                    Here likewise we leave a grave,
                    Within which, a tir’d sojourner,
                    One of us a rest will crave.
                
                
                    Unforgotten, unforgetting,
                    Footsteps faltering and slow,
                    Uncheck’d tears our eyelids wetting,
                    To another home we go.
                
                
                    Hoping on, and ever hoping,
                    Fill’d with solemn trust alway;
                    With all evil bravely coping,
                    Move we forward—God our stay.
                
            
            
            
                TO AN AUTHOR WHO LOVED TRUTH MORE THAN FAME.
                NO word of pity, if the storm should beat,
                Need any voice bestow which calls you dear;
                You will not quail beneath the foolish heat,
                Nor mourn anathemas you do not fear.
                Truth is, your strong and loyal heart will say,
                Of all her martyrs the sufficing friend,
                And, when the lamp of love has pal’d away,
                Will without fail her own great glory lend.
                Oh voices rais’d in passionate protest once,
                Brave spirits from whose pains our freedoms spring,
                Who dar’d your birthright of delights renounce,
                And, finding God, feel rich in everything,—
                How long shall we your noble names revere,
                And write your actions where our sons may see,
                Your ancient utterance in our hearts ensphere,
                And, when your steps are follow’d, turn and flee?
            
            
            
                LONDON FROM HAMPSTEAD HEATH.
                
                    PEACE on the hush’d earth fell at eventide,
                    As dew from heaven upon the thirsty grass;
                    No sound unmusical broke on the ear,
                    The fields all tranquil, and the waters calm.
                    Each drowsy flower hung down its gentle head,
                    The murmur of each insect died away,
                    As, floating down, it sank with folded wing,
                    Weary with play and happiness, to sleep.
                    No vapour o’er the populous city hung,
                    Spread out in grandeur on the horizon’s verge;
                    But dome and pinnacle and pillar tall,
                    And all the royal works of royal men,
                    Lay carv’d in miniature before my eyes;
                    And graceful gardens rearing amidst spires</
                    Rich burnish’d hues of autumn, and proud piles
                    Of charity (the gift of timorous death,
                    Hoping perchance to cancel evil deeds),
                    And halls of learning consecrate for long,
                    And giant fabrics for each social craft,
                    The so?call’d crown of these luxurious times:
                    And there were mighty sepulchres to men
                    Unhonour’d in their lives; and tombs of kings,
                    And ancient gateways into busy haunts,
                    Full of the modern spirit of loss and gain,
                    All in one vast confusion intermix’d.
                
                
                
                    A noble city and a nation’s pride,
                    Set in a lovely frame of sloping hills,
                    And girdled by a river, where the sun
                    Quiver’d and danc’d, as glows a ring of fire
                    The radiance died away, and Night walk’d forth,
                    Darkness and Sleep with her, her children twain,
                    And brooded o’er the town; yet many eyes
                    Watch’d weary doubtless, and slept not till dawn.
                    Then to the distant height whereon I stood
                    Rose a sad sound, which, filling all the air
                    (This to my fancy, not my waking sense),
                    Struck fear into my heart, as of one who sees
                    Dimly the black edge of an awful gulf,
                    And guesses at the unknown depth below.
                    Musing, I clos’d my eyes, and visions rose
                    In long array before them—of times past,
                    And times to come; and pictures of true life
                    Even at the moment painting stirr’d my tears.
                    Oh God! this hour, thy gift, how rich it is
                    In all we love of heroism, how black
                    In all we hate of sin!
                
                
                    In one abode,
                    Dark from the clouded air, remote from heaven,
                    Or aught that nature made, were two that spake
                    In whisper mournful, and with clasping hands.
                    They were not lovely nor of high repute,
                    Gifted in intellect, nor mild of mood;
                    Two rougher spirits scarcely might be found
                    In all the city, but a spell was on
                    Their darken’d natures, and work’d strong within,
                    And brought from out the abyss of evil days
                    A touch of holier feeling undecay’d.
                
                
                
                    It was night;
                    Small sign of beauty or of wealth was there,
                    Save one poor primrose dull’d and dried with smoke,
                    And one poor human bud, than all more sweet,
                    Which lay on a little couch; its eyes were clos’d,
                    But the long lashes quiver’d restlessly,
                    And from the small pale lips a moaning cry
                    Broke, as of pain. Father and mother there
                    Sat in their desolation all alone.
                    This was the first born and the only one,
                    For whom they often hush’d their wicked words,
                    That he might learn no ill; they pray’d for him
                    When reckless of themselves, and hop’d the lad
                    Might find some better teaching in a school
                    Than they had found in gaols; but now, no hope,—
                    The fiat had gone forth, “The child must die;”
                    And wherefore? kill’d by very want and care.
                    It never play’d by marge of river clear,
                    It nothing knew of natural sounds or scents,
                    Nor thought of things divine; it only knew
                    A coarse humanity, a Godless world
                    Of streets and alleys, an avenging law:
                    So, one of many children, thus it died.
                    Father and mother mourn’d it all alone,
                    And weeping stood beside the little grave,
                    While cold eyes look’d on them with curious stare,
                    And then pass’d on; for not in churchyard green,
                    Quiet and holy, in some nest alone,
                    Was this grave made; no sound of village bells
                    Lull’d him to sleep; but where the rattling wheels
                    And loud shrill voices broke their darling’s rest
                    Throughout the day, and all the dismal night,
                    While yet he linger’d on the dreary earth,
                    
                    There, in a corner, with no stone to mark,
                    Rail’d from the common street with open bars,
                    They laid their boy, and back return’d alone.
                
                
                    Oh London! great among the nations, great
                    In thought, in wealth, and greater being free;
                    Who dwellest under thine own magistrates,
                    And say’st “My express’d opinion awes the world”—
                    Oh mother city! oft thy freedom seems
                    One vast corruption of the eternal ties
                    Which bind men to each other.
                
            
            
            
                THE WAYFARER.
                
                    WITH a sweet murmur dropping waters play,
                    Breaking, the stillness of this summer’s day,
                    And all things beautiful and light and fair
                    Rejoice, half sleeping, in the noontide air,
                    Or lie, dream?revelling, through luxurious hours,
                    Children and insects, cattle, birds, and flowers.
                    Oft in my childhood did I lie and think,
                    As these do now, upon this river brink;,
                    And watch’d the oziers swaying to and fro,
                    Or oak?trees mirror’d in the stream below;
                    And many a nook, branch?bower’d, here I knew,
                    Whose unsunn’d water never caught the blue
                    Of distant heaven in summer; only green
                    Of million lucent leaves and boughs between.
                    Thence gazing out with happy dazzled eyes
                    Over that bounteous land where ever lies
                    A future beautiful to striving men,
                    The Land of Hope yclept, I deem’d it then
                    Begemm’d with flowers, and rich in mossy dales
                    Soft unto waysore feet, with open vales
                    Of greenest pasture sloping to the sun,
                    Where sparkling streams and placid rivers run.
                    O’er the blue hills the rolling white?ridg’d clouds
                    Wrapp’d peaks and fir?woods in their fleecy shrouds;
                    And mountains rose in far recession, far,
                    Where dwellings fit for kings and prophets are.
                
                
                
                    Yet in those mountains many a deep abyss
                    Yawns to engulf the traveller, serpents hiss,
                    And in the twilight thickets many a danger
                    Of man and nature lurks to greet the stranger.
                    When all these terrors strike his trembling heart,
                    Alone who enter’d, to alone depart,
                    Shall he walk feebly in the appointed track,
                    Falter, or, worse, with timid steps turn back?
                    There many a dark valley must he pass,
                    Eying with strained sight the tangled grass;
                    And oftentimes the dreary clouds will pour
                    Unceasingly, and heavy thunder roar.
                    No succour lies in love or kindred blood,—
                    They cannot save him, even if they would.
                
                
                    Oh! yet above him is a glorious sky;
                    Around the joyful helps of nature lie;
                    Beside him ever Faith and Hope and Love;
                    Within, his thousand vigorous pulses move;
                    Beyond him, farther than his eyes discern,
                    Much to be conquer’d, everything to learn.
                
                
                    Oh heart, be brave and tender; eye, be true,
                    Of vision keen to pierce all danger through;
                    Feet, bear your master manfully along;
                    Be his whole spirit teachable and strong,
                    And joyful too, as standing in the light
                    Of heav’nly hope; for God’s sun shineth bright,
                    To show all good men their right road, their prayer
                    Gives light in darkness when the days are drear.
                    Earth! grant some cheering love, such love is due
                    God help the helpful, and uphold the true.
                
            
            
            
                THE WATCH IN HEAVEN.
                
                    WHEN trembling angels stand aloof,
                    Watching the fight with folded wings,
                    Forbid or succour or reproof,
                    And every hasting second brings
                    News of the battle fought below.
                    Where Satan dares his human foe,
                    God! leave us not alone.
                
                
                    When morning dawns and daylight breaks,
                    Mournfully, into golden flakes;
                    When aching hearts and heavy eyes
                    To meet the coming day arise,
                    And wondering grope, as in a dream,
                    Midst things that are and things that seem;
                    Finding that in our bitterest needs
                    Our usual Faiths were broken reeds,
                    >God! hear us from thy throne.
                
                
                    That grief there is when every light
                    Seems deep engulfed in blackest night;
                    No hope, no peace, no comfort left,
                    And Faith of its own cross bereft,
                    Some know, all may: what rescue then?
                    How shall the weary rise again?
                    A power descends on striving men,
                    
                        Helping us that we live.
                    
                
                
                
                    More strong belief, a deeper hope,
                    More noble aims, a wider scope
                    Of love and thoughtfulness, to heal
                    All nearer hurts our spirits feel,
                    We, Father, ask, who grieve and sigh
                    As if no Christ were ever nigh,
                    Who compass’d every grief that we
                    Have known, though sharp our agony.
                    And so, by wrestling, may at length
                    Our very weakness teach us strength.
                    All?Mighty! hear and give.
                
            
            
            
                THE CLOUD?FACE.
                
                    PAINTED on a little cloud,
                    Opposite the sunset sky,
                    Far above the high?pil’d crowd
                    Sailing slowly softly by,
                    I saw a face, its tender rose
                    Fram’d in braids of golden hair;
                    A beauty underiv’d of earth
                    Was pictur’d and suggested there.
                
                
                    Oh beautiful beyond my thought!
                    Oh beautiful beyond my dream!
                    Half fading in the tremulous nought,
                    Half merging in the golden gleam;
                    Spiritual as the blue, blue sky,
                    And rich as any western ray,
                    Most like some woman of the past,
                    Whose memory knoweth no decay,—
                
                
                    Yet humanly expression’d, full
                    Of all that Nature teacheth, power,
                    And grace, and love, and tender joy,
                    Unconscious as of any flower.
                    Was it some heavenly minister?
                    Or memory of mine own, more fair?
                    The golden braids were lost in stars,
                    The cloud?face melted into air.
                
            
            
            
                REST.
                
                    DEEP heart and earnest eyes
                    Seeking for rest,
                    Finding a weight that lies
                    Cold on thy breast,
                    Musing on nearest ties
                    Mournfully riven,
                    In thy despair arise,
                    Turn thou to Heaven.
                
                
                    Humanity, gifted
                    With patience and love,
                    Thereby should be lifted
                    Earth’s sorrow above;
                    Should read with believing
                    The words of the bond;
                    While dull hearts are grieving,
                    Shouldst thou see beyond.
                
                
                    Strong will and eager mind
                    Striving to mould
                    Deeds to remain behind
                    When thou art cold;
                    Choose thou the better part
                    Written in story,
                    Live in man’s grateful heart,
                    And for God’s glory.
                
            
            
            
                LIFE’S RIVER.
                
                    ON the still water of our childish days
                    The noonday blue and midnight heaven look down,
                    Painting themselves, while every drooping flower
                    Or lovely human thing which haunts its bank
                    Lives in the mirror with a fairer life.
                    Perchance some holy and love?gleaming eyes
                    Gaze in our stream, or music?voiced prayer
                    Ripples the water and floats up to God;
                    But comes a blustering wind, do earthquakes split
                    The trembling globe, does winter’s thralling ice
                    Hem in our little path,—and all the peace
                    Of this our life is gone, and we go forth
                    With troublous murmur to encounter man.
                    Nay, less than this, the petty trivial cares,
                    The pebbles flung by hand of idle boys,
                    The fall of leaves upon our waters, and
                    The noiseless drop of an unceasing rain,
                    Such little worthless trifles have the power
                    To mar our glorious mirror; no more stars
                    Lose themselves, gliding thro’ the dark twin depths;
                    And he who seeks to find within our breast
                    Aught of tranquillity or loveliness,
                    Finds fragments of a thousand jumbled things,
                    Circle on circle, and the roll confus’d
                    Of unreflective wave succeeding wave,
                    
                    Grief restless and complaining, and past joy,
                    Sadder than sorrow, and a broken tale
                    Of our life’s picture; many days must pass
                    Ere the chaf’d waters gain their wonted calm,
                    And then—the leaves have fallen, and the wind
                    Has kill’d the flowers; another time of year
                    Has laid our love in the grave, and gather’d fogs
                    Obscure the glory of the midnight stars.
                
                
                    What then, sad spirit? leaving field and glade,
                    And thy sweet progress between blossoming banks,
                    There is no less a glorious destiny
                    For thy vex’d waters; stately ships shall ride
                    In triumph on thy bosom, populous towns
                    Murmur beside thee, noble work be thine,
                    Till thou at last shalt lose thyself within
                    The infinite ocean, and find infinite peace.
                
            
            
            
                THE EVIDENCE OF THINGS UNSEEN.
                
                    WE walk in mysteries howsoe’er we tread,
                    And none less awful that we see them not,
                    Or that our solemn musings o’er our dead
                    In life’s tumultuous whirl are soon forgot.
                    All common things we take as if our due,
                    We see no riddle in the earth or sky,
                    We watch all beauty year by year renew,
                    And then with casual speech walk coldly by.
                    The miracle of never?dying force,
                    That revelation of a present God,
                    The torrent rushing down its Alpine course,
                    The tiny grass?blade piercing thro’ the sod,
                    We talk about, but do not feel; the sun
                    Rains gold on all the hills, and starry flowers
                    Look up in gladness; the young birds are flown,
                    And soft sweet evenings mark the length’ning hours.
                    And then, perhaps, a child is born, weak thing
                    Created for eternity, a soul
                    At whose advent the heavenly angels sing,
                    Whom Faith and Hope and Love would fain control;
                    But we,—upon its face we do not see
                    The spirit?traces, nor within its cry
                    Hear marvellous whispers of much misery,
                    Or peace, as may be, it shall labour by.
                
                
                
                    Men die, we bury them; ’tis so much dust,
                    Muscular, nervous tissue, Heavens! what not?
                    “He was a moral man, and God is just.”
                    And so we leave the corpse alone—to rot.
                    Moral? Perhaps; yet he in former years,
                    While yet a man, did sin, or leave undone
                    That which he should have done, and then the tears
                    Down his pale cheeks repentantly would run.
                    And he had inward struggles, and he still,
                    Tho’ rising bravely after every fall,
                    Fought hardest battles with an evil will
                    And by the midnight stars for help would call,
                    Importuning his God. The poor soul lov’d,
                    And left what he did love, and question’d sore,
                    The mysteries of the world, and ever prov’d
                    The truth in those wise words of one of yore,
                    Who knew that he did nothing know. This man
                    In truth was something more than flesh and blood;
                    Not to be lightly spoken of; a plan
                    Among the many of eternal good;
                    Cunningly wrought, and in him was the breath
                    Of life; but what is that? It came at birth:
                    From whence? and how? Was exorcis’d by Death;
                    Departing where? We know not. Pray, thou earth,
                    And think on all these things, and dwell in awe
                    Of holiness upon thee; neither walk
                    Regardless of divinity and law
                    Writ in thy conscience. In thy daily talk
                    Mingle sometimes these themes—all is not plain,
                    And amidst holy oracles we live;
                    Shall their dim messages be all in vain,
                    Or wilt thou into thought and action them receive?
                
            
            
            
                “LIFE IS OUR DICTIONARY.”—EMERSON.
                DEEM not thy labours or thy sufferings hard;
                The weary traveller makes a tuneless bard.
                Wouldst thou to raise and comfort earth aspire,
                Learn thou her language first, and tune thy lyre
                To such sweet music of familiar chords
                As may give life and clearness to thy words.
                How shalt thou breathe a charm o’er weeping eyes,
                Who never desolately groan’d and wept?
                How shalt thou tell of that deep peace which lies
                In faith, whose restless spirit never slept?
                How shalt thou dry those tears forlornly shed,
                Whose eyes, unlesson’d, never watch’d their dead?
                How speak of meeting to the lonely?hearted,
                Who never from thine own belov’d hast parted?
                How sing sweet ditties to enchant the child,
                When fair young eyes have never on thee smil’d?
                Or teach Christ Jesus’ loving doctrines, when
                Thou art thyself unlov’d, unsought, by men?
                How that dispense which thou hast not receiv’d?
                How give to others life, who hast not liv’d?
                Think not an empty form of words to borrow,—
                All know by instinct who has felt their sorrow;
                In vain thine art,—the mourner’s cry would be,
                “Thou’rt ignorant, poet, of what aileth me.”
                
                We counsel seek from judgment taught by years,
                But trust our heart?griefs to the wise by tears.
                He tortur’d most will most search out the pain,
                A tyrant’s victim breaks the nation’s chain.
                View then thy grieving as a thing of worth,
                If thou thereby canst meet a grieving earth;
                Ponder on tombs till thou hast learnt how much
                Of life’s best treasure is encas’d in such;
                Hold up to men the form of the Divine,
                And bid its radiance on their tear?drops shine;
                Singing O Poet, “Once I wept with ye;
                That hour is past; now, overcome with me.”
            
            
            
                MUSIC.
                SWEET melody amidst the moving spheres
                Breaks forth, a solemn and entrancing sound,
                A harmony whereof the earth’s green hills
                Give but the faintest echo; yet is there
                A music everywhere, and concert sweet!
                All birds which sing amidst the forest deep
                Till the flowers listen with unfolded bells;
                All winds that murmur over summer grass,
                Or curl the waves upon the pebbly shore;
                Chiefly all earnest human voices rais’d
                In charity and for the cause of truth,
                Mingle together in one sacred chord,
                And float, a grateful incense, up to God.
            
            
            
                THE EXPERIENCE OF ALL MEN.
                MINE eyes are grown too dim with tears to gaze
                Into the future with that eager eye
                Which, in the fulness of my young amaze
                At this fair earth and various harmony,
                I bent on all things, hoping to descry
                A parallel in spirit; but I found
                Such grief and desolation all around,
                And the air fill’d with such a mournful cry
                Of human tones, that I shook off my dream,
                And comfortless arose. And then God spake—
                
                    Have I not given thee work wherein shall be
                    A life’s joy and abiding?place for thee?
                    Time to thine eyes a fairy vision brake,
                    Time does but perfect every noble aim.
                
            
            
            
                ENGLAND AND HUNGARY IN 1849.
                
                    OH cruel England! standing coldly by,
                    While groans of human creatures rend the sky.
                    The mother’s darling and the sister’s pride,
                    And many a maid’s betroth’d one, side by side,
                    Send up the stifled sob and heartsick moan
                    Which break the peace of God’s eternal throne.
                
                
                    Low?thoughted England! since you could not feel
                    How dear to noble souls their country’s weal,
                    Consider’d only in the fair aspect
                    Of rights which ask and which command respect;
                    How the soul needs her own peculiar bread,
                    And stricken honour bows the sturdiest head.
                    Were all material good to Hungary left,
                    And only this of her desires bereft,
                    Were only honour lost and mourn’d in vain,
                    Oh Hampden’s England! you might feel that stain.
                
                
                    But not alone her patriot or sage
                    Weeps as he pores upon the sullied page
                    Which tells how Hungary to the heart was riven,
                    And the lost Pleiad shone no more in heaven.
                    O cursed prisons! festering where you stand
                    With that black misery which defiles a land!
                    
                    Lo, far and wide, paternal homes deplore
                    The gay young feet which now return no more.
                    When households gather round at break of day,
                    And lips too sad to talk are fain to pray,
                    The mother, gazing in a mute despair,
                    Turns, sick and shuddering, from each empty chair.
                
                
                    Oh England! slow to speak the indignant word;
                    Oh England! sheathing an ungenerous sword;
                    Deaf to the voices you have call’d divine,
                    From each grey tomb you consecrate a shrine,
                    Which say, “Before you dare your homage pay,
                    Do as we had done, had we liv’d to?day,
                    Nor make us mourn who bend on earth our pitying eyes,
                    Death binds our hands whose love for freedom never dies.”
                
            
            
            
                THE LAST HOME.
                
                    WHERE shall ye lay me? not in foreign climes,
                    Where stranger winds would sadly waft the unaccustom’d chimes;
                    Where my weary spirit would in pain a lonely vigil keep,—
                    Oh! in that distant land, I pray, lay me not to sleep.
                
                
                    Where shall ye lay me? not where mermaids sigh,
                    ’Mid the roughly chafing billows, so dolefully;
                    And, longing for the summer days, o’er shipwreck’d sailors weep,—
                    Within the waves of the deep dark sea lay me not to sleep.
                
                
                    Where shall ye lay me? not on mountain brow,
                    Where the white snow lies, and the dark firs grow;
                    I do not love the precipice and chasm’s yawning deep,—
                    Upon the frowning mountain, then, lay me not to sleep.
                
                
                    Where shall ye lay me? not ’mid haunts of men,
                    Where crime and poverty peep out from every crowded den,
                    Where loud the ceaseless bells would clang, Death’s harvest?ears to
                        reap,—
                    Oh! in the city’s busy range lay me not to sleep.
                
                
                    Where shall ye lay me? far far away,
                    Where freshly in the early spring the dancing leaflets play.
                    Tall poplars by my grave long watch shall keep;
                    There, by those I lov’d in life, lay me to sleep.
                
            
            
            
                MARY.
                
                    WAVES which discourse, in a melodious whisper,
                    Mutual knowledge with the marshall’d clouds,—
                    Murmur of June, which riseth up with Hesper,
                    When the wing’d squadrons hover round in crowds,—
                
                
                    Colours which change and melt at every station
                    Won by the sun within a glowing sky,
                    Whose lawful order points a fine relation
                    Linking the spheres of light and harmony,—
                
                
                    Shadows which flit and fade on every pasture,
                    Like to the flight of passing souls above,—
                    Say, “Griev’d hearts, lay down the cherish’d creature,
                    Let the grass quiver o’er our buried love;”—
                
                
                    All these are angels, offering no solution,
                    Yet to my sickening mind they speak of peace;
                    Laying calm wings about our fierce emotion,
                    Softly and lovingly they whisper “Cease.”
                
                
                    Here on this hill?top lay her; she was lovely,
                    Gentle, of knowledge wishful, brave to hold
                    All sad fears silently; the leaves shall tremble
                    And the birds sing above her quiet mould.
                
                
                    As she lov’d Nature, so be Nature round her,
                    So may she best sleep, so we best attain
                    To some composure, knowing Death ne’er bound her,
                    And ere those trees lie low we meet again.
                
            
            
            
                TWO SCENES OF INFANCY.
                
                    QUIETLY sleeping on its little couch
                    The cherish’d infant lay; its curly hair
                    Twin’d lovingly about the tranquil brow,
                    And droop’d caressing o’er its eyelids fair,
                    As if to guard from harm some soft blue tinge
                    Of those sweet eyes within their glossy fringe.
                
                
                    Its small white limbs beneath the snowy folds,
                    Models of infant beauty, strength and grace,
                    Repos’d: a childish smile of love and glee
                    Rested upon the yet untainted face:
                    Its tiny hands enclos’d a scented flower,
                    Cull’d in its evening sports at twilight hour.
                
                
                    A year pass’d by; and at the eventide
                    A little child lay quietly,—and slept.
                    Its innocent face was dew’d with tears as if
                    Some loving eye had lately o’er it wept
                    In agony of grief; yet why were tears
                    Shed for the pure in heart, the young in years?
                
                
                
                    It is so quiet; when we saw it last
                    It smil’d, as though some airy sprite had brought
                    A vision of gay fairy?land, and woven
                    The golden tissue with its infant thought;
                    And the little heart beat softly as it press’d
                    A fragrant blossom to its snowy breast.
                
                
                    Mother!—in former times the first?born son
                    Was vow’d unto the Lord, and shalt thou now
                    Murmur because Jehovah claims his own,
                    And sets his seal upon thy darling’s brow?
                    Shall thy devoted heart be found more cold
                    Than Samuel’s mother in the days of old?
                
                
                    Sever from that dear head one curly lock,
                    And treasure it with care; in after years,
                    When gazing on it, think the others wave
                    O’er eyes that gaze on Christ undimm’d by tears.
                    Some truth, some warning made the trial fit:
                    He gave, he took away. Do thou submit.
                
            
            
            
                GIORGIONE AND VIOLANTE.
                
                    I WAS a painter; if I lov’d
                    Her glorious face too much,
                    It was that thought had carv’d its lines,—
                    I worshipp’d it as such:
                    Hour by hour I gaz’d on her,
                    And trembled at her touch.
                
                
                    The earnest fire of her deep eyes
                    Burnt all her thoughts in me,
                    Each smile that trembled round her mouth
                    Struck me inwardly:
                    Her voice went shivering through my heart
                    Like a spheral harmony.
                
                
                    Thus soul and gesture blended were,
                    (Such Truth is truest Art);
                    Her soul was as a shrine, wherein
                    My hope was set apart;
                    And every thread of her golden hair
                    Was twisted about my heart.
                
                
                    And oftentimes I could not speak,
                    Because my reverence fill’d me so
                    That when I strove her pause to break
                    The words came falteringly and slow;
                    It seem’d as though my thought met hers,
                    And the double current would not flow.
                
                
                
                    So she to me was sanctified,
                    A symbol full of meanings holy,
                    The dove sat brooding by her side
                    With eyes unstain’d by melancholy;
                    Her face was fill’d with a woman’s pride,
                    And my spirit bow’d before her wholly.
                
                
                    Oh! fear sometimes possessing me
                    Lest I were left and she were taken,
                    “How could I paint again,” I said,
                    “For eyes which would no more awaken?”
                    Great God!—Thou hast Eternity
                    For every love by Time unshaken.
                
            
            
            
                THE MEETING OF PLATO AND HORACE IN THE ELYSIAN FIELDS.
                
                    AMONG the crowd, one, with a gayer face
                    Than most, came swaggering; the Sabine Bard,
                    The Roman Priest of Song, with grape?leaves crown’d,
                    And tendrils of green ivy intermix’d.
                    “I’ faith,” quoth he, in his sweet easy voice,
                    And tender’d Plato sundry vellum leaves,
                    Whereon were writ some lines, unforc’d and few
                    In liquid fire indited, which flash’d up
                    Like eastern jewels, or the dawning beam
                    Shed by the sun on dew?besprinkled vines,
                    In clusters hanging on Falernian hills,—
                    “I’ faith,” quoth he, “these summer songs shall be
                    Torches enkindled on the sea of Time,
                    No waves shall whelm them, and no breezes kill,
                    Or deep night quench their lustre. They shall float
                    And glitter midst the surges, dropping fire.
                    Read these, old Plato; I warrant they will chafe
                    Thy dull blood to a quick and dancing flow;
                    Thou hadst no odes like these in thy life’s day!
                    ‘Too many poets!’ When humanity
                    Shall lie i’ the sun and dream, and weary cares
                    Cease to weigh down the fainting hearts of men;
                    When Pelion shall on Ossa be upheav’d,
                    
                    And men or Titans climb their steeps to heaven;
                    When Time shall fold his wings, impartial Death
                    Cut down the beggar’s boy and spare the king’s;
                    Then from thy pillow banish songs like mine.
                    Meantime I sing the glories of the grape,
                    The midnight revel and the morning chace,
                    Preach patience to the poor, and teach the rich
                    How peace can dwell upon a Sabine hill.
                    ‘Too many poets,’ Plato! Monarchs love
                    Such wit as mine to speak their victories;
                    Young maidens love to listen to my lyre
                    (Jove’s benison on their sweet eyes!), and boys
                    Sing o’er in treble tones my martial strains.
                    There is much honesty in me, old sage,
                    Much sober thought amidst my jollity,
                    Much maxim wise by rattling tongue enforc’d;
                    Did I not ceaseless warn of life’s brief span,
                    The approach of night, the unerring stroke of Death,
                    To rich and poor alike, harsh summoner?”
                
                
                    “Of Death,” said Plato, “yea, to bid men drink,
                    And waste the night in tumult; to besmear
                    The stately Roman face with purple wine,
                    And all the long bright hours of summer days
                    By glittering fountains stretch their lazy length
                    Beneath green canopies, jesting to maids
                    With water?pitchers on their graceful heads.
                    A worthy citizen of mine wert thou!
                    A guide in our Republic, verily!”
                    The Sabine Poet stood,—and on his brow
                    A serious shade stole quietly, while thus
                    He answer gave the Athenian: “For mine age
                    I was scarce worse than other men; they lov’d—
                    
                    Those royst’ring Romans of th’ Augustan age—
                    To quaff the bowl and sing of ladies’ smiles;
                    But in this was I nobler—I have
                        wrought
                    Rich gems of imagery, legends of the past,
                    Replete with glorious music,—and with tears.
                    I soften and refine; my name shall last
                    Long in the loving hearts of men, a niche
                    Kings should be proud, most proud, their form should fill;
                    And for the imperishable good I did,
                    Mine evil be forgotten by mankind.”
                
            
            
            
                MY OLD HOUSE.
                
                    I LIV’D in an old house, you ne’er saw one older,
                    The wind whistled loud when the winter set in;
                    But I don’t see why whistling need make the place colder,
                    Nor why in not stopping cracks there should be sin.
                    Ah! poor little thing, dear little thing,—
                    I’ve griev’d like a child since I heard that bell ring.
                
                
                    Well, Sir, my old house had two rooms on a floor;
                    With one window, pray why should I pay to have more?
                    And as to the water between the bricks welling,
                    Folks may talk,but I’ll never do things for their
                        telling!
                    Why, yes, the bad air in those two rooms, I own,
                    Was enough, I was told, to knock any man down;
                    But Lord, Sir! I’ve liv’d and am now forty?six,
                    And the saw says you’ll scarce teach an old dog new tricks.
                    I dirty? Indeed, Sir, you ’re quite wrong I know;
                    None cleaner in Hastings; and if folks say so,
                    ’Tis because we’re like cats, Sir, and can’t abide water,
                    All our family, Sir, and wife’s brother, Tim Carter.
                    Ah! poor little thing, dear little thing,—
                    How Tim did take on when he heard that bell ring!
                
                
                    I had one little daughter, Sir, fresh as a daisy,
                    She made our old house joyful tho’ it was crazy;
                    
                    My darling! a bit of red tipp’d her soft cheek,
                    She could just run to school on her wee toddling feet.
                    Then came the hot season, no breath of air stirr’d,
                    The roil of the sea was the only sound heard,
                    And down on the beach it was worse than elsewhere,
                    The Devil of Fever seem’d riding the air.
                    Ah! poor little thing, dear little thing,—
                    I dreamt his long thin fingers made that bell ring
                
                
                    I do not know why, Sir, indeed I can’t tell,
                    Why the young ones about us did not die as well;
                    ’Tis nonsense to talk about houses, say I,
                    I like my old house, tho’ they call it a sty.
                    So the fever came on, and it touch’d here and there,
                    In the strangest chance way that you ever did hear;
                    They did say the deaths might be summ’d with bad drains,—
                    If you think I think that, you’re a fool for your pains;
                    But my poor little thing, my dear little thing,—
                    I scarce know what I think since I heard that bell ring!
                
                
                    So the fever came on, Sir; my wife, stricken down,
                    (As knowing a soul, Sir, as lives in the town,—
                    None of your newfangled cranks about her),
                    Will never be well in this world, Sir, I fear;
                    And poor little Polly, Sir, all the long day
                    Lay tossing in agony, moaning away;
                    Her bright hair was matted with fever, and dull,
                    It lay on my arm, Sir, who prided each curl;
                    Towards night, Sir, her pretty blue eyes became dim,
                    But her little parch’d lips still kept muttering a hymn
                    
                    She had learnt at the school, or some queer notion bred
                    Of the hot fever poison would run in her head.
                    Ah! poor little thing, dear little thing,—
                    She died like one mad, and I heard the bell ring.
                
                
                    Indeed, Sir, tho’ she was my darling and pride,
                    I was thankful at heart when my poor Polly died.
                    We buried her, Sir, safe at rest from her pain;—
                    And I, Sir?—Went back to my Old House again!
                
            
            
            
                EARTH’S QUESTION.
                
                    “TO lead a life divine?”
                    This is the question which, with upward strife,
                    Earth to herself proposes, asking ever,
                    “How shall I lead this life?”
                
                
                    And in her infancy
                    From east and west according answer came,
                    Poet and priest the doctrine taught and bless’d,
                    “Divinity is Fame.”
                
                
                    In a more polish’d age,
                    “Poor toilsome fools, fair women, fairer wine,
                    Purple, fine linen, pictures, statues, gold,
                    Beauty is most divine.”
                
                
                    Long?bearded sages then
                    With still more scorn their own solution gave,—
                    “Thought is the only good to be desir’d,
                    Leave matter to the slave.”
                
                
                    God gave a helping word,
                    But Earth was blind, and would misread the sign,
                    Saying, “It means deny, fast, scourge, and pray,—
                    The ascetic is divine.”
                
                
                
                    And now we, year by year,
                    Do painfully spell out our golden rule,
                    In woe for its neglect; the wisest men,
                    The little child at school,
                
                
                    Learning that wisdom, art,
                    Denying vow, world’s honour, are but slaves to love,
                    Whose law encircles us with a command,
                    Ev’n as its pleadings move.
                
                
                    We are not free to choose,
                    But ever find our portions strictly meted
                    When we look purely for them, and a sign
                    Of blessing if completed:
                
                
                    Set in a narrow groove,
                    In our obedience alone made free
                    With freedom worth the purchase, and enjoin’d
                    To work it silently:
                
                
                    Which following
                    In meek surrender,—“Not my will but Thine”—
                    Is, in its aspect, fruit, and consciousness,
                    Indeed a Life Divine.
                
            
            
            
                THE REPLY OF THE FAIRIES.
                
                    WHERE do we hide when the year is old,
                    When the days are short and the nights are cold?
                    Where?
                    When the flowers have laid them down to die,
                    And the winds rush past with a hollow sigh,
                    And witches and fiends on their broomsticks ride,
                    Where do we delicate fairies hide?
                    Where?
                
                
                    Some of us borrow the white mouse skin,
                    (Our gossamer dresses are far too thin),
                    And get up a ball in the palace of ice,
                    With a hop and a skip we are there in a trice;
                    And we don’t go home from these midnight balls
                    Till the sun lights up our diamond halls,
                    We don’t go home till morning.
                    The queer old elves of the Northern land
                    Welcome our beautiful fairy band,
                    Praise our eyes and our curling hair,
                    Our nimble steps and our music rare,
                    Our golden crowns and the gems we wear,
                    And all our rich adorning.
                
                
                    Sometimes we fly to the noonday isles,
                    Where summer for ever unfading smiles,
                    
                    And crumple the tropical flowers for beds,
                    Where fairies nestle their small tir’d heads;
                    But when the stars of the South shine bright,
                    We chase the firefly thro’ the night;
                    When the tigers growl and the lions roar
                    We fly over their heads and laugh the more,
                    And pinch their ears and their tails for spite,—
                    These are our games on a tropical night.
                
                
                    Sometimes we visit the children of earth,
                    And take up our stand at the social hearth;
                    We hover and sing by the couch of pain,
                    Till the frighten’d dreamer smiles again;
                    We polish the lash of a deep?blue eye,
                    And hush the troublesome baby’s cry,
                    And make mushrooms grow on our verdant rings,
                    Are not we fairies good little things?
                
                
                    As the dormouse curl’d in its darken’d grave,
                    As the mermen and maids in the ice?bound cave,
                    As the poor scarlet?breast when it longs for a crumb,
                    As the naked woods when the birds are dumb,
                    As the torrent penn’d up in its glittering sheath,
                    We welcome the sight of the first green leaf.
                
            
            
            
                THE TEACHING OF CORNELlUS.
                WHO holds us heart to heart it mattereth not,
                If Thou, who holdest all within thy hand,
                Wilt say, “Well done!” upon our outward lot
                Thy blessing oft is burnt with fiery brand.
                If we, thus humbly reading, clasp it close,
                Accepting every law which lies therein,
                Thou (who hast covenanted) wilt unloose
                Our hearts from longing and our souls from sin.
                The love abash’d, the shuddering dread, the fail
                Of hopeful courage, unheroic fear,
                All that we cannot conquer, being frail,
                God of the Faithful! help thou us to bear.
                Alone, O tender Christ! we cannot be,
                When every street we pass is mark’d by thee,
                And glances born of thy great Spirit shine
                From fellow?faces with a light divine.
                Oh, look’d we clearly on the sharp ascent
                So many elder pilgrim?feet have trod,
                Seeing the End, we should not dare to faint,
                Nor speak of loneliness—alone with God!
                
                    Die Ludwig Kirche, Münich.
                
            
            
            
                LITTLE SARAH.
                
                    YE who though unseen are near,
                    Guard her from all harm,
                    Watch her well, encompass her
                    With every potent charm;
                    Bend above her slumbers,
                    Kiss her waking eye,
                    Soothe with your sweet numbers
                    Each feeble infant cry.
                
                
                    Away from every danger
                    Besetting baby feet
                    Turn her little footsteps far,
                    Guardian angels sweet:
                    Ever on her quiet lot
                    Your watchful gazes keep;
                    Shadow her and shelter her,
                    Waking or asleep.
                
            
            
            
                THE OLD PALACE GARDEN.
                WE dwelt in an old palace near to Rome;
                It was decay’d from its magnificence,
                But not less beautiful than when the sun
                Shone on the freshness of its marble pride.
                Those fair Italian gardens of old time!
                Sloping in many terraces adown
                A gentle hill unto the southern beam;
                Such was our father’s. Many fountains leap’d
                With murmuring music in the soften’d light,
                Or, hush’d to quietness by age, crept forth
                Lazily from the overflowing brim
                Of each carv’d basin, and, slow trickling down,
                Deepen’d the gracious hue of turfy lawns.
                There in profusion glow’d such gorgeous flowers
                As thou of northern birth hast never seen—
                The paler children of thy English home
                Exulting in Italian warmth and light:
                Burning red roses, and the snowy heath,
                The lofty silver rod, the asphodel,
                ’Midst stately verdant walls of closest trim,
                Wherein our ancestors took such delight;
                Hawthorn and myrtle hedges, and thick wreaths
                Of honeysuckle flaunting in the breeze;
                
                Wild brier and ivy, and the golden fringe
                Of gorse, o’erhanging many a craggy bank
                Of the Campagna, we transplanted there;
                Such passionate flowers, daughters of Italy,
                Where everything is beautiful and strong.
                Then in those gardens were rich gems of art,
                Nymphs, Fawns, and Dryads carv’d in living stone,
                Instinct with grace, who peopled solemn groves
                With genius, tho’ the master?hand were cold.
                From the steep terraces we look’d abroad
                On Rome and all her towers, the far expanse
                Of verdant loneliness around her spread,
                And the blue mountains melting in the sky.
            
            
            
                TO BIRMINGHAM.
                DEAR smoky Birmingham, since long ago
                I left your native streets, my heart and hope
                Have been with those dense crowds which daily flow
                Over their pavements, finding ample scope
                For meditation and for thought?born plan
                Of active life within the destinies
                Of these my fellow?townsmen. Every man
                Inherits a great memory, how was won,
                Hardly, the first of many victories
                Over Feudality; and a command
                Insep’rably goes with it hand in hand,
                That, as the father strove, should strive the son.
                Therefore, brave Town, say to thy best ones, “Rise,
                Leav’ning the masses with your master energies.”
                May every effort as the spring?dew fall
                On a prepared soil, and, like the ore
                On which you spend your labour, may there spring
                From out your social depths a noble power
                To cope with and work out each worthy thing.
            
            
            
                TO *****.
                I WAS a child when first I read your books,
                And lov’d you dearly, so far as I could see
                Your obvious meanings, your more subtle depths
                Being then (as still, perhaps,) a mystery.
                I had no awe of you, so much does love,
                In simple daring, all shy fears transcend;
                And when they told me, “You shall travel south,”
                I chiefly thought, “In Florence dwells my friend!”
                In those first days I seldom heard your name,
                You seem’d in my strange fancy all my own,
                Or else as if you were some saint in Heaven
                Whose image took my bookcase for a throne.
                As time went on, your words flew far and wide,
                I heard them quoted, critically scann’d
                With grave intentness, learnt, half mournfully,
                That you were a great Poet in the land,
                So far, so far from me, who lov’d you so,
                And never might one human blessing claim;
                Yet oh! how I rejoic’d that you were great,
                And all my heart exulted in your fame;
                A woman’s fame, and yours! I use no words
                Of any careful beauty, being plain
                As earnestness, and quiet as that Truth
                Which shrinks from any flattering speech with pain.
                Indeed, I should not dare—but that this love,
                Long nurs’d, demands expression, and alone
                Speaks by love’s dear strength—to approach near you
                In words so weak and poor beside your own.
            
            
            
                To E.B.
                At New York.
                
                    I SAW you seated in your lonely room,
                    Of human friends forlorn, of spirits full,
                    Who gave you comfort in your solitude,
                    And spoke to you in accents beautiful.
                    Hearing your voice, unknown, my spirit leapt
                    (Which, knowing, I have learnt to call so dear),
                    Fond memory of that first hour have I kept,
                    Tho’ scantly its result recorded here;
                    But in my heart such thoughts to it belong,
                    As hath, of its little fount, a river deep and strong.
                
                
                    And now to those far shores, I say, God speed,
                    Where I have never been, but often now
                    That anxious heart will of your path take heed,
                    And daily pray success may crown your brow,
                    Shedding its glory on your quiet face,
                    Which needs that baptism, dear friend, no less
                    That you are strong, upheld in no embrace,
                    And, deeply natur’d, if unbless’d could bless.
                
                
                    By years of loving hope at length fulfill’d
                    In our true friendship, by a common aim,
                    By weariness subdu’d and doubtings still’d,
                    By joint allegiance to a slander’d name;
                    By that eternity towards which we speed,
                    By glorious faiths we would incarnate here,
                    By ties which nor of space nor time take heed,
                    I charge you, going hence, to hold me dear.
                
            
        
    
