
     ----CITATION----
        Cross, Victoria (1868-1952). The Woman Who Didn't. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 153 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (15-March-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7197
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE WOMAN WHO DIDN'T 
                
                BY VICTORIA CROSSE
                
                    LONDON: 
                    JOHN LANE, VIGO ST
                    BOSTON: 
                    ROBERTS BROS., 
                
                1895
                
                
                    Edinburgh:
                    T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to Her Majesty
                
            
        
        
            
            THE WOMAN WHO DIDN'T
            
                CHAPTER I
                ‘BUT why not pay them? We may just as well now as when we reach
                    the ship.’
                The words came in a clear, cultivated woman's voice through the foggy duskiness
                    of an Egyptian night, from the farther end of the boat, which swayed slightly
                    from side to side on the smoothly heaving water.
                It was an Aden boat loaded with passengers impatient to return to their ship. At
                    least presumably they were impatient, but it was simply their refusal to pay the
                    clamouring African boatmen their legitimate fee that kept us all waiting there,
                    rocking in the unsteady wooden shell, with the semicircle of lights on the shore rising and falling before us through the
                    hot sulphurous mist. The boatmen deferentially but firmly refused to loose the
                    boat from the stage till each passenger had paid the due eightpence for his
                    fare. The passengers clamoured and yelled, and swore that damned swine as they
                    were, they should be paid when they reached the ship, and not before.
                This sort of thing had been going on for half an hour while I sat smoking in the
                    stern, watching the Scorpion in the jewelled sky above sinking slowly to the
                    pointed rocks, and listening idly to the storm of oaths that was showered on the
                    impassive blacks for daring to ask for their pay. I had already given my fare
                    when I first stepped into the boat, so that the controversy did not concern me
                    beyond my feeling bound to interfere when the man sitting next me, the British
                    missionary, sprang to his feet with an oath that cannot be written, and raised
                    his walking-stick to strike one of the boatmen
                    in the face. I had just caught the heavy stick and forced him down again on to
                    our cross bench when those clear tones came down to me.
                They produced a distinct sensation of pleasure, and I threw a keen, scrutinising
                    glance up the boat. In the thick yellow air, rendered all the more dazzling to
                    the eyes by the broken, flaring light of the boatmen's torches, I saw sitting
                    erect in the bows a long figure and the pale outlines of a face. The form was
                    muffled in a dark voluminous cloak, and a hood was drawn over the head.
                ‘I should pay now; if you mean to at all.’
                The voice was certainly a fascinating one, and the last phrase had a supercilious
                    scepticism in it that amused me.
                I knew, as well as the boatmen did, the British passengers' honourable fashion of
                    getting conveyed to their ship under promise to pay, and then huddling away upon
                    it, leaving the boatmen to demand their money of
                    the empty air, and evidently the possessor of the voice was familiar with that
                    fashion too.
                A burst of resentful ejaculation followed the suggestion.
                ‘What! pay them?’
                ‘And now, after their insolence?’
                ‘Give in to these damned scoundrels!’
                ‘Well,’ the cold voice broke in again, ‘I am going to pay mine, and I strongly
                    advise you to, or we may lose our ship. What can it matter to you whether you
                    pay now or afterwards?’
                Again that delightful satire in the cutting tone.
                There was a general murmur and muttering amongst the passengers, but the truth of
                    the remark on losing the ship went home, and the murmur was followed by a
                    simultaneous getting up of several forms, as everybody began fumbling sulkily
                    for the necessary pence, grumbling and swearing as they did so.
                
                ‘Have you any change?’—‘Oh, thanks,’—‘Pay you on board,’—‘Filthy pigs,’—and other
                    broken remarks—were exchanged during another ten minutes, until finally the
                    money was collected and each passenger had put his fare into the black extended
                    hand above us.
                ‘Now, have you all the fares?’ asked the voice gently.
                ‘Yes, madam; thanks to you, madam; thank you, madam,’ answered the glib tones of
                    the native.
                ‘Then push off.’
                The master-boatman gave the command and the natives on the stage pushed with a
                    will. Our boat shot out rocking on the smooth bay.
                ‘Good-night, madam,’ called the boatman respectfully to the figure in the
                    bows.
                ‘Good-night,’ it answered, and I was struck now by the note of sweetness in the
                    voice.
                Chorus of passengers:—
                
                ‘How could you answer those insolent rascals?’
                ‘They were not the least insolent, and they were perfectly justified in demanding
                    their money.’
                The voice said no more, and the figure relapsed into the shadows at the end of
                    the boat. I could see nothing more of it. All the other passengers were engaged
                    in commiserating themselves and each other for having been obliged to pay their
                    fare. I sat back and smoked in silence, watching the lights and great outline of
                    our ship grow larger as we slid over the water towards it. When the boat ground
                    against the lowest step of the ladder I kept my seat and let the other
                    passengers scramble past me. Twice I was respectfully requested to disembark by
                    the boatmen, as my seat was nearest of all to the ladder, and twice I politely
                    declined, and sat on waiting.
                The boat completely emptied itself, and then at
                    last the figure in the bows rose and came easily down the unsteady craft towards
                    me. The long coat reached to the feet and fell in black rigid lines, but the
                    form was a wonderfully symmetrical one, and I got up with alacrity and looked
                    eagerly round the hood into the face as the figure approached me.
                ‘Can I assist you?’ and I held out my hand.
                The boat was jarring up and down against the ship's ladder uncertainly. A couple
                    of Egyptians held it with their hands to the lowest rung waiting for us.
                Two curiously light, brilliant eyes met mine from the pale smooth face enclosed
                    by the hood.
                ‘Oh, thanks, very much,’ she said in a pleasant, half-derisive way, and a hand
                    came on mine and held it firmly, and we both stepped from the rocking seat on to
                    the steps. They were a broad flight, with a rope on either side, and I and my companion swung ourselves slowly up
                    together.
                My whole idea now was to say something which would elicit some information about
                    her, but the tall form beside me in its impenetrable clothing seemed to exercise
                    a confusing influence over me. My thoughts mixed themselves inextricably, and at
                    last, when we were near the top of the ladder, I remarked simply:
                ‘I don't think I've seen you before?’
                ‘No, I have been ill with fever since we started. I have not emerged from my
                    cabin.’
                ‘Are you near the centre of the ship?’
                ‘Yes, close to the centre on the left side.’
                ‘Left side? That's the men's side,’ I remarked carelessly.
                ‘Oh, they don't divide us very distinctly in these French boats!’
                Confound it! Here we were at the head of the ladder.
                
                ‘Shall we stroll round the deck?’ I said. ‘It's really a lovely night. That fog
                    is only just on the surface of the water.’
                She turned to me with a gleaming smile; the light from the deck saloon windows
                    fell full on the face, across the scintillating eyes and brilliant well-turned
                    mouth.
                ‘Yes, I've no objection,’ came the careless answer, and we stepped over the loose
                    coils of rope, passed through the opening in the chain, and stood side by side
                    on the deck. I noticed my companion's shoulder was somewhat beneath my own.
                I wished it had been rough weather, or our ship out of gear and rolling, but we
                    were lying motionless in the bay, and there was no possible excuse for offering
                    one's arm.
                ‘Would you object to my smoking?’ I said, as we turned towards the first-class
                    passengers' end, where, under the stretched awning, in shadowy obscurity, stood
                    deck-chairs of all descriptions, some vacant
                    and some occupied.
                My companion laughed. It was rather an affected, effeminate sort of laugh, and it
                    irritated me. Perhaps it meant she smoked herself.
                I got out my cigar-case and handed it first towards her.
                ‘Thanks, but I don't smoke.’
                That was more encouraging. I lighted up, and we strolled on, my eyes keenly
                    observant of her under dropped lids.
                A wonderful carriage and walk, easy and self-reliant almost, but not quite to the
                    point of arrogance, and, I felt sure, a lovely and seductive form under that
                    hideous shapeless garment.
                ‘When do we leave to-night, do you know?’ she asked after a few minutes.
                ‘Midnight, I fancy,’ I answered.
                ‘Well, it 's close to that now, I should think.
                    I am going down, so that I can have a chance of settling to sleep before we
                    start.’
                ‘Oh, don't go down this minute,’ I urged. ‘I don't suppose we shall really set
                    off much before morning.’
                ‘Why did you just tell me midnight then?’ she said amusedly, and then added: ‘I
                    believe you've had too many pegs!’
                I laughed. All the time we had been walking towards the companion-stair, and I
                    did not want to see her disappear down it.
                ‘Look at the beauty of the night!’ I persisted. ‘Surely it's a pity to waste it
                    by going below decks!’
                ‘Yes, it is beautiful,’ she said, stopping with her hand on the stair-rail and
                    casting a long glance round the encircling purples of sky and sea; ‘so beautiful
                    that you should contemplate it in silence and alone.—Good-night.’
                ‘Oh, let me see you to your cabin,’ I said hastily.
                
                ‘And what about the beauty of the night? Surely it's a pity to waste it by coming
                    below decks!’
                ‘Orpheus descended even into Hades on a memorable occasion,’ I returned. She was
                    already half-way down the stairs, and I followed her to the lower passage.
                At the foot of the steps she stopped and turned.
                ‘Do you know my name?’ she asked, with a faint intonation of surprise.
                ‘No,’ I said promptly; ‘I wish I did!’
                ‘Well, but what made you say that then?’
                ‘Say what?’ I asked.
                ‘Why, about Orpheus!’
                ‘I don't know what you mean,’ I said in astonishment. ‘You're not called Orpheus
                    surely!’ and we both laughed.
                ‘No, but ... Eurydice ... I thought perhaps you knew and ...’
                ‘Oh no,’ I said hastily; ‘I had no idea! What a
                    curious coincidence! Is it really Eurydice? It's an awfully pretty name!’
                ‘Not with the surname,’ she answered, laughing. ‘Eurydice Williamson! Isn't it a
                    frightful combination!’
                ‘I don't think so,’ I maintained unblushingly, though the seven syllables in
                    conjunction positively set my teeth on edge.
                Down here there was a good deal of confusion, and evident signs of approaching
                    departure; luggage that had not yet been transferred to its owner's cabin or the
                    hold stood blocking up the fairly broad space between the lines of cabins on
                    either side of the vessel; the rafters were close over our heads; behind us
                    thudded the engine, sending down streams of oil-scent and hot air through the
                    thick atmosphere.
                There was no light but that which fell through the dim, smoke-stained glass of a
                    lamp swung to a cross-beam over our head. It enabled us just to see where to put our feet and avoid the piles
                    of luggage, odd oil-cans, and loose coils of rope lying in all directions.
                No one seemed down here. The passengers had for the most part disappeared into
                    their cabins. The crew seemed wholly occupied on deck. Over our heads tramped
                    perpetual hurried footsteps, chains were dragged, orders shouted, and goods
                    pushed along the boards; but down here all was an obscure, heated, smoke-filled
                    dusk.
                ‘That is my cabin, I think,’ my companion said, and I saw a white painted door a
                    little ahead of us with No. 36 printed on it.
                Another minute and she would have passed through it, not to reappear for another
                    twelve hours. I felt quite annoyed at the thought.
                I glanced at the covered head and neck and shoulders beside me in a succession of
                    rapid nervous glances, and each time rejected an importunate idea that kept
                    suggesting itself again and again with
                    maddening persistency.
                Then we were standing at the white-painted door, and she stretched her hand to
                    the handle.
                ‘Good-night,’ she said, and she turned the pale contour of her face and its
                    shining eyes upon me.
                I felt dizzy with sudden excitement; the face whirled before my eyes in the dingy
                    air.
                I bent over her on a mischievous, jesting impulse, pinned one shoulder against
                    the cabin door, and leant my lips down to hers. She drew her head back violently
                    to avoid them, and I heard the sharp blow of the skull on the woodwork.
                The next second both her hands struck my chest, and pushed me backwards with
                    desperate force.
                She opened the door behind her, and the next instant its white boards were
                    between us.
                
                I looked at them savagely for a second, then I collected myself and turned with a
                    laugh to find my way out of this stifling, murky, circumscribed space.
                I hurried up the companion-stair and turned on to the deck into the still, hot
                    night.
                Just as I did so the figure of my travelling companion came down towards me.
                ‘I say! Dickinson!’
                ‘Hullo!’
                ‘Do you know who that person is, Williamson the name is, in No. 36 cabin?’
                Dickinson stopped and stared at me.
                ‘What have you been up to?’ he said laconically after a minute's survey.
                ‘Why?’ I said evasively, feeling myself colour. ‘How do you mean?’
                ‘Well, you look rather excited. Come and have a drink.’
                ‘Yes, I think I will,’ I answered. ‘But really, have you seen this passenger
                        Williamson? Upon my honour the dress was
                    most extraordinary.’
                ‘What on earth are you talking about?’ Dickinson returned. ‘I don't know whom you
                    mean. All the passengers I've seen are a most ordinary lot.’
                I saw he knew nothing about it, and that I could not get any information from
                    him, and it suddenly occurred to me it was unwise to interest him too much in
                    the Unknown. Dickinson was a good-looking fellow, and piqued himself on his
                    skill and experience with women.
                When he returned to the charge a minute later, as I kept silence, with ‘Well,
                    what's the joke? Come along, let's have it,’ I answered: ‘Oh, bother! I don't
                    know. Let's get those drinks before the stewards go.’
                Dickinson got the impression I was a little screwed, and I let him keep it. I
                    took a couple of brandies and sodas with him in the saloon, talked a lot of nonsense to avoid rational
                    conversation, and then got away to my own cabin, bolted the door, turned on the
                    electric light, and flung myself on the couch under the window.
                I made myself comfortable with a cushion under my head, and a first-rate Aden
                    cigarette in my teeth, and stared up through the great square open port-window
                    at the brilliant sky, which changed as the ship moved onward as a turning
                    kaleidoscope.
                I was thinking of the dead failure of that kiss, and I laughed outright as I
                    recalled the sharp blow of the head on the woodwork.
                ‘Fearful crack it must have been!’ I thought. ‘I shall be in for some terrific
                    apology to-morrow, I expect.’
                Of course my conduct had been terribly flippant and my levity quite
                    reprehensible, but then a hard-worked Indian officer, going home on his first
                    leave, is apt to be afflicted with a buoyancy
                    of spirits. It is not a malady that attacks us very frequently in this life, but
                    I had it badly just then.
                Six years of honest hard labour in the East lay behind me.
                One year's idleness at home, gilded with a thundering good income just come into,
                    lay before me. In these circumstances, who would not feel a certain
                    irresponsible gaiety?
                I lay back contentedly, with my thoughts wandering to England and all I would do
                    there, and with a comfortable conviction I was the luckiest fellow going.
                The next morning I was at the breakfast-table punctually at nine, and I scanned
                    the line of faces on either side with eager eyes, but the one I sought was
                    absent.
                For the whole two hours during which breakfast was served to relays of passengers
                    I sat waiting with exemplary patience; but she did not appear, and when the
                    stewards came to remove the cloth I went
                    up-stairs, feeling vexed and disappointed.
                ‘Ill again, I suppose,’ I thought, and began to walk slowly up the deck.
                Then as I glanced along the polished boards, shining in the morning sunlight,
                    suddenly I saw her. My heart beat suddenly.
                I felt the blood come to my face, and I turned aside and leant over the rail,
                    that I might see for a moment without being seen. Iron supports ran up from the
                    side-railing to which the awning was attached, and beside one of these, round
                    which a loose piece of canvas furled and unfurled in the salt breeze, I stood
                    and looked along the deck.
                She was sitting in a long chair reading. The fierce light beating through the
                    yellow canvas fell warmly round her.
                She was dressed in white serge, and the form I had divined last night I clearly
                    and exactly realised with my vision now. Thin, as I had thought, but incomparably graceful, with a turn of
                    the shoulder and a pose of the neck, that, as my eye caught it, seemed to arrest
                    my very pulses.
                She was wearing no hat, and the stray gleams of sunlight coming at intervals
                    under the awning glittered on the dark hair, making it a confusion of gilt and
                    ebony.
                I paused a second or two to get rid of the look of triumphant pleasure I felt
                    must be on my face, and then, summoning the most dejected expression I could, I
                    walked hastily up towards her with a sort of contrite, desperately anxious
                    air.
                She continued to read till I was close beside her chair. I stopped and looked
                    down upon her, and she glanced up at me.
                Such a look came upon me from under the lids!
                Sabres unsheathed, knives in the sunlight, and fires burnt blue, were none of
                    them in it with that look, and as she transferred her eyes immediately to the book again, I almost expected to
                    see the page shrivel under them. I felt rather shrivelled.
                ‘Will you ever forgive me for last night?’ I said in my gentlest tone. ‘I have no
                    words to say how I regret it.’
                There was no response. I waited, watching the delicate angry scarlet receding and
                    returning, glowing and suffusing itself, under the pale skin. I felt keenly, as
                    it were, extra conscious of everything,—of the heat smiting down on us through
                    the canvas, of the glare from the shimmering sea, of the buoyant roll of the
                    ship as it cut through the blue turbulent water.
                ‘What is there I can say or do? How can I earn your forgiveness?’
                No answer.
                The long figure and the satin head beneath me remained motionless.
                ‘To forgive,’ I murmured, ‘is the divinest prerogative of the human being.’
                
                ‘On the contrary,’ and the tone of the cold voice seemed literally to cut the
                    sunny air, ‘to respect itself.’
                ‘One cannot respect oneself if one has no charity and no mercy,’ I returned.
                A slight shrug of the shoulders was the only answer.
                I stood wondering what argument would tell with her most; then, taking my cue
                    from her last words, I said in a low voice:
                ‘At least there's one extenuation, not of my error perhaps, but of the injury to
                    you: I did not succeed.’
                The scarlet under her eyes deepened a little, and she answered curtly:
                ‘No. If you had, I never could have forgiven you.’
                My heart beat.
                ‘But now you will?’ I said, bending a little lower and throwing the most
                    reverential anxiety into my tone.
                
                She was silent a few seconds, then she said decisively:
                ‘Yes. Let us say no more with reference to it. I wish to forget such a thing was
                    even possible.’
                I was rather surprised at her summary dismissal of the subject. It was more a
                    masculine than a feminine way of treating it.
                I expected her to forgive me, but I thought that, like most women, she would have
                    pottered round the matter at least half an hour first.
                However, the surprise was pleasant, and I felt on the whole admiration for the
                    way she had treated me. She had forgiven me, but she had made me feel distinctly
                    that pardon was no invitation to err again, and her brief disposal of the matter
                    seemed to me more convincing of her real anger than if she had maintained a show
                    of implacable resentment.
                I stood looking down upon her in silence, noting
                    the tranquil forehead with not a line to mar it, from the sweep of the long
                    eyebrows to the black silk-like rings of the hair at the pale oval of the face,
                    lighted by the fleeting scarlet tints in the cheeks and the curious lustre of
                    the eyes.
                I turned and drew an empty chair up beside hers at the side of the deck and threw
                    myself into it.
                There was silence between us, and I made no effort to break it.
                For those moments I delivered myself over to that sense of keen simple pleasure
                    in life that comes upon all created beings at times, even the most wretched,
                    like an unexpected gust of wind. The realisation comes suddenly that they live,
                    and Life itself, distinct from circumstance and environment, is pure
                    rapture.
                I leant back in the mellow light under the sun-smitten awning, the freshening
                    breeze 
                        urg-
                        urging
                     ing on the flying steamer, the blue
                    undulating billows rolling and swelling exuberantly as they bore us on. I felt
                    the keen salt wind, full of vital life-giving principle, blow against my face,
                    and I looked at this beautiful living object beside me in silence, realising the
                    joy of existence.
                ‘I did not see you at breakfast this morning?’ I said at last.
                ‘No,’ she answered, with the slow brilliant smile I had noted last night. ‘I was
                    ill. It is an horribly unpoetic thing to suffer from, sea-sickness—the sort of
                    thing one would like to be specially exempted from by Providence, but I'm not,
                    unfortunately.’
                ‘I don't agree with your line of thought at all,’ I said, laughing. ‘I think
                    those people that are above the ordinary weaknesses of human nature are
                    hateful:—people with seraphic constitutions, that never catch an honest cold,
                    nor have toothache, are never sea-sick, and
                    never look seedy. It's annoying to ordinary mortals.’
                The girl laughed.
                ‘Men don't generally like a woman to look seedy.’
                ‘I don't know. I think pain and suffering on a beautiful face accentuate its
                    beauty, and it gives opportunity to soothe and console. I think a perfectly
                    independent person is always irritating and unattractive.’
                She turned to me with a marked elevation of her eyebrows and a brilliant,
                    derisive mockery in her eyes.
                ‘Do you mean to intimate you are sympathetic?’
                ‘I think I am rather.’
                ‘You surprise me!’
                ‘Why?’ I asked.
                ‘I never met a man who was so yet.’
                ‘I am sure you must have had tremendous experience!’ I said mockingly, watching
                        the vermilion, elliptical lines of her
                    mouth form and vanish and form again as she smiled and talked.
                ‘Perhaps not,’ she answered. ‘A little goes a long way.’
                She spoke with a charming smile and in a light, easy tone, but my ear detected
                    the accent of genuine contempt in it—not the emphasised contempt displayed for
                    bravado of something really half admired, but the indulgent contempt of absolute
                    indifference.
                And it stimulated me. I was so thoroughly accustomed to the anxious servility
                    which characterises the ordinary young girl's conversation with men that this
                    new tone of faint, slighting disdain struck me directly.
                It was not pleasant; on the contrary, it was irritating and uncomfortable, but at
                    least it was a change.
                I did not answer, but just leant back and looked at her, and wondered what was
                    the source of this contempt.
                
                I felt it was not the mere arrogance of a good-looking woman accustomed to
                    flattery and attention.
                That subtle inflexion of scorn in the clear voice was the unconscious expression
                    of a genuine indifference for that which is known to be worthless.
                And I felt, too, as I watched the gleaming eyes that had turned from mine, and
                    were now absently fixed on the distant sky-line, that there was another spring
                    to this emotion—a knowledge of worth within erself.
                Our chairs remained side by side all through the morning, and we talked in a
                    lazy, desultory way at intervals without either of us taking the trouble to
                    sustain a continuous conversation, and when the luncheon-bell rang we went down
                    together, to find that we sat opposite each other.
                That evening after dinner I strolled up on deck. It seemed too hot for the
                        smoking- room to be attractive—besides,
                    where was Eurydice? Instinctively I wanted to see her again.
                The middle part of the deck, where I came up, seemed deserted, and I stood for a
                    minute at the side, noting the splendour of the night. It was the splendour of
                    the tropics.
                A huge saffron moon rolled downwards through the purple sky that hung low over
                    the ship, like a dark, inflated curtain, and seemed to quiver and pulsate with
                    the ceaseless, restless light of its stars and planets.
                The air was heavy and oppressive, almost sulphurous, like the air at the mouth of
                    a crater.
                As I stood watching the indolent, black water undulating silently away to the
                    dark horizon, the faint, tinkling notes of a banjo came down to me from the
                    forward part of the ship.
                I listened, and then the words reached me, ‘She
                    told me her age was five-and-twenty!’ sung with much spirit and rapidity.
                I laughed and walked forward in the direction of the sound.
                The passengers had gathered at this end of the ship, and were clustered together
                    in groups or lines in their deck-chairs.
                It was dusky; there was no artificial light here, and the moon, hastening
                    headlong downwards to the sea, only gave an uncertain, transverse light across
                    the smooth rolling waves.
                I wound in and out amongst the chairs, following the sound, and reached a little
                    group of four at the extreme end of the vessel.
                One of that group was Eurydice. She was sitting looking down the ship, and she
                    smiled as she saw me come up.
                She was sitting on a camp-stool seemingly, and leaning against the bulwarks.
                    Dickinson and another man were balanced on the top bar of the rail, and a girl of about nineteen sat
                    cross-legged on the deck, the banjo she had just finished playing in her lap,
                    and the cigar she had just lighted in her mouth.
                All were smoking, in fact, except Eurydice. Beside them, on an empty tar-barrel
                    turned up, stood four cups of coffee and a slim liqueur-bottle.
                Dickinson looked across at me from his perch and laughed.
                ‘Don't you think we look comfortable?’ he asked.
                ‘Extremely,’ I said, glancing over them. ‘Shall I disturb you?’
                ‘Not a bit,’ answered the girl with the banjo. ‘Come and sit down à la Afghan, it's a nice steady position, and have
                    a cigar!’
                She looked up at me smiling, and laid her hand on the deck beside her with a
                    gesture of invitation. I glanced down upon her. She was handsome, very, or at
                    any rate looked so at that moment, with her
                    eyes full of animated impertinence, a flush on either cheek, and the light brown
                    curls of her close-cropped hair gently stirred by the night wind as the rolling
                    ship bore onwards.
                She had disdained to dress for dinner, and still wore her morning shirt and
                    collar, with a man's red tie knotted round her neck, and she sat cross-legged
                    with the cigar in her mouth, reminding one of the American girl, slang, modern
                    fastness, and other disagreeable things.
                I looked at the woman directly facing her. Eurydice was leaning forward, her
                    elbow resting on her knee and her chin supported on her hand, looking down the
                    length of the ship. Her black hair was parted in the middle and lay heavy above
                    the narrow forehead and long eyebrows.
                Her arms and neck were bare, and their whiteness hardly defined itself from the
                    whiteness of her dress.
                
                Just so might the real Eurydice have sat and looked, gazing down one of the green
                    alleys of Greece. The thought shot across me for one moment, and it seemed while
                    these two women sat opposite each other as if two centuries had been brought
                    face to face, the century of Orpheus and the nineteenth, and the intermediate
                    centuries no longer rolled between.
                I felt disinclined to plant myself cross-legged beside this girl and smoke
                    beneath this other woman's eyes, and I glanced round for a chair.
                Failing this there was a second empty barrel which I drew close to Eurydice's
                    side and sat down.
                A slight contraction of her eyebrows answered the hot flush that leapt to the
                    other girl's face as I refused her invitation, and I saw Eurydice resented the
                    slight to her friend.
                A glance at the two faces was enough to guide me, and I leant forward to the girl
                    with a smile.
                
                ‘It isn't everyone who can sit àla Afghan with
                    the same grace and look as graceful as you do.’
                The girl laughed and twitched round a peg of the banjo.
                ‘Well, take care you don't topple off that tar-barrel; that will look less
                    graceful still!’ she answered, and there was a general laugh.
                ‘Sing us something else, Amy,’ Eurydice said after a minute.
                ‘I've come to the end of my répertoire,’ the
                    girl returned.
                ‘You sing something,’ and she handed the banjo up towards her companion, holding
                    it by the neck.
                Eurydice laid a white hand on the silver edge of the instrument as it touched her
                    knees.
                ‘I can't sing to the banjo,’ she said, smiling. ‘I would if my guitar were
                    here.’
                ‘Can I fetch it for you?’ I said hastily.
                ‘Oh no, I won't trouble you,’ she said.
                
                The other girl sprang to her feet.
                ‘I'll go,’ she said, ‘I know where it is,’ and she disappeared.
                It seemed quite natural that that little girl should race away to fetch the
                    guitar while the other leant back undisturbed.
                The men smoked in silence. Eurydice said nothing, and her eyes were turned away
                    from us to the lustrous Southern sky. She was one of those peculiar people who
                    don't speak unless they have something to say. As for me, I felt a remark
                    addressed to her ought to be one really worth listening to, and not being
                    prepared with one to meet such an unusual requirement, I also stared
                    respectfully at the stars and said nothing.
                After a few seconds the girl came back with the guitar.
                ‘Thank you so much, dear,’ Eurydice said, as she took it; and I envied that girl
                    as I heard.
                There was another interval while Eurydice raised
                    the strings and tuned them; then suddenly, when the whole was in accord, she
                    looked up from the instrument.
                ‘I don't think it's much use my singing after all,’ she said. ‘It will only
                    depress you. All my songs are so melancholy.’
                There was an eager chorus of persuasion.
                ‘Oh, do,’ said the girl, who had taken up her position again at the other's
                    feet.
                ‘It won't depress us. What does it matter? —there's nothing in a song.’
                Eurydice said no more. She struck a few notes, and I recognised the opening of
                    Schubert's Adieu.
                A complete silence fell on us. No one stirred.
                The men ceased even to smoke, and in an absolute hush the first liquid notes of
                    the Adieu came to us, seeming to divide softly the still dark
                    air.
                Her voice was incomparable in speaking even, and
                    exercised a great influence over me, and now as the stream of sound swelled from
                    her throat and flowed from her lips, each delicate musical note seemed like a
                    link in a chain of subtle enchantment falling on me as I heard 
                        ‘Farewell, thou waitest for me,
                        Soon, soon I shall depart.’
                    
                She was singing with no music, and her gaze looked out straight before her in the
                    night. As she sang those words, a tremor as of passionate agonised longing
                    vibrated through them. They came from her parted lips as the restless sigh of a
                    spirit longing to escape.
                The long-drawn sorrowful notes, and the indefinable accent of sadness she
                    weighted them with, went down the length of the ship, and slowly from all parts
                    of it the passengers gathered silently and pressed round in a circle to
                    listen.
                
                Glancing round at the end of the first verse, I saw our little group was
                    surrounded by a ring of eager hearers.
                As the last note of the voice died, no one stirred or spoke; the sobbing
                    accompaniment of the guitar was the only sound.
                Eurydice, evidently absolutely oblivious of her audience, absorbed in the rapt
                    enthusiasm of the song, played on that marvellous music of Schubert that
                    represents so exactly the convulsive sobs, the falling tears of the lover at the
                    death-bed of his love.
                And Eurydice played it, with the strings thrilling and quivering under her
                    passionate touch till the sense of music was lost, and only the great agonised
                    sobs of a breaking human heart seemed throbbing through the night.
                The crowd stood motionless, breathless, as one man. Every face was pale,
                    Eurydice's own was blanched to the tint of death, her throat and bosom heaving, her eyes swimming in tears
                    as she raised them towards the East to commence the last verse.
                
                    ‘Farewell until the dawning of the Eternal Day.’
                
                There was no tremor now in the perfect voice: it welled upwards in a strain of
                    ecstatic triumph, growing louder and clearer in a rapture of Faith, then it sank
                    slowly with the words 
                        ‘The day that shall re-unite me
                        For ever unto thee,’
                     with an infinite resignation in its tone, and the last line came softly to
                    us as a mere breath, a sigh of tenderness, dying in its own measureless
                    sadness.
                For some minutes there was no sound or movement amongst her audience, then
                    everybody drew a long breath, and Eurydice herself started up with a smile, and
                    the tears glisten ing on her cheeks.
                
                ‘A most artistic performance!’ said a man next me.
                The others clapped enthusiastically. Eurydice holding the guitar, tried to see an
                    exit, but she was completely closed in by an admiring circle.
                ‘Oh do grant us another.’
                ‘Oh do sing once more.’
                But Eurydice was immovable.
                ‘No, I can't, really,’ she said smiling, in answer, and then, as they pressed
                    further—
                ‘I can't; I'm not up to it.’
                I looked keenly at her as I heard, and I saw it was the simple truth: her slight
                    hand quivered nervously on the neck of the guitar and the other arm that hung at
                    her side trembled visibly; her face had not recovered its natural colouring.
                Conventional expressions of regret on all sides followed this statement, soothing
                    murmurs of admiration and sympathy circulated
                    round her, and the groups of men reluctantly parted and made way for her to pass
                    through them.
                I said nothing nor stirred from my original position, but I rose as she passed
                    and looked at her, and our glance met for a second.
                ‘I am so glad you liked it,’ she said with a smile, answering my eyes.
                The little girl with the banjo followed her, and the two women disappeared.
                ‘Remarkably fine voice, so flexible.’
                ‘Yes, she's a thorough artist too.’
                ‘She rather overstrained herself.’
                ‘Who is she?’
                ‘She joined the ship at Aden....’
                I walked away, disliking to hear her commented upon, and made my way to another
                    part of the ship and sat down in an ownerless deck-chair close to the
                    bulwarks.
                I leant back, the Adieu still ringing in my ears, those sobbing
                    notes still beating through my brain, and the
                    delicate, finely cut scarlet lips that had uttered them still before my
                    vision.
                It was not long before Dickinson found me out.
                He came sauntering up with his hands in his pockets and a cigarette in his
                    teeth.
                ‘So there you are,’ he exclaimed.
                ‘When you disappeared, I thought you were overcome with your feelings. I rushed
                    down to your cabin with a smelling-bottle and Miss Williamson's eau de cologne to revive you.’
                ‘Not quite so bad as that,’ I answered idly.
                ‘Everybody's cleared off now,’ he remarked; ‘come and take a turn round. I find
                    one gets confoundedly little exercise on board ship.’
                I got up and lighted a cigar and joined him.
                ‘Do you know, I always thought it impossible I should marry,’ I said as we
                        walked along the silent, deserted deck. ‘I
                    always hated the idea; I never could understand how men could ... but I believe
                    I do understand now.’
                ‘And the charming Dicey has helped to enlighten you I suppose?’ answered
                    Dickinson mockingly.
                ‘Well, it is very odd,’ I said, following up the thread of my own reflections,
                    and indifferent to his chaff.
                ‘Of all the women I've known, admired, even loved, I suppose in a way, there has
                    not been one who has not caused me a shudder when I've imagined her just for an
                    instant as my wife, boxed up with me in perpetuity, not one ... until now.’
                ‘And you mean this, what's her name, Eurydice is the one whom you'd rather fancy
                    in the position?’
                ‘Oh, I don't know that I go as far as that, but she's certainly totally different
                    from any other woman I've ever met. I mean I
                    can imagine her carrying a man away into any folly—even marriage.’
                ‘Yes. She is a divine creation, I admit, most impressive and very nice at a safe
                    distance, but do you know I think she'd be rather an awful sort of person to
                    marry! Fancy coming home late, drunk, and seeing her sitting waiting for one
                    with that marble face and those level eyebrows.’
                ‘Well,’ I answered with a quick flush of pleasure as a vision of her, so waiting,
                    and rising with soft arms outstretched in greeting, formed itself before me at
                    his words. ‘But it isn't everyone who wants to come home late, drunk.’
                Dickinson laughed good-naturedly.
                ‘Quite right, old man, it isn't. I daresay she'd do all right for you; the little
                    one is more my style, she's a touch of the barmaid about her: keep you
                    cheerful.’
                
                ‘But we were talking about marriage,’ I persisted. ‘Surely when one marries one
                    does not want a repetition of the women one may have known before marriage?’
                ‘Yes, I should,’ observed Dickinson sententiously. ‘I like what I am accustomed
                    to.’
                ‘Oh, of course, if you do!’ I rejoined, with a shrug of my shoulders. ‘I should
                    prefer a change.’
                ‘You'll certainly get it,’ laughed Dickinson, ‘out of Miss Williamson. I should
                    say she's unique.’
                I stopped and leant over the bulwarks, looking through the violet darkness of the
                    night, and Dickinson paused beside me, kicking the lowest iron rail with his
                    foot.
                ‘I say, I find it's getting rather chilly! Don't you think the smoking-room would
                    be an improvement?’
                I did not think it would, and said so.
                ‘I see you are determined on doing the
                    sentimental, so I won't stay and disturb you,’ and he strolled away down towards
                    the saloon.
                I leant there thinking; perhaps I was in a sentimental mood. At any rate I felt
                    no inclination to sleep, if that is any sign of it, and I was indifferent to the
                    chilliness of the air, though the coldest hour of the night was approaching. I
                    felt the night dew lying thickly on the bulwarks, and my own clothes were wet
                    with it.
                I was thinking of Dickinson's words, ‘she's unique.’
                Certainly she was different, incomparably different, from every other woman I had
                    met, and her influence upon me different from that which any other woman had
                    possessed over me, and I asked myself with a half-mocking smile, ‘Was she,’
                    perhaps in accordance with the theory of the greatest writer upon love in all
                    the ages, ‘the missing portion of my own broken and incomplete being, that
                    craved to recover her and take her again to
                    itself and to restore its wholeness and entirety?’
                As I stood there balancing idly with myself questions to which the human brain is
                    inexorably forbidden to supply the answer, faint, broken shafts of light began
                    to tremble above the dark line of the horizon in the East, and I turned to it to
                    watch with curious eyes the rising of the Young Day.
                Slowly the overhanging blackness of the night and the reflected blackness of the
                    sea lightened, and the whole darkness of the sky at the first touch of dawn
                    seemed to quiver even as a great curtain grasped by some vast, withdrawing
                    hand.
                Slowly, imperceptibly, with invisibly vanishing folds, the veil was gathered
                    back, and the shadowy surface of the wide, dim mirror of the sea gleamed faintly
                    with translucent, opaline, tints of grey.
                Then, suddenly, as swords flashed from their
                    sheaths, shot up three bars of crimson light obliquely from the dark sea line to
                    the empyrean, transforming the uncertain, trembling pallor and shades of the
                    water into one soft, subtle mysterious harmony of mauve.
                Smooth, almost motionless, the sea lay, yet swelling, palpitating gently,
                    trembling and blushing under the caresses of the Dawn. For some moments, the
                    water stretched, a glimmering circle of violet to the horizon, then,
                    unhesitatingly, triumphantly, with overpowering sovereignty, the great Day rose
                    in its mantle of clear light.
                The purples and the shadows fled, the wavering tints and shades vanished into one
                    brilliance of purest gold, the sea seemed to laugh openly as the fresh day
                    breeze swept over it.
                Small crests of white foam leapt up and smiling dimples and hollows sparkled
                    between.
                The subdued and tender sadness, the ever
                    marvellous mystery of the dawn was past. It was glad, joyous, certain Morning
                    that smiled now upon the sea.
                I raised my arms from the railing and turned to go down to my cabin, a confident
                    gladness in my heart.
                Full of human egoism, I felt vaguely as if this heavenly awakening was typical of
                    the dawn of a new era in my life.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II
                A WEEK had gone by, and day by day Eurydice and I had sat side
                    by side on the deck talking; in the morning with the sun beating fiercely on the
                    awning, in the afternoon with its rich, yellow glare thrown back from the water,
                    in the evening with the cool, faint moonlight falling on us, and at night when
                    the moon had disappeared, under the steady glow of the stars.
                Two philosophers in ancient Athens could hardly have discoursed more
                    indefatigably in one of their covered walks than she and I upon that covered
                    deck.
                The great charm of these conversations was their pure impersonality. We discussed
                    anything and everything except ourselves, our lives, or our experiences; and
                    this fact set our conversation on a different
                    level from any I had held before.
                We were nothing while we talked, our opinions, theories, arguments, were
                    everything. We were like parents losing themselves in the identity of their
                    children. And this sort of talk, this mental contact with a mind like
                    Eurydice's, was a novel and delightful experience for me.
                She was clever, with a tremendous power for thought in her brain and a peculiar
                    gift for its expression on her lips, and her influence on my own intellect was
                    very great.
                She roused it from the apathy into which it had sunk during six years of the
                    empty, frivolous life of an army man in India. When with her, those six years
                    seemed taken off my life.
                She seemed to reinfuse through my brain the vigour it had had at six-and-twenty.
                    And her influence on my moral being was as great.
                
                In every word, in every sentence she uttered, in the whole length of those
                    dispassionate conversations we had, there was gradually unfolded before me the
                    beauty of an elevated, and yet extremely sympathetic character, and all the
                    better part of my own was drawn irresistibly towards it.
                Going back to my cabin from where we had been sitting forward, on this seventh
                    night of our acquaintance, I knew that I loved her, and loved her with the best
                    and noblest love one human being can feel for another, the love that has its
                    roots in reverence and its fruits in devotion,—the love that thinks only of the
                    object, and will deny its own to gain its idol's pleasure. To her I would
                    dedicate my life, if she would accept the dedication, and I thought of it with
                    the passionate enthusiasm of youth, with the ardour of self-devotion and worship
                    that is an innate though hidden trait of human nature.
                
                Hidden, little seen perhaps, because so rarely is the worthy object for worship
                    found.
                Seven days! Not long a time in which to know and judge another, but I was
                    satisfied. Every instinct, every voice within me, told me this was a woman not
                    merely that I could love but one that I could worship. And I believed that she
                    would accept both love and worship from me. I believed she was drawn to me as I
                    to her with a strong inclination that I would set myself to turn into love.
                I was over thirty, but I felt less than twenty that night as I walked back to my
                    cabin thinking of her with the first fresh light of Love breaking into my
                    life.
                The following evening after dinner, I went to find her as usual, but, for the
                    first time, with an uncertain tremor of feeling, because for the first time a
                    personal prayer was on my lips.
                I went slowly along the deck. The boards were
                    steady and level as the boards of a ballroom. The night was dark but breathless;
                    the sea gleamed, smooth and almost motionless, on either side, just faintly
                    rising and swelling like the bosom of a woman asleep.
                Ahead of me, rose the masts with their intricate masses of rigging spun like a
                    gigantic web across the star-spangled sky, and halfway up the mast swung an
                    electric light, pouring a shower of tremulous transverse rays through the
                    cordage.
                Beneath it, in the full flood of light, that seemed to descend upon her like a
                    mantle of silver, she was sitting idly.
                There were a good many other passengers on the deck, the majority strolling up
                    and down in twos and twos, some sitting at small deck tables playing cards or
                    chess.
                A group of well-dressed girls, surrounded with a semicircle of young men on
                        chairs, were sitting smoking and drinking
                    at the far end in the shadow, their thin laughter diffused with their cigarette
                    smoke in the warm, languid air.
                She, the handsomest woman on board, sat idle, silent, and alone. Instinctively my
                    feet quickened.
                She looked up as I approached with a slow soft smile that struck me vaguely as
                    the most sad that I had seen yet upon her face.
                My own heart beat as I met it, for a second my voice died, dried, suffocated in
                    my throat.
                ‘How long you have been!’ she murmured with the smile still on her mouth, and the
                    low tone seemed like a sigh on the night air.
                Fire, not blood, seemed rushing through my veins.
                I looked round, guided by some serviceable mechanical instinct, and drew a chair
                    close beside and parallel to hers, and threw myself into it. Thus we were
                    screened from view by the mast and some vacant
                    chairs that had been piled against it.
                I looked at her, looked at the leant-back head with its weight of brilliant hair,
                    turned just so much towards me as to suggest a faint longing to rest near mine,
                    at the line of the nostril, slightly dilated, at the trembling lashes, and the
                    pallor of the delicious throat with the uncertain light playing over it.
                No word was said, but on the bare arm that lay along the chair-rest by mine, I
                    laid my hand.
                ‘Have you been waiting for me?’ I said.
                ‘Yes,’ came back as a breath, from her lips that hardly parted to say it.
                That one moment when this soft, weak word came to my ears was perhaps the
                    supremest of unmixed joy in my life. For that single instant the promise of
                    pleasure shone out clear and distinct, denuded of its inexorable pains and
                    penalties and fetters.
                
                The future and the past were obliterated, mere blots, that single point of time
                    enclosed nothing but the spontaneous irresponsible delight of nature.
                Swayed and dominated by it, and passionately conscious of her presence, her
                    proximity, her vitality, her personality, and oblivious of all else, I leant my
                    elbow on her chair.
                ‘And now dearest, I am here.’
                I felt her arm glow and quiver suddenly under my fingers.
                A sudden relaxation, like the loosening of a musical string, passed through her
                    form, almost a collapse, and the lovely head turned from me.
                ‘Pray don't,’ she murmured, and the voice seemed suffocated with suppressed
                    tears.
                Blinded and confused with my own feelings, and lost in my own sense of triumphant
                    satisfaction, I hardly was conscious of surprise or wonder, and I answered half
                        jestingly: ‘Why do you turn away? Love
                    always pursues a fugitive.’
                That word seemed to break some bond that had been holding her. She started and
                    sat upright, throwing my hand from her arm, and turned her face to me.
                It was deathlike, and in the steel-coloured, wavering light, her eyes blazed upon
                    me through the crowding tears.
                ‘How can you say that word to me?’
                I was dismayed and startled. I looked back at her, not knowing what her meaning
                    was.
                Then as a half-drunken man, when called to account, confusedly recalls his words,
                    not because he sees their folly, but because he dimly knows his power of
                    judgment is gone, I suddenly mistrusted what I had said, what I had intimated,
                    what my glance had been in that first great impulse of passion.
                Intoxicated still, and not thinking clearly, I felt she thought in some way her
                        dignity offended, and I said hurriedly:
                    ‘Why, when we were saying yesterday there was nothing so divine as married
                    love?’
                ‘But,’ and her voice was breathless, the one sentence seemed to break from her
                    beating breast painfully as if she had been stabbed there. ‘You must know ... I
                        am married.’
                There was silence. An unbreakable silence in which we sat motionless, almost
                    breathless, facing each other, staring at each other,—our gaze locked in each
                    other's.
                In me the power to move or speak was killed. The very life seemed suspended in
                    me.
                Married! That strained whisper had reached my brain and paralysed it.
                The word struck in on the eager joy, the confident elation, on all the delightful
                    confusion of feeling within me and instantaneously destroyed it.
                And in the sudden void there were left two
                    struggling emotions, one the sense of mad incredulity, the other the conviction
                    that it was true.
                I knew in those terrible moments clearly that it was so somehow in some
                    incomprehensible way.
                There had been some error somewhere. It would be explained to me later: what did
                    it matter? I glanced at her ringless hands indifferently. I had no power to feel
                    anger.
                All emotion was lost, all feelings made level in one sickening blank.
                At last the sense of mere physical life and power came back to me. My brain was
                    stunned and deadened still, but mechanical actions became possible.
                ‘No, I swear I did not know it,’ I said quietly, and I got up and left her.
                I walked down the same side of the steamer I had passed up a few moments back,
                    the same sound of laughter from the far end
                    reaching me, the same light circles of smoke drifting down beside me, the same
                    calm night upon the water round, only now there was a hell within me.
                As I walked on, I met Dickinson by the saloon door.
                ‘Coming to the smoking-room?’ he said.
                ‘No. I've rather a bad head. I'm going down,’ I answered.
                Dickinson looked at me.
                ‘Sorry. You look seedy. What's she been doing to you?’ he added mockingly.
                I shrugged my shoulders and passed him in silence.
                Then I glanced back over my shoulder and saw him walking decisively in her
                    direction. I went on downstairs with a smile.
                I entered my own cabin and crossed to the window, folded my arms there and leant
                    with my head upon them, letting the revolt of feeling have its way.
                
                Married! this woman.
                The word stirred a mad unreasoning rebellion within me. A rebellion of all those
                    finer, purer, more tender instincts that had sprung up round the main passionate
                    impulse of love for her—this girl as I had thought her.
                The gentleness, the reverence, the consideration that ran through all my thoughts
                    regarding her, and that I had sedulously encouraged and cultivated for her sake,
                    had been like delicate flowers growing on the sides of a volcano and co-existent
                    with the subterranean flames.
                And as in an eruption of the volcano the flowers perish, are annihilated and
                    obliterated in the flow of boiling lava, so now all those holier, more tender
                    impulses, sank submerged under the liberated tide of the underlying passion.
                It was not, as I recognised in an agony of self-abasement, that my love for her
                    was dying, it was changing.
                
                Her words could not kill it, but they would transform it.
                Its extinction I would have welcomed, its metamorphosis I knew and dreaded.
                It must have been a long time that I stood there, but of how long I was
                    unconscious, and at last, breaking the silence, and startlingly distinct in it
                    came a hesitating tap at the door.
                It was a gentle knock, but the sound went through the cabin and sent the blood
                    across my face. I turned and paused irresolute. Should I open the door or not? I
                    felt a distinct distaste to see this woman then.
                I waited, and half unconsciously I expected the knock to be repeated.
                It was not, however, and, stimulated by the thought that she had gone, I walked
                    to the door and threw it open.
                She had not gone. She was standing there, and the light from the electric burner
                        fell sharply on her. The passage and all
                    beyond her was in darkness.
                We both stood for a second in silence, and I noted her face stone-white except
                    for the scarlet line of the lips.
                I felt I could have struck her as she stood there.
                ‘May I speak to you ... explain ...’ she faltered.
                ‘I don't think there's much use in talk,’ I said shortly.
                ‘Perhaps not,’ she answered, with a touch of the familiar satire. ‘Come and talk
                    all the same!’
                I stood irresolute, unwilling to go, but she was the woman I loved, and she said
                    come, and I went.
                We passed through the passage together and found our way to the
                    companion-stair.
                She stumbled twice beside me in the darkness, and twice I caught her arm to
                    steady her.
                
                When we reached the deck she crossed to the side and leant against the rail,
                    holding to it as if for support. I folded my arms on the iron bar and looked
                    away from her, down on the black dividing water beneath us where the phosphorus
                    rose, gleamed, scintillated, and passed as the ship flew forward.
                A warm breath seemed to come against our faces from the heaving, ever-varying
                    smooth salt surface. I would not look at her, but the keen, sensitive
                    side-vision of the eye gave me her image as she stood beside me, and that was
                    all I saw.
                ‘So you didn't know I was married?’ she said at last in a weak, hurried tone.
                ‘Of course I did not! married women usually wear their wedding-ring!’
                ‘I lost it the 
                        scond
                        second
                     day I came on board,’ she answered; ‘in the bathroom, I was using cold
                    water, and my hands were very cold. I suppose it slipped off then. At least I
                    could not find it afterwards, and I could not replace it on board ship, but my name was down on the list of
                    passengers as Mrs. Williamson, and so of course I ... I thought...’
                ‘I don't study the list of passengers,’ I said coldly.
                There was silence for a long time, and then she said timidly:
                ‘I think you're angry with me.’
                ‘I suppose I have no right to be angry,’ I returned bitterly; ‘but it seems odd
                    after all our conversation together that the subject should never have come
                    up.’
                ‘My marriage is not such a pleasant thing that I am always thinking and talking
                    of it,’ she said, with a short laugh.
                ‘Don't you care for the man?’ I said after a minute, and the surge of struggling
                    emotions within me and the restraint upon them all made my voice sound hard and
                    cold.
                ‘Care for him!’ and the contemptuous laugh said the rest.
                
                ‘Why did you marry him, then?’ I said dully. ‘A woman like you could have had
                    anybody.’
                ‘No; that's just where you make the mistake!’ she said vehemently. ‘That is what
                    a man always says to a woman who is decent looking and young; but those things
                    do not last, and a girl's time is not long enough for her to make her choice in.
                    Hardly a girl in a thousand marries the man she would choose. I did not. From
                    fifteen upwards I have had offers from men I did not care for, nor want, and at
                    twenty-three I accepted one of them from the man who pleased me most. I thought
                    it did not matter. I had ceased to expect to meet a man I really loved—I had
                    seen so many in those eight years, I was getting to think I expected too much
                    from life, that love, as I imagined it, did not perhaps exist at all, that, in
                    waiting for something imaginary, I should let the reality pass by me. Don't you
                    see,’ she said 
                        im-
                        impatiently
                     patiently, ‘what a woman's position
                    is? You men only care for youth and beauty! Nothing else weighs a straw with
                    you! Character, intellect, virtue, they are practically as nothing to you. You
                    teach a woman that, so she knows she must either marry in her twenties or face
                    all the rest of her life alone. I waited eight years—then I married without
                    love, and now, one year after ... we have met.
                ‘Is it not the ordinary rule of life, just the ordinary mockery of fate,
                    everything comes just a little, and only a little, too late?
                ‘He does not care for me,’ she continued bitterly. ‘I am nothing to him now, in
                    fact I have not been since ... since ... oh, well, I don't know when his fancy
                    for me died; at the end of the first month of our married life, I think, and
                    when I realised it ... the fearful blank that overspread everything—I seemed to
                    see the future like a huge trackless desert before me stretching up even to the
                    edge of my grave, and he, he shares his life
                    with other women!’
                ‘Then why do you not get a divorce?’ I asked, a sudden ray of hope breaking upon
                    me at her words. ‘Surely your self-respect, the self-respect of any woman,
                    should urge that!’
                ‘How can I?’ she said simply. ‘He is not cruel.’
                She looked at me as she spoke, and in those few words I read the whole tragedy of
                    this woman's life. I understood, and I said nothing. What can one say against
                    these laws of life?
                ‘He has never sworn in my presence and never struck me,’ she continued quietly,
                    as if pursuing her own thoughts, and then, as an exclamation of anger escaped
                    me, she looked up quickly and said: ‘Why? It would be the kindest thing he could
                    do. I have often looked at him and longed for a blow, though even then I am not
                    sure I would get a divorce if I could.’
                
                ‘Why not?’ I asked, with another question burning on my lips that they refused to
                    frame.
                ‘Because,’ she said in a low voice, ‘to me marriage is the holiest of all
                    sacraments and divorce is a sacrilege.’
                I was surprised, and I looked at her in wonder.
                Unmoved and seemingly unconscious of my gaze she stood, a slight white figure
                    leaning against the rail, with the measureless, abysmal blackness of the sea
                    beneath and before her, and the fathomless gloom of the night above and around
                    her. Her arms were folded motionless upon the bar; her eyes, turned away from
                    me, looked out into the darkness.
                Had the words come from a woman happy in her life, happy in her love, they would
                    hardly have struck me, but from her lips, the lips of a woman who had suffered,
                    was at this moment suffering acutely through this very marriage she termed the
                    holiest of all 
                        sacra-
                        sacraments
                     ments, those words had tremendous
                    weight, and revealed still further to me the great impersonality of this mind I
                    loved.
                ‘But surely,’ I urged, ‘when he has so far broken the ties, then you also are
                    free.’
                ‘Hardly, I think,’ she said in the level voice of one who has passed through and
                    left behind doubt and question, whose decisions are immutably formed, and whose
                    acting on them has become almost mechanical. ‘He has broken them in secret, but
                    divorce breaks them in public. You see,’ she added, and her voice became
                    intensely grave, ‘suppose I take the communion with another, and I see that he
                    spills the wine, I would not overturn the table for that reason.’
                I was silent. The solemnity of her manner half awed me, and checked all personal
                    and selfish arguments. When I spoke, it was with a weak evasiveness.
                ‘If you left him surely the world even would not
                    condemn you. At least you would have the sympathy of all those whose sympathy is
                    worth having.’
                ‘And what then?’ she said with an accent of surprise. ‘I don't live for the
                    world's sympathy, I live for my own duty. To be true to myself is my principle,
                    and the only guide I have,’ she added, turning fully to me, and the tremendous
                    force and power that looked out from the light brilliant eyes seemed to beat
                    down personal thought in my brain and hold me, merely listening. ‘Always to do
                    that which I consider right and honourable, independent of loss or gain, or
                    praise or condemnation. Others may say what they please, for their opinion I
                    care not at all, but my own good opinion I must have. I could not live without
                    it. I must feel always that I have nothing to reproach myself with; and if I
                    left him I should reproach myself. The fact that he has sinned does not give me
                    a licence to sin also. Besides, even supposing
                    for one instant that I felt myself justified in leaving him, I would not; for,
                    if I did, my example might make the way easier for another woman less justified,
                    or even not justified at all, to desecrate her word. I have given mine once, and
                    now I am bound by it until Death releases me.’
                ‘And yet you can praise Marriage as a glorious institution.’ The words were stung
                    out of me by the pressure of my own feelings, said in spite of my self-control,
                    and brought regret the moment after.
                Her white face became even whiter, and I saw her tremble visibly with nervous
                    excitement as she hesitated for a moment, seeking words to defend that which she
                    considered holy against my sneer.
                ‘Yes,’ she answered passionately, ‘It is: I have always thought so, and think so
                    still. The fact that I have through folly or misfortune rendered myself unhappy
                    by its means does not blind me to its value.
                    Because the gift of gold is sometimes ruin to a man, would you deny that gold is
                    gold? As a sacrament married life is holy; as a theory it is perfect. In
                    practice, perhaps, it is not always either, for humanity is neither holy nor
                    perfect, but blame Humanity for that, not Marriage. Love, absolute love, is so
                    difficult to find, only to be obtained by the fortunate, to be envied by the
                    unfortunate, but if you have found it, then surely this marriage that it's the
                    fashion to laugh at, this knitting together for ever of the two half lives, this
                    absolute dedication each to the other, this open unashamed union, blessed and
                    ratified in the sight of all men, this undenied and eternal devotion and
                    surrender of the two existences to each other, surely this is the most
                    satisfying sphere in which two love-inspired minds can move. Think what it might
                    have been, would have been, if we had entered it together!’
                
                She was facing me now, and her form seemed suddenly taller, dilated with the
                    strength of feeling moving her.
                In the darkness that had grown and grown as we stood there, I could still see the
                    pallid suffering face raised to mine.
                Involuntarily I made a step towards her with outstretched arms; all the best part
                    of human love, all in it that most nearly reflects the Divine, roused and
                    stirred in me. I forgot my anger against her of an hour back.
                Even myself and my own personal passion for her sank into momentary oblivion. For
                    that instant I worshipped rather than loved her.
                She stepped back from me farther into the gloom of the body of the ship, and
                    farther away from the slight reflected light that came from the water.
                ‘No, don't follow me,’ she said in a suffocated voice. ‘There is nothing, nothing
                    now for us, but separation.’
                
                With the last word she vanished; the black background seemed to divide for a
                    moment and then close again between me and her. When I went forward there was
                    black space only and the hanging cords of the rigging.
                The next days contained an indescribable, almost indefinable suffering for me,
                    caged on board face to face with Eurydice, never separated by more than a few
                    feet of space, seeing her with my physical eyes, hearing her voice, brushed by
                    her dress, and yet conscious of that relentless wall between us, invisible,
                    intangible, impalpable, and yet horribly real, as some overpowering presence in
                    a nightmare.
                There were five more days of the voyage before us, and on the first, as I came
                    into the breakfast-room, pale and heavy-eyed, and took my place opposite her, as
                    I sat through the déjeuner facing her across the narrow table on which our
                    plates nearly touched, I slowly realised the rack to which I was bound.
                
                ‘Good God!’ was the first thought that went through me, as I felt an intolerable
                    impulse rise in me to escape from her proximity. ‘Is it possible that another
                    personality can have dominated me so far?’
                Last night the way had seemed hard but clear. She was married. She was absolutely
                    another's, and therefore of no use to me, and should have been, according to my
                    reason, of no interest for me. This had seemed so clear to me last night. It was
                    not so clear now. On the contrary, I felt that this woman who could never be
                    anything, whom, now, I did not even wish to be anything to me, had yet an
                    absorbing, overpowering interest for me. The thought of her filled my mind to
                    running over, just as her presence, her image, seemed to weigh upon my physical
                    senses. Before the breakfast was one-third over I pushed away my unfinished
                    coffee and untouched plate and got up. I left the saloon and went on deck, to
                    the extreme point forward and leant there. I
                    was surprised, angered, annoyed, to feel that my whole mental being seemed
                    overstraining and stronger than the control I put upon it.
                Last night I had confessed to myself, I had told myself openly—the thing is at an
                    end—all is over, and this woman has no further attraction for you. You are now
                    face to face with a temptation which to yield to would blacken, in your own
                    eyes, your conscience for ever. Trample on the idea now and stamp it out
                    finally, and I had thought I could, in adherence to my principles. Most men have
                    some principles, since principles are nothing more than obstinate prejudices
                    against certain acts, and a high-principled man means nothing more than an
                    individual whose prejudices are very obstinate, very numerous, and against those
                    acts which the community he happens to be living in is also prejudiced against.
                    And, like the rest, I had several prejudices, which I called my principles, and the chief amongst them perhaps was
                    the one in question now.
                To seduce another's wife was an idea that in itself revolted me; rather
                    unreasonably, since the accomplishment was fashionable in the regiment and in
                    the station I had come from; but, in spite of my training, it still seemed to me
                    an act tinged with disgrace and dishonour, an act mean and as utterly impossible
                    to myself as to steal a friend's money or to forge his name. And it seemed so to
                    me still.
                I felt an intense revolt from it in my whole nature that no temptation and no
                    passion could overcome.
                Impossible! yes, it was simply that and nothing less than that, and I knew
                    it.
                But why, then, this overwhelming domination of the mind by the thought of an
                    impossibility? I leant hard on the rails and looked down into the fathomless
                    depths of green water seething at the vessel's side—not more fathomless than the psychology of one poor feeble human being.
                    It is not the function of the sane mind to dwell upon a desire which is
                    absolutely beyond its attainment, and once convinced of the entire helplessness
                    of a project it usually has no difficulty in losing its grasp upon it, yet here
                    my mind seemed gripped as in a vice, paralysed by a desire that I knew was
                    absolutely vain.
                It was extraordinary, the indefinable, irresistible fascination that the thought
                    of her, the image of her, possessed for me. I resented it, wrestled with it,
                    struggled under it in vain, the mind was passing through an inexplicable phase,
                    completely subjugated, unnerved and unstrung by the abstract contemplation of
                    pleasure which it fully recognised, absolutely impossible of attainment.
                The last day came. We were due at Marseilles at seven in the evening. We dined at
                    six. Eurydice and I sat as usual opposite each other; and, do what I would, I
                    could not keep my eyes from resting on her, an
                    irresistible magnetism drew them back and back to her. She ate nothing. She
                    accepted a few courses and sent them away untouched. She sat white, motionless,
                    with almost all the beauty stamped out of her face, leaving a blank of pallor
                    and suffering.
                The punkah still swayed over our table, and it almost brushed our heads; each
                    time it passed over hers it lifted the black, gilt-tinted curls from her
                    forehead and then came back to me.
                She never raised her eyes once to mine, nor spoke throughout the whole dinner,
                    and then, when we all rose, I heard the woman next her say:
                ‘You look terribly ill, what is the matter, dear?’
                Eurydice was just rising from her chair, her shoulder was slightly raised as she
                    leant one arm on the chair-back, the other smooth, supple hand just touched the edge of the table. I
                    watched her.
                The heavy white lids lifted suddenly, and the brilliant eyes flashed over her
                    friend's face, and the white lips curved in a satiric smile.
                ‘Sea-sick!’ she said with a mocking laugh, and got up and passed out of the
                    saloon.
                I had heard, and I walked over to the port-window, feeling a sudden violent
                    revolt, a wild rebellion of Self against Self-made laws. That laugh of hers,
                    full of bravely repressed and hidden pain, and ringing with mockery and cynical
                    philosophy, stirred and roused my admiration. She was of the material of which
                    martyrs are made. An untamable, unbreakable spirit, that laughed in the face of
                    Fate and mocked at its own pain, fired the blood in those smooth veins.
                I stood there for a time. Then I turned to seek her. See her I must, speak to her
                    once more before we touched the land.
                
                I threaded my way through the confusion, over and amongst the scattered luggage
                    and round the groups of passengers, passed down the companion-stairs, found my
                    way to her cabin door and knocked.
                There was an assentive murmur from within, and I pushed the door open.
                She was sitting on the floor in the centre of the cabin, before a half-packed
                    portmanteau. Her face was blanched, and she looked ill and tired, as she glanced
                    up when the door opened.
                She did not move as her eyes fixed upon me.
                I came in, shut the door and leant against it. Ceremony was laid aside,
                    forgotten.
                The cabin was in disorder, crowded with feminine attire and trifles of all sorts;
                    over the berth by the window swung, still unpacked, her husband's portrait. The
                    window stood open, and beyond gleamed the lights of the port.
                ‘I am leaving now,’ I said, and my voice sounded
                    half-strangled to myself, ‘if you wish it; do you?’
                Her lips quivered visibly. The pale face grew paler; then she turned her eyes
                    from me and looked into the trunk.
                ‘Yes,’ she answered in a low voice; ‘go.’
                ‘And is this to be final? Do think again. Let me know where you are going, let me
                    know where you will be. Let me have the hope of seeing you sometimes, Eurydice!’
                    I added desperately as she would not speak.
                ‘No; it is impossible,’ she said at last in a low tone. ‘I have quite decided.
                    This is final.’
                ‘Shall I never see you again?’ I said dully, and my eyes seemed literally to
                    drink in the vision of her and hold it.
                ‘Chance may throw us together again, but I hope not,’ she answered with an
                    intense gravity. ‘This is our duty—to part now—and we know it. Let us do
                    it.’
                
                She turned her face to me. It was white and agonised.
                Her lips trembled violently in soft human weakness, but the eyes were lit up with
                    holy determination and resolve.
                It appealed to me; for that moment I felt I would not break it if I could.
                ‘Good-bye, then.’
                One step forward and I bent over her, lifted her, and strained her hard to my
                    breast and kissed her.
                It was the death of our love, and guiltless as a dying kiss.
                The white throat swelled in a suffocated sob, the tremulous arms fluttered
                    against my throat.
                ‘Good-bye, Evelyn.’
                And I went out.
                I walked along the crowded lower passage, blind and deaf to all round me,
                    conscious only of what a curse at times this life can seem.
                
                I found Dickinson waiting for me with our luggage just outside the smoking-room
                    door.
                ‘Thought you were never coming,’ he exclaimed discontentedly as I came up.
                Then he looked hard at me. ‘I say, old man, have a drink or, er—something, won't
                    you?’ he added in a different sort of voice.
                ‘No, thanks,’ I said with a smile. ‘Come along, let's get off this as soon as we
                    can.’
                Dickinson did the best he could do under the circumstances—he let me alone—and
                    arranged himself for the luggage and the other formalities, and within ten
                    minutes we were walking down the quay away from the ship. I glanced back at it
                    once before passing the customs barrier. Its masts and rigging stood out clear
                    against the white light of the town, but all I saw was the inside of her
                    cabin.
                Dickinson passed our baggage through the customs and then we rattled in the
                    lumbering cab through the stony streets of Marseilles.
                
                ‘How soon can we get on to London?’ I asked.
                ‘Oh, I say, old fellow, can't you stop the night here. I'm beastly tired and
                    sea-sick,’ said Dickinson remonstratingly.
                I put my hand on his arm. ‘I know you are, but hold on another few hours.’
                ‘Few hours!’ groaned Dickinson from the back of the cab. ‘It's thirty at the
                    least. I hope you know that.’
                ‘Yes ... well, Paris, then ... for God's sake let's get away from here!’
                ‘Very good,’ said Dickinson resignedly; ‘let it be Paris, then, and we'll go on
                    by the one A.M. train. There I shall drop like a ton of bricks. Sleep for a
                    week, I think.’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III
                THE next six months, spent partly in Paris partly in London,
                    were six months lost, thrown away in dissipation that failed even in being
                    amusing, and in which I wasted as much money and strength as one could well do
                    in the time.
                Of course I made excuses for myself. No man, except sometimes in retrospection,
                    and sometimes under the influence of a great moral shock, will ever look his
                    conduct in the face.
                If he admits it is bad, he immediately marshals an illimitable number of excuses
                    to explain and justify the evil he is committing, until he has conclusively
                    proved that he is in reality but the passive and suffering martyr to the
                    surrounding circumstances.
                
                And my excuses seemed to me to be legion. I needed distraction. It was positively
                    necessary to me to forget, at any rate to conquer, the dishonourable passion for
                    another's wife.
                Anything that I could do was better than to encourage my present feelings, to
                    continue to think of her as I was thinking; and without distraction, without
                    diversion, it was impossible to drown the remembrance of her as it was obviously
                    my duty to do.
                As to the passion itself, I was greatly to be excused.
                I had been badly treated, unfairly used. Of course, if I had known the truth from
                    the first, the passion would never have been allowed to grow into being, etc.,
                    etc.
                Then, too, I realised so keenly that I had done my duty in the matter by
                    accepting my dismissal, that I felt I could allow myself a little license now,
                    for in the male moral code we make a little virtue go a long way.
                
                Besides, there was no doubt that there was but one method by which I could efface
                    Eurydice's image from my mind, blunt the edge of remembrance and steel myself to
                    indifference to her if it should chance that we met again.
                And now that the six months had dwindled down to their last few days, I sat alone
                    in the dining-room as the March afternoon closed in, with hosts and legions of
                    uncomfortable thoughts advancing upon me, silently, in whole armies of serried
                    battalions.
                They came in squadrons, the first cohorts supplied by the just past month, and
                    continually supplemented by detachments of recollections from each preceding
                    month, backwards to the very night I had left her on board.
                When I had sat down in the chair I had attempted to roll up a cigarette, but the
                    violent trembling of my shaky fingers had left it a simple impossibility, and
                    this sight of my weakness had been the signal
                    for the commencement of the march of that terrible army upon me.
                I looked round the room weighted down with depression. I hated the solitude but
                    yet felt too ill to go out of it. I leant farther back in the chair, and my eyes
                    travelled mechanically round and round the room in the growing dusk.
                It had every conceivable comfort and bore signs of, I might say, wealth. Yes, I
                    had means, money, and almost every other gift to make life acceptable, and yet
                    from six months' leave and idleness I had been unable to purchase more than at
                    the most two or three hours of pleasure.
                For pleasure, unfortunately, does not sell herself at a fixed price, and
                    enjoyment exists not in that which we enjoy, but in our capacity for enjoying,
                    just as not the food we eat, but only that which we digest, nourishes us.
                
                I got up after a time, crossed the room, my shadow falling huge and distorted on
                    the red and gilt paper in the firelight, pushed aside the velvet curtains
                    hanging across the door into the bedroom and entered the room.
                I was moved by an impulse of curiosity to see whether I looked as ill as I felt,
                    whether the relentless army that was invading and wounding my brain left visible
                    traces of its ravages.
                I walked up to the glass and from its dusky surface in the gathering gloom, my
                    own face looked back at me. I scrutinised it attentively with a cynical smile,
                    pallid, lined and seamed about the eyes, the lips livid, and all the vitality
                    gone out of it.
                Not much consoled, I strolled back again to the dining-room hearth, my resolution
                    to make some break in this sort of existence ratified by that glance in the
                    glass.
                I looked idly along the mantelpiece, and amongst
                    the letters lying there my eye caught a still unanswered invitation from the old
                    colonel of my former regiment to stay with him.
                I remembered he had a big place just out of Dover.
                ‘The very thing,’ I thought, and I sat down and wrote an acceptance of his offer
                    for a three weeks' stay.
                ‘It will make a break here at least,’ I thought. ‘Dickinson is such an awful
                    fellow for going the pace, and I am tired of keeping up with him.’
                The three weeks went by, and at their end, with a sense of relief, lined, as it
                    were, with boredom, I was coming back to town.
                As the train slid into the station, I drew back idly the curtain that had fallen
                    across the window-panes and looked down the platform.
                The electric light streamed from above on some scattered, moving figures, and a
                        warmer blaze from the bookstall fell on a
                    compact group nearer my end of the train.
                The knot loosened just as my carriage approached it, and one figure detached
                    itself and walked on down towards the refreshment-room.
                It was Eurydice.
                I knew it directly, though my gaze had not caught her face.
                But that gait was hers and hers alone, the same that had arrested my eyes as she
                    walked the length of the slippery, sloping deck; the same, the perfect balance
                    of the figure; the same, that erectness of the head.
                The very toilette was as distinctly hers—extremely quiet as to colour and
                    extremely smart as to cut; and how familiar the fall of that skirt, short enough
                    to let me see the incomparably tiny feet walking down the lighted platform.
                My heart rose suddenly, leapt with the same
                    violent pulse as when I had seen her the first morning on board.
                Keen pleasure ran through my tired brain and languid nerves, and I recoginised I
                    had been chasing it for the last six months in vain.
                I gripped my bag with one hand, unfastened the door with the other, and jumped
                    from the still-gliding train.
                She was walking slowly before me, and a few steps of mine brought me up to her
                    just as she passed beneath the central light.
                ‘Eurydice!’
                It was great cheek on my part to use her Christian name, but it was accidental,
                    and not intentional, cheek.
                It never passed into my brain nor came to my lips to say Mrs. Williamson, and
                    after all I don't know that it mattered.
                She turned suddenly, and we were face to face beneath the white, searching
                    light.
                
                That face!
                The light played over it and showed it to me in all its own familiar charm.
                The delicacy of the pallor, the brilliance of the eyes, and the long lines of the
                    eyebrows; I noted and recognised them all with a pained and eager delight; and
                    under the rolled-back velvet hat-brim one small, dark curl lay on her forehead
                    beneath her transparent veil.
                Our right hands were in each other's, our eyes locked together, and we said
                    nothing.
                Time, circumstance, position, resolutions, decisions, for those first few seconds
                    were not.
                We were the one woman and the one man in the world for each other, and we had met
                    again after absence.
                ‘Is this your luggage, sir?’
                The porter wheeled his truck close up beside us.
                I drew her to one side out of its way by her small, gloved hand, and I knew in
                    those few seconds that it had the same old
                    magnetism, the same curious electric power over my own nerves and frame as when
                    it had touched mine first.
                ‘Yes; that's mine,’ I said, hastily. ‘Look after it a minute, will you?’
                ‘Sorry, sir, it's against the regerlations. I can't stay by it, sir.’
                Damn! I thought. ‘Well, put it in the cloak-room, then. You can do that, I
                    suppose?’
                The porter nodded and turned the truck round.
                I still held my companion's dear little hand in mine. I looked down on her with a
                    smile.
                ‘What a fortunate chance to meet you here!’ I said, conventionality coming to my
                    aid and throwing a suffocating cloak over all my feelings, and giving them their
                    expression only in this one stereotyped phrase.
                And almost any other woman would have answered
                    me in the same language of convention.
                Eurydice, however, withdrew her hand from mine and said merely, ‘Fortunate!
                    What's the use of it?’
                Her tone was half hopeless, half impatient, and a still paler shade came across
                    her face.
                The words brought back upon my recollection all that had been forgotten for that
                    first instant.
                It was she, as usual, with her peculiar decision and clear mental vision who saw
                    the situation as it really was, not as it appeared to be.
                For me the meeting, at least in these first moments, was a simple pleasure; for
                    her, whose mind gripped only realities, and whose eyes it was impossible to
                    blind with illusions, the meeting was simply a vexation, useless, as she said,
                    and therefore worthless.
                She turned from me, and I thought she was
                    positively going to leave me without another word.
                ‘Where are you going now?’ I said hurriedly.
                She looked at me, with the familiar mocking laughter on her brilliant face, which
                    was her mask for everything.
                I had seen it drawn down over pain, weariness, and despair. She met the shocks
                    and the tedium of life, and she would meet the fear and horror of death with
                    that same careless smile.
                ‘To the refreshment-room,’ she said lightly, and walked on; and I walked beside
                    her.
                ‘And there is no use ...’ I said mechanically, ‘Nothing is changed?’
                ‘Nothing,’ she answered in a grave, inflexible voice, looking straight before her
                    up the platform.
                A few steps more, and we were at the refreshment-room doors.
                At the entrance stood a group of loose women
                    talking, and a vile expression reached us as we came up.
                Eurydice passed through them indifferently with an ‘allow me,’ and without a
                    shade upon her face. It was I that felt revolt for her as her skirt brushed
                    theirs.
                We found the room quite full. It was not long before the departure of the Dover
                    express, and a crowd of thirsty passengers had closed in round the counter.
                We pushed our way gradually through them to one end, and Eurydice leant her back
                    against the wall and laughed at my efforts to find her a chair.
                ‘It doesn't matter a bit,’ she said. ‘And there's really no space to sit down.
                    Get me the coffee; and what are you going to have for yourself?’
                ‘Coffee, I think, too,’ I said, and ordered for us both over the heads of a
                    couple of Germans, and then turned to look at her again at my ease.
                
                In the crush and the heat, with the careless gabble of voices round us, the
                    clatter of glasses and scent of drink from the bar, the blaze of light from
                    above and the tobacco smoke in the air, that calm, delicate face was singularly
                    striking.
                She noticed me scanning it eagerly, and her eyes softened in a smile as they
                    rested on mine.
                ‘Like the scratch suppers on board, isn't it?’ she said as we waited patiently
                    for the appearance of our coffee.
                ‘Yes,’ I answered without heeding her words, absorbed in noting the tired shades
                    beneath her eyes.
                ‘What have you been doing all these six months?’
                ‘Living at Wimbledon taking care of Mrs. Williamson. I am a model
                    daughter-in-law, you know.’
                ‘And wife!’ I murmured, and a line of scarlet
                    glowed suddenly in her cheeks and then died as suddenly.
                ‘And what have you been doing?’ she said, fixing her eyes upon me.
                I coloured suddenly. I felt the hot blood mount in a scalding stream to my very
                    eyes as I muttered ‘Nothing,’ and I turned from her to the counter and looked
                    anxiously for the cups of coffee.
                The memory of those six months came back upon me so horribly. They glared in such
                    contrast to her own.
                For six months she had been treading the clean narrow path of duty, temptations
                    passed, difficulties overcome, and I for those same months had been wandering
                    further into the mire of personal satisfaction, all temptations embraced, all
                    difficulties avoided.
                I could see as in a mirror held up to me what her days had been, pure and clear,
                    and filled with a wearying, unsatisfying virtue, dragging after each other in intolerable tedium, which she had had the
                    strength to endure and the will to live through, and mine seemed lost, as I
                    looked back, in a mist of mere degradation.
                ‘My dear fellow, I can see what you have been doing,’ she said in an undertone
                    with a suppressed laugh, and as I caught the mockery on the pale face and the
                    derision in her eyes I would have given more than I can say to be able to deny
                    her thoughts.
                ‘I never thought I should meet you again,’ I muttered lamely.
                ‘So it didn't matter.’
                ‘No; it is very extraordinary that two people, both living in or near town and
                    both going about a good deal, should ever meet! I admit that! Oh, here 's the
                    coffee.’
                She straightened her figure and turned to the counter and drew the two steaming
                    cups towards her. I watched her, and the 
                        know-
                        knowledge
                     ledge came to me suddenly that I
                    loved her now, as when we had parted.
                Dimly, in a vague, hurried way, I realised now that the past six months had done
                    nothing to deaden the passion, nothing to alter or weaken that; it was my will
                    to resist it that they had weakened.
                Like a man roused from his sleep, who feels hurriedly for his weapons of defence
                    to find them gone, I tried to recall all those feelings that I remembered had
                    moved me when I parted from her, but they were nowhere.
                I had no time for thought, for she kept asking me whether I liked three or four
                    lumps of sugar in my coffee, but I felt a confused sense of apprehension and
                    surprise that I could not define to myself.
                ‘Oh, three please, no more, and no milk ... Where are you staying now, then, in
                    town?’
                Her face was hidden by the coffee cup, but I
                    saw her eyebrows contract above the edge.
                ‘What does it matter where I am staying?’ she said as she set the cup down.
                ‘Mayn't I come and see you?’ I said, and I looked straight into her eyes and
                    wondered vaguely that my conscience did not reproach me, but it did not.
                A cold surprise came all over her face. She elevated her eyebrows.
                ‘What do you mean? Have you forgotten all that was said on board, settled and
                    decided and arranged?’
                ‘I don't know,’ I answered, looking down into the coffee and stirring it, and
                    that was strictly the truth.
                I remembered we had talked on board and made resolutions and decisions, and I had
                    suffered, and she had perhaps cried, but somehow I seemed to have forgotten all
                    that had prompted it, and why we had done it. Now as I looked at her, there seemed to have been no
                    necessity. In fact the necessities seemed to be all the other way.
                ‘I know I have not had an hour's pleasure since I last saw you.’
                She laughed slightingly.
                ‘I should be inclined to doubt that, but even if it were true, we're not here for
                    pleasure, you know: we're always told that.’
                The passengers round us had emptied themselves onto the platform, and the room
                    now was nearly empty.
                On a bench at our left side sat one man with an objectionable person drinking
                    brandy and water, and three men leant across the bar chaffing the gilt-haired
                    barmaid. A marble table at the far end was vacant and secluded.
                ‘Let us transfer ourselves,’ I said. ‘You must be tired of standing.’
                I carried the coffee to the table, and then drew a chair to it: she came up
                    slowly and sat down.
                
                ‘But why may I not come to see you, just once or twice?’ I persisted.
                She balanced her spoon idly on the edge of the cup, looked at me, and
                    laughed.
                ‘When one stands on the top of a hill, and one is particularly anxious not to
                    find oneself at the bottom, does one take the first few steps down the
                    declivity? It is very stupid if one does; then one has to go on against one's
                    will or turn and go back, and the little bit of hill behind one seems very
                    steep. We are both on the summit now, let us stop there.’
                ‘I don't know so much about that,’ I muttered. ‘I have been going downhill
                    steadily all these months, and shall go on, I suppose.
                ‘ Well, in any case you must go alone.’
                The tone was very cold, and, looking at her, I saw the old severity come into her
                    eyes and settle on her face.
                There was a long silence. She gazed past me
                    absently towards the gilt-haired creature leaning confidentially towards the
                    three male heads, this side of the counter.
                I looked at her face and studied the stamp of hopeless virtue on it.
                ‘Just as friends,’ I murmured at last, following up my own thoughts.
                She brought her eyes back to mine, and they flashed with cynical mockery.
                ‘Friendship is an illusion. Do please let us look life in the face.’
                ‘Nobody ever does,’ I said, limply.
                ‘I have always tried to. One does deceive and cheat oneself at times, but I
                    always try not to voluntarily.’
                ‘Still, let me come,’ I answered, hammering away at the point I wanted to gain
                    with the dull persistency of the male, and sliding away from the involved
                    metaphysical arguments she loved. I knew they were dangerous ground where one
                    often gets led into unconsciously admitting
                    the theoretical infamy of some practical step one is urging.
                It was all very well for Eurydice, she could always find her way about amongst
                    the sinuous windings of her talk, but I sometimes found myself left behind,
                    hopelessly entangled.
                ‘No.’
                ‘At least tell me where you are.’
                ‘But what is the good?’
                ‘Because,’ I said, flushing hotly and looking straight into the mocking eyes, ‘it
                    will show that you trust me. You know if you tell me not to come, I shall not
                    come. We don't fool with each other. A command from you and a promise from me is
                    a command and is a promise. Tell me your address, and say “Come” or “Don't
                    come,” and I shall obey, but I object to being treated as if you were a
                    coquette, or I could not be trusted.’
                ‘Oh, certainly, I trust you,’ she said quickly. ‘I am staying in rooms in Ebury Street,
                        
                        ’
                     and she added the number. ‘But my
                    express command to you is not to come, nor to try and see me in any way.’
                ‘Very good,’ I said sullenly, and there was a strained silence.
                She rose after a few minutes, and I started to my feet.
                ‘Are you going?’ I said.
                ‘Yes; I only came in here to order a book at the stall,’ she answered. ‘Will you
                    see me into a hansom?’ she added smiling, and we walked out together on to and
                    down the platform to the station yard. I put her into the hansom and gave the
                    address to the cabman. I closed the doors together across her knees, and then
                    leant forward upon the panels and fixed my eyes on her face. I gazed at it in
                    the blue sheet of light that fell on us from the station lamps, through the
                    murky, rain-filled air, and shone in the hansom doors, over which her face
                    looked out.
                
                It seemed as if I could never transfer my eyes: hers had a strange expression in
                    them: they were on mine, and dilated.
                I was startled by their gaze.
                Something of tenderness looked out of them, half-veiled in their usual
                    sorrow.
                The horse moved forward: she stretched out one small light-gloved hand: there was
                    a sudden impulsive leaning forward of her figure, a flash of her white cheek in
                    the light.
                ‘Come,’ she said.
                The whip fell, the horse plunged forward, there was a splash of muddy puddles, a
                    rattle of the wheels, and the cab bowled away through the glistening, rain-swept
                    station yard.
                I stood there on the kerb motionless, with that one word stinging my brain like a
                    bullet embedded there.
                Had she really said it? It seemed incredible. Had I imagined it? No; it sounded
                    in my ears still, her voice.
                
                ‘Come.’
                So she had given way, yielded. Was it possible? After the scornful hardness of
                    all her words to me to-night. After the inflexible resistance at our last
                    parting? Yes, but after six months. What was it? How was it? What influence had
                    worked this change in us? How was it that our strength had slipped from us? She
                    was as weak as I.
                And quick as a flash of light passes before the eyes, the thought struck my
                    brain, I did not condemn her for her weakness, did not even despise it. I was
                    indifferent. And I knew six months back I should have condemned her. I had loved
                    her then for her strength, been stung to an enthusiasm for her virtue, and now I
                    recognised that both were failing, and realised that their failure neither
                    pained nor shocked me.
                I stood there an indefinite time, with my brain in a whirl of surprised
                    confusion, shot through and through with
                    pleasure, and then turned half-mechanically back into the station to have a
                    drink and think it all over.
                I got my drink, and then stood turning the empty tumbler round and round upon the
                    counter, and staring absently at it while I tried to wrestle out the cause of
                    this change of phase.
                My own side of the problem was fairly easy. I saw now my six months' dissipation
                    had failed to destroy or even weaken in the slightest my love for her.
                And, granting this were so, the real effect that it had had, that of blunting my
                    moral susceptibilities and obscuring my judgment was comprehensible enough, but
                    why then in her should six months, spent in an entirely different, in fact,
                    directly opposite way, have produced exactly the same result?
                Could it be, I asked myself, that both Virtue and Vice are essentially tiring in
                    their nature? Could it be that the human being
                    is not fitted to sustain an extended course of either one or the other?
                In a natural state, he would alternate one with the other, and in this mixed
                    existence his moral character perhaps most fully develops and expands
                    itself.
                Was it possible that an enforced protracted course of virtue is really as
                    enfeebling, as enervating to the finer moral constitution as a course of
                    vice?
                Perhaps there is something attenuating to the mental fibres in long continued
                    virtue: the soul, the heart, the moral muscles become cramped by it: they are
                    deprived of all that movement and exercise natural to them, in the fervours of
                    repentance, passionate remorse and agonised regret consequent upon error, and
                    they degenerate as the body does, of which all its muscles are not brought
                    properly into play.
                Could it be that Eurydice had degenerated
                    during six months of immaculate virtue, as I had during six months of virtue's
                    opposite? Had she grown insensibly as tired of virtue as I of vice?
                Paradoxical as it might seem, our meeting with each other promised a radical
                    change to each of us.
                To me, sunk for six months in coarser forms of pleasure, my love for this woman
                    soared up before my mental vision as something brilliantly pure, even holy and
                    virtuous by contrast: a change almost from vice to virtue.
                To her, wearied of the absolute, colourless purity of her life, her love for me
                    seemed something terribly, fearfully guilty, a transition from virtue to
                    vice.
                Was this change that which had captivated her?
                The next moment I hated myself for thinking in this way of her. No, I told
                    myself, ten thousand times no. There was some other motive, but what?
                
                At last I broke up my reflections in sheer despair, finished hurriedly a fourth
                    whisky and soda, and came out on the platform. I collected my luggage from the
                    cloak-room, had it put on a hansom, and drove off to my rooms.
                When I came into the dining-room I found Dickinson there, extended in a long
                    chair, smoking and reading the Globe.
                ‘Hullo, old pally, got back?’ he said, looking round his paper, as I walked in
                    and flung my bundle of rugs on the sofa.
                ‘Got back, yes, and who on earth do you think I met at Victoria?’
                ‘Haven't a notion,’ returned Dickinson, whose thoughts ran constantly on unpaid
                    bills. ‘Your tailor?’
                ‘No.’
                ‘Your money-lender?’
                ‘No.’
                ‘Some Johnny you owe money to?’
                ‘No.’
                
                ‘Oh well, imagination won't stretch further—give it up.’
                ‘That girl I was so spoony on on board ship, Mrs. Williamson.’
                ‘Aha!’ said Dickinson, sitting up and looking interested. ‘Speak?’
                ‘Of course!’ I said, flushing and coming up to lean against the mantelpiece. ‘I
                    was not likely to see her and let the occasion slip!’
                ‘But I thought you had such a tragic good-bye on board, a sort of eternal adieu
                    business, eh?’
                ‘Yes, I know; but I always did think I'd been in a beastly hurry about it,’ I
                    said meditatively, looking down at the rug.
                ‘So that little arrangement has been knocked on the head now, I suppose?’ said
                    Dickinson, derisively. ‘Where's she staying? in town?’
                ‘Yes.’
                ‘Alone?’
                ‘Yes.’
                ‘Are you going to see her?’
                
                ‘Yes.’
                ‘Did she ask you?’
                ‘Yes.’
                Dickinson laughed. ‘I say, that's pretty thick, isn't it?’
                ‘I don't know what you imply,’ I said, annoyed. ‘I shall call, of course, like
                    any other ordinary acquaintance.’
                Dickinson folded up his paper and tossed it aside without replying, and I said
                    after a minute, following up the thread of my own thoughts. ‘That's a thoroughly
                    good woman, Reggie: one of the few women that are.’
                ‘And you're going to alter all that, I see, it's so old-fashioned. Bring her up
                    to date, reform her!’
                ‘On the contrary, she'll reform me,’ I said curtly. ‘I'm sure I need
                    reformation.’
                Dickinson looked as if he would have liked to contradict me, but his conscience
                    would not allow him to.
                
                ‘Have a peg, or anything?’ he said after a moment.
                ‘No, thanks; I had a series at the station.’
                ‘After the interview, I suppose! Well, what sport did you have in the
                    country?’
                ‘Oh the usual thing,’ I said, sitting down, and we talked and smoked until past
                    midnight.
                Sitting up late and passing an absolutely sleepless night did not prevent my
                    having energy enough to call upon Eurydice early the following afternoon: and I
                    strolled about the empty drawing-room I was shown into with a sort of delight at
                    the new atmosphere I was in.
                There seemed a restful peace, a tranquil virtue in the very air, in the white
                    light coming through the long lace curtains, in the straight-stemmed palms on
                    the different tables, in the slim, narrow-seated chairs and pale hard satin
                    couch.
                
                There was no scent in the air, not even of flowers: an unopened
                        Times lay on the table, and some books filled a case against
                    the wall. I walked over to these and examined them. Mostly Latin authors of the
                    irreproachable order, Martial and his school being missing; Greek seemed
                    represented by Sophocles and only one innocent volume of seductive and
                    reprehensible Plato. The rest were French philosophical books of the purest
                    kind, and English poetry.
                Yes; in this room everything seemed to speak of reposeful innocence, calm
                    clearness of mind and life, and to me, accustomed to bachelor haunts, rooms
                    dusky with smoke and furnished in decadent tints, with curious pictures behind
                    odd curtains, and peculiar looking books lying on the tables, with luxurious
                    ottomans and long lounging chairs, its cool simplicity made a sudden and
                    delightful change.
                
                I walked about, feeling all the ardour of first reform waking in me, and
                    beginning to toy with the new idea of virtue as delightedly as a child to play a
                    new game.
                After a minute or two Eurydice came in, and the white morning light fell full on
                    her face as she came up to me. It looked tired, with the unutterable tiredness
                    of life lived without love and without joy, a mental tiredness that no physical
                    fatigue can equal.
                ‘You have come very soon,’ she said, a smile seeming to light up the pallor of
                    her face as sunlight falling upon snow.
                ‘Of course,’ I said gravely, and we both stood silent, looking at each other: a
                    second perhaps or two: then Eurydice sat down in a wicker chair by the window
                    and I dropped into one opposite her.
                ‘I suppose you thought it very extraordinary, my asking you to come, last night,
                    after all I said; but when you told me about yourself and the life you had been living, I felt half responsible
                    for it ...’ she paused and turned her tired-looking gaze through the window.
                I waited, unwilling to interrupt her, listening, absorbed in listening for the
                    curious and beautiful voice to continue.
                ‘I felt,’ she went on with a sort of effort, ‘that if, as you said, seeing me and
                    knowing that you were coming to me would help you to live differently, it would
                    be the most selfish, cruel thing I could do to refuse. That was my reason for
                    saying come. I have your honour to trust to that it will be of some good to you,
                    some benefit; if not, as I said at first, I think we had better not see each
                    other.’
                She was still looking away from me, and there was no flush on her face and no
                    self-consciousness: it was as if she spoke on some grave and impersonal
                    matter.
                But I could not suddenly become so sublimely impersonal, and I glanced over
                        the reposeful figure in front of me with a
                    half-derisive smile.
                ‘There is,’ I said, with a sort of mocking assent, ‘a sentence in a celebrated
                    work—“Flee from temptation.”’
                Eurydice turned her head instantly, and the disdain in the light-filled eyes
                    reminded me of the flash from them that had nearly scorched me upon board
                    ship.
                ‘Yes,’ she answered, ‘and there is another sentence in that same celebrated work:
                    “Resist the devil and he shall flee.” That is the motto I have always taken.
                    Stand your ground, whatever the cost. Temptations are at every point. To flee
                    from one is to rush into another. Besides, supposing that you have fled
                    successfully hitherto before evil, and then you are called upon suddenly to meet
                    one from which you cannot flee, and from which there is no escape, how can you
                    resist, then, if you have no practice and no training? Whereas each one conquered gives you strength to meet the next. I
                    would say, “Never flee.” Embrace every temptation. Take it into your arms,
                    against your very breast, and kill it there. Strangle it, and then throw it away
                    from you, and continue your own path in life unmoved.’
                She sat up facing me. The pallor and dense fatigue had fallen like a mask from
                    her face. The power and force of intellect seemed set upon her brow, looking out
                    of her eyes, playing like sudden light all over the transfigured
                    countenance.
                Opposite me, in this hum-drum little drawing-room, against the white curtains,
                    looked back at me a face gleaming with rapt enthusiasm, as a martyr's and
                    saint's may have looked up from the stake to heaven, or across the flare of the
                    kindling faggots.
                I sat and looked, and couldn't help thinking, if in this case I were the
                    temptation, I shouldn't object to being taken
                    into her arms, even to be strangled and thrown away afterwards!
                ‘What can your life be worth,’ she added, ‘spent in running away from
                    temptations?’
                ‘How would it be to yield to them all?’ I said, with a smile.
                She stared at me for a moment in silence, and slowly a look of horror gathered in
                    her expanding eyes.
                ‘Evelyn! What has come over you? Since we parted I can't understand...’
                She got up and pushed her chair back with with one slight white hand.
                It seemed as if that hand had grown whiter, more transparent, than when I had
                    seen it last.
                I got up, too, and walked nervously up and down the room.
                How I admired the woman now, as always! How all my moral being went out in
                    devotional worship to the moral beauty of hers!
                
                ‘I don't know,’ I said shortly. ‘I think I have come to see that there's no use
                    in doing one's duty, no use in clinging to theories and ideas. You admit that
                    there is nothing before and after life; well, I can find deuced little in it.
                    Oughtn't we to make the most of that little? Sin! What is sin? Is anything a sin
                    that makes this existence more tolerable?’
                I stopped short in front of her. I felt my face whitening with excitement and a
                    mist rising before my eyes. I had not meant to say anything of the sort when I
                    came.
                I was surprised dimly myself at the emotion growing in my brain.
                She looked back at me, white, too, with the passion of impersonal argument that
                    touches closely one's personal life and conduct.
                ‘No sin can render existence more tolerable,’ she exclaimed. ‘It lays a still
                    heavier burden upon life. In the scales of sin moments of joy are weighed against months and years of misery!’
                We stood looking at each other, everything, ourselves included, forgotten in the
                    heat and crush of our thoughts, just as in the old word battles on board, and in
                    the second's pause that followed her last sentence the door was opened and the
                    servant entered with a tray of tea things, which she methodically began to
                    arrange on a side table.
                We both laughed and subsided into our chairs. The prosaic detail of every-day
                    life obtruding itself at that moment dissipated the passionate enthusiasm of our
                    argument, and when the servant left, Eurydice crossed the room to make the tea,
                    with some light, commonplace remark, as if unwilling to re-open the
                    discussion.
                We talked on, mere conventional trivialities making up our conversation, and
                    after perhaps half an hour I rose to go.
                Eurydice, as she shook hands with me, looked
                    straight into my eyes with the clear, penetrating light of the soul gleaming in
                    her own.
                ‘Then tell me,’ she said quietly and without preface, ‘will it be any benefit to
                    you to come here occasionally? Will it help you?’
                ‘Yes,’ I said meekly. ‘It will be like going to church.’
                Eurydice smiled the faintest shadow of a smile.
                ‘I have your promise, while you come,’ she added seriously, ‘while you are my
                    friend, that you will try to lead the best life possible to you? This is the
                    condition of your coming here, and I have your word of honour you will keep
                    it?’
                ‘Yes,’ I said merely, but I think she was satisfied.
                There was a momentary pause, and then I said gravely, ‘Your example is not quite
                    thrown away, I know your own life is a martyrdom.’
                
                ‘No,’ she said quietly, and a divine contentment seemed to descend upon the pale
                    face and a fresh strength and resolution play round the cold lips. ‘No; say
                    rather an infinite peace.’
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV
                WITHIN the course of the next five weeks I had seen Eurydice
                    perhaps six or seven times, calling at her house once, and rarely twice, in the
                    week. Her manner was kind, and gentler, it seemed to me, than formerly; the old
                    mocking spirit had nearly died out of it, but there was a distance, a long, long
                    distance, in that manner, a coldness in that gentleness, that was very slight
                    and delicate, but which chilled like the first breath of winter that stirs
                    insidiously through the warm autumnal air.
                I had kept my promise to her, of course, and for the last five weeks my life had
                    been an exemplary one, and I knew it rendered her happier to see the influence for good that she
                    possessed over me.
                But the reform was not a radical nor a deep-seated one, since no reform enforced
                    or induced by outside circumstances can be so. The very soul of all true
                    self-reform is in personal revolutionary ardour which can prompt and sustain the
                    reformation, independent of and in spite of outside influences. All other
                    self-reform is a mere counterfeit.
                And the command this stronger mind and higher moral nature exerted over me was
                    beginning to weary me, and I longed now to escape from it.
                While the privilege was still denied me I had been eager to be allowed to see her
                    and know her as a mere acquaintance, but now that I had gained it I found that
                    she was right.
                As she had predicted, acquaintanceship was unsatisfactory and friendship an
                    illusion, and the upshot of my reflections, as I flung away the cigar end and glanced round the darkening room,
                    found expression in the resolution:
                ‘It's slow. Cut it.’
                Then I turned to the neglected paper, took it up, and glanced through the divorce
                    cases by way of distraction.
                At dinner that night I talked with Dickinson in a desultory way of change and
                    travel; then I hinted that I wanted a change, thought town life getting rather
                    long, remarked our leave was half through, and we neither seemed much the better
                    for it, and wound up by asking if he didn't think a trip out as far as Gib, say,
                    to start with, would do him a lot of good?
                And Dickinson, who certainly is a most good-hearted, obliging and convenient
                    fellow, fell in with the proposal at once.
                I did not tell Eurydice anything of my decision or views. I had made up my own
                    mind as to what was best to do, and formed my own resolution, and it was not
                    till all our preparations were made and I was
                    at her place for the last time, or the last time but one, that I determined to
                    tell her.
                I did not mean to make a tragic good-bye of it, nor conjure up the passionate
                    phase of feeling we had parted in on board.
                We had been meeting as ordinary acquaintances, on the terms of conventional
                    politeness, for over a month; these were the only terms we could be on. Then let
                    them stand now.
                ‘Heroics don't suit our modern everyday existence,’ I thought idly, as I lounged
                    on the settee in her softly-shaded room, smoking—for she allowed me to
                    smoke—cigarettes, and watched through half-closed lids the woman opposite me, on
                    the other side of the little bamboo tea-table.
                It was four o'clock; the April sun slanted warmly through the lowered venetians,
                    played amongst the blue egg-shell china, and caressed the white hands moving the
                    cup in the tray.
                
                It glinted too irritatingly on the plain gold circlet of the left hand third
                    finger, and struck out venomous-looking green and blue stabbing rays from the
                    diamond guard above.
                ‘She is rather of the heroic order though,’ I thought on; ‘that's the worst of
                    her,’ and my eyes travelled from the hands upwards over the slight figure to the
                    delicate face with its tranquil eyebrows, and its expression of serene,
                    indifferent repose.
                ‘I'm leaving England very shortly,’ I said, after there had been silence for a
                    few minutes.
                ‘Oh, really? Why?’
                ‘No particular reason,’ I returned carelessly. ‘I feel I want a change, that's
                    all.’
                ‘When are you going?’
                ‘Next week. I've settled to leave Wednesday. Going to Gibraltar with Dickinson.
                    We shall use up the rest of our leave out there, I expect.’
                I watched her face closely as I spoke, but not
                    a muscle changed nor an eyelash quivered. The next second she leant a little
                    forward and gently stirred the fire.
                ‘Ah, and then go on to India from there?’ she said quietly.
                I nodded.
                I certainly had not thought when I came that I wanted or even expected her to be
                    moved or seem distressed at my departure, but I knew now that I must have had
                    some such anticipation, from the vexed annoyance and disappointment I felt as I
                    met her expression now, which was simply three parts indifferent and one part
                    resigned.
                The involuntary resentment against it was so keen that when I had risen to go,
                    and she said as her hand lay in mine, ‘Shall I see you again, then, before you
                    leave?’ a curt negative came to my lips and I should have uttered it, but an
                    accent of tender sadness on the words made me hesitate.
                
                ‘Of course, if you wish it,’ I said gravely instead, and stood waiting for her to
                    speak again.
                She looked absently through the window by which we were standing for a few
                    seconds before replying.
                ‘Mrs. Denvers is dining with me on Monday night,’ she said at last, ‘and we are
                    going to the Sonnambula afterwards, would you and Mr. Dickinson care to come
                    with us—or perhaps you are too busy?’
                ‘No; we shall be very pleased indeed,’ I answered quietly.
                ‘Come, then,’ she said with a charming smile, withdrawing her hand. We exchanged
                    good-nights, and then I left her.
                When I told Dickinson on my return of her invitation, and my acceptance of it for
                    him, he made some impolite remarks and told me that he couldn't come.
                Pressed as to the reason, he confessed he had a
                    seat at the Alhambra for that night to take a farewell view of a young person
                    engaged there in whom he was interested.
                I was slightly annoyed, as he would have paired Mrs. Denvers and left Eurydice to
                    me, and, as it was, I should have the two women thrown upon my hands.
                ‘However, perhaps it's as well,’ I concluded philosophically.
                ‘Three is a safer number than four.’
                On Monday I drove round to Eurydice's house a little before the dinner-hour.
                When the maid let me in she seemed slightly agitated, and said with a little
                    flutter:
                ‘Please, sir, Mrs. Williamson had a telegram just now, and she dressed again and
                    went out, and she told me to say if you came before she got back that she didn't
                    expect to be very long.’
                I listened to this somewhat confused statement and then nodded and passed into
                    the drawing-room.
                
                Here I strolled about restlessly, feeling a nervous irritation throughout my
                    whole system, and a sort of mental nausea against life in general and one's duty
                    in particular.
                ‘I wish I were out of it and on my way to Gib,’ I muttered two or three times as
                    I passed about amongst the fragile tables with their lamps under coloured shades
                    or top-heavy palms in ridiculously small pots.
                But somehow I don't think I was genuinely so very anxious to be on my way to
                    Gib.
                I had only been in the room perhaps about ten minutes when light hurried steps
                    came up the stairs and Eurydice entered the room.
                She was dressed in her walking things, a plain black skirt, a tight-fitting black
                    velvet jacket with a high collar buttoned tightly round her white throat, and a
                    small felt hat.
                The night was wet, and the damp chill air had sent a flush to the smooth cheek
                    and scarlet to the lips.
                
                She came forward to me with a smile of greeting, a creature brilliant with
                    life.
                ‘I am so sorry,’ she said, ‘Mrs. Denvers is very ill and cannot come. Where is
                    your friend?’ she added hastily.
                ‘He sent his extreme regrets, but he had a previous engagement,’ I answered, and
                    then there was a sudden pause of a moment, and our eyes met each other with a
                    certain conscious embarrassment as we realised we were alone together for the
                    rest of the evening.
                Here was a situation which we had neither of us sought, which we had both tried
                    to avoid, and we both knew that the other had wished to avoid it, and yet there
                    was no obvious reason for not accepting it now that chance had thrown us into
                    it.
                There was clearly no good nor even plausible excuse for withdrawing, and I can't
                    say that I felt any great inclination to withdraw at that moment, while probably Eurydice with her stern view
                    of facing life's perplexities and her perfect confidence in her own strength
                    would not admit even to herself that in the position there was any danger to the
                    equanimity of either of us.
                Her next words proved this.
                The momentary embarrassment passed out of her eyes: she took her hat off and
                    threw herself into an easy-chair.
                ‘Yes, Mrs. Denvers is very bad—sit down, won't you? an inflamed eye, iritis, the
                    doctor says. I only heard it just as I'd finished dressing for dinner, and then,
                    as her wire did not say what was wrong, I felt I must go round and see her.’
                ‘It was very good of you to take all that trouble,’ I remarked.
                ‘I am very fond of her,’ she answered simply, and added after a minute, ‘I
                    thought I should have been back sooner. Will you excuse this state of undress? I don't think there's time to
                    change back again now.’
                ‘You could not look more charming than you do,’ I said quietly.
                There was silence for a few minutes; she looked into the fire, and I looked at
                    her and thought over the incident.
                It was slight in itself, but slight as it was it indicated the character, the
                    mind, the soul that animated that lovely frame.
                Almost every other woman, certainly all the other women I had known on such an
                    occasion as this—the farewell visit of a man who, they knew, admired them, to
                    put it mildly—would have made every effort to stimulate him to the sentiments
                    they nominally forbade, and certainly one of the efforts would have been to make
                    their most elaborate and fascinating toilet.
                They would, obeying their sense of duty, very possibly have dismissed him, but
                    they would have wished him to go with a disordered brain and a torturing image of them stamped in his
                    memory.
                But Eurydice was different from these, and the thought of her carelessly thrown
                    aside dinner dress, the simple way she had appeared before me, her resignation
                    to her own sorrow, and the fact that even in such a moment her thoughts could
                    pass so readily from her own affairs to sympathy with another, touched me. My
                    eyes softened as I looked at her. She was a woman of worth. We ate little at
                    dinner, and talked even less. She made no reference whatever to my leaving, and
                    her complete and passive acceptance of it, without dispute and without
                    complaint, gradually produced in me an unreasonable annoyance.
                One may respect an emotion, as one may respect a person, and yet be excessively
                    irritated by either, and my feeling of admiration was pretty well swallowed up
                    in irritation by the end of dinner.
                
                When we rose from the table Eurydice walked across to the window. ‘It's a very
                    wet night,’ she remarked, holding the blind aside and looking out. ‘Ah! here
                    comes the brougham. Now, what time is it?’ she asked, turning back into the
                    room. ‘Nine. It's late, as usual.’
                She crossed over to the mantelpiece, picked up her little felt hat from the easy
                    chair, and set it on her head before the glass. I watched her with a smile,
                    knowing she must be acting in sheer absence of mind, and rather pleased to note
                    this first sign of mental distraction.
                It was not till we were seated side by side in the brougham, and she leant her
                    head against the back, that she became conscious she had the hat on.
                ‘Why, what a maniac I am!’ she exclaimed, with a laugh, taking it off and tossing
                    it on to the opposite seat. ‘And you watched me put it on!’ she added, turning
                    to me, her face brilliant between mock anger
                    and laughter, ‘deliberately—you horror!’
                ‘Well, I thought you were a little absent-minded,’ I returned, smiling.
                ‘Yes; I was thinking about Mrs. Denvers,’ she replied simply, growing
                    serious.
                ‘Dash Mrs. Denvers!’ I thought.
                ‘That's the comfort of a box,’ she said, leaning back in her corner. ‘You can go
                    dressed as you please.’
                Doubtless because it was the last night, Eurydice seemed more attractive to me
                    this last night than ever before.
                As we passed through the vestibule, flooded with white light and crowded with
                    pretty women, I threw a cursory glance round, and then let my eyes return and
                    rest on my companion. Her simple afternoon toilette seemed out of place, I
                    admit, in this crush of silks and glisten of jewellery on bare flesh, and there
                    were many astonished glances and supercilious
                    smiles at it, but the face above was without a rival in the whole hall, and I
                    felt a strange mixture of emotions as I saw the contemptuous shoulder-liftings
                    of the women at her dress and the lingering glances of the men at her face as
                    she passed. I knew—I saw for myself—that it was not any extraordinary perfection
                    of feature or colouring that raised it so far above the level of all the
                    handsome worldly faces round us, but that remarkable expression of peace, of
                    serene tranquillity, which seemed to rest upon the forehead as light rests upon
                    a lake—the calm, conscious pride that looked out of the luminous eyes. Amongst
                    all these faces, stamped variously with conceit, inanity, or discontent, but all
                    marked alike with some trace of this world's fret of anxiety, hers, in its
                    absolute repose, seemed something almost startling, positively holy.
                And the repose was not that of vacuity, it seemed the repose born of a chastened
                        mind, in which all earthly, passions have
                    been subdued, and which can view the present with indifference and the future
                    with resignation.
                She looked a woman at peace with all the world, and at peace with her own
                    conscience, and in that peace proud and secure.
                And as I looked at her two great impulses rose simultaneously within me, but the
                    better conquered, and I felt glad I was going to Gib.
                Just at the entrance to the vestibule there was a small flower-stall laden, piled
                    up with a profusion of flowers, loose, and made up into sprays and button-holes.
                    I saw Eurydice glance over it, and I took her arm and drew her across to it.
                ‘Choose some,’ I said, ‘and let me get them for you. What shall it be?’
                She smiled, and glanced over the stall, and I saw her eyes resting meditatively
                    on some lilies of the valley, gathered into a spotless sheaf on one side of the
                    table.
                
                ‘No,’ I said suddenly; ‘I'm not going to let you have those. I'll choose for
                    you,’ and I leant towards the stall and took four damask roses that stood
                    glowing in a china bowl.
                They were dark, almost to blackness, and their thick petals turned outwards,
                    glossy, with velvet-like bloom.
                ‘How much?’ I said to the girl selling them, and paid her, and then turned and
                    gave the flowers to Eurydice.
                She took them and looked at me jestingly, with half-lowered lids.
                ‘As you've chosen them for me, perhaps you'll direct where I am to wear them,’
                    she said, laughing.
                ‘I'll put them in in a minute, not here, in the box,’ I answered, and with the
                    colour heightened in both our faces we turned towards the staircase.
                When we entered our box the house was three-quarters full. The lights were not
                        yet fully turned up, and a faint mist
                    hovered in the dim atmosphere over the auditorium and clung round the drawn
                    curtains of the yet unfilled boxes and the gilding of the gallery.
                I glanced down through the misty space and saw the lines of women filing slowly
                    into the stalls, and then turned my eyes back into the secluded darkness of our
                    box.
                She had taken a seat beside the window where she would face the stage behind the
                    hanging curtain, and from the shade and across the shadows her eyes met
                    mine.
                I felt a dangerous sense of pleasure stir suddenly within me as I looked back
                    into them, a keen, reckless enjoyment of the moment, and I leant forward and
                    took the flowers from her lap.
                ‘May I? will you let me?’
                She did not answer, but bent forward with a sort of impulsive submission, and,
                    feeling all the old magnetism that the personality of this particular woman exerted upon me, rushing through my
                    veins, I fastened two of the roses at her breast.
                ‘Turn your head a little,’ I said, and she turned it obediently. There, where her
                    dark hair lay in a silken mass against the white throat, I fixed the remaining
                    two flowers, twisting the stems into her hair and fastening them with one of her
                    own pins. Honestly, I tried to touch her as little as possible in the action,
                    but twice my hand came in contact with her throat, inclined so submissively
                    towards me, and for one moment a violent impulse to abuse that submission rose
                    in me.
                I controlled it, and when the roses were fastened, I threw myself back into the
                    opposite seat and leaned forward, looking down into the sea of space below which
                    swam dizzily before me. ‘How I love her!’ I thought passionately, feeling the
                    glow of her neck still under my fingers.
                
                ‘And how hopeless it is! ... I'm going ... well it's safer so! This is the last
                    time, I swear!’
                And because it was the last time, and I knew it, I gave myself up with a sense of
                    security to the enjoyment of the hour. What did it matter? It was quite safe! I
                    was going!
                My conscience was at ease because I had elected and chosen my duty, and these
                    last few hours would fortify me to carry it through. Who grudges the condemned
                    his last draught of brandy before he goes to the scaffold?
                Sobered a little, I leant back in the box again. I knew in a vague way Eurydice
                    had been murmuring words of thanks or something, but I had not heard them.
                ‘Very full, isn't it?’ she said, referring to the house, as I sat back.
                ‘Will be, I think,’ I answered, and at that moment, with a sudden blaze, the
                    lights were turned fully on throughout the
                    house, and the orchestra burst into the overture.
                The wave of sound came up to us, and now in the strong light Eurydice looked
                    across at me, a smile parting her brilliant lips. ‘Remember the café at Port Said?’ she said, and I felt a choking
                    sensation in my throat as I turned my eyes from hers.
                ‘Yes, I remember,’ I said gloomily.
                In the café at Port Said she had been mine.
                    Mine in thought, in hope, in anticipation.
                And as the strains of the violins rose and fell and swelled through the brilliant
                    light-flooded house, how I longed for the white-washed walls, the smoking
                    oil-lamps, the blatant, strident music, and the narrow benches of the Egyptian
                        café with those hopes again. ‘Programme!
                    Programme!’ came sharply through the door as the boy came down the corridor, and
                    in another moment he pushed our door open. ‘Programme, sir?’ I bought a couple and the libretto, and laid them on her
                    knees, crossed lightly one over the other in her usual fashion, one little foot
                    swinging, one elbow leaning on the velvet edge of the box, and her chin
                    supported on her hand as she gazed at the house.
                She looked up with a smile.
                ‘Thanks; and now get me some chocolates, will you, and I shall be satisfied!’
                I smiled too: making these small purchases for her was delightful to me, and I
                    believe she knew it.
                I went myself into the corridor and found an attendant, despatched her for the
                    chocolates and returned to the box.
                When the woman came back, she brought a tray of different confections and boxes
                    of bon-bons, and I persuaded Eurydice to choose first one and then another till
                    the tray was considerably lightened.
                ‘Well, it's an improvement on Egypt, isn't it?’
                    she said, bursting open a box of chocolates and putting the dark sweetmeat
                    between her glistening teeth.
                ‘I don't know—yes, as far as the music goes,’ I answered.
                She looked at me with elevated brows and then laughed.
                ‘In all respects, I should say,’ she returned, turning over the sweets in the box
                    with her soft fingers, and apparently intent upon them.
                ‘All perhaps except one,’ I said with savage insistence.
                ‘And what's that? do you miss the mosquitos?’ she answered, with a lovely jesting
                    smile.
                ‘You were not wearing that ring in Egypt,’ I said, more bitterness and more
                    passion coming into my tone than I meant to come.
                Eurydice half rose from her seat.
                ‘One word more like that and I shall go home,’ she said indignantly.
                
                ‘Oh, forgive me!’ I said imploringly, and she sat down again and looked away to
                    the stage.
                The hours passed, and the brilliant scenes seemed to hurt my sore eyes as I
                    looked, and the swelling ripples and the falling cascades of music to wound my
                    sore ears as I heard.
                I saw and heard mechanically, thinking of the cruelty of Life: that great sandy,
                    stony, waterless desert, with its shifting mirage of happiness ever before the
                    traveller's eyes, eyes blinded, scorched, and quenched, by the pitiless dust of
                    the struggles in its arid ways.
                But still I felt master of myself, possessed of that same sort of control which
                    nerves a man to go through with fortitude the last remaining portion of a
                    torturing and prolonged operation: to treat this woman gently and reverently in
                    these few last hours, and then to leave her, was the part I had assigned to
                    myself, and I was acting with the same dogged satisfaction in my own pain that a man has sometimes in tearing away or
                    rearranging the agonised flesh of a gunshot wound.
                The drive back to Ebury Street was made in perfect silence. Eurydice sat beside
                    me and leant back as if fatigued. I looked through the open window into the damp
                    black streets.
                She let herself in with her latch key and we stood together on the steps. As she
                    opened the door, and when I was going to hold out my hand to say a formal
                    good-bye, she uttered a sharp exclamation of surprise. I followed her glance
                    into the hall, and saw it piled up with luggage: ship luggage evidently, covered
                    over with red and white labels and marked ‘Cabin, Wanted,’ on all sides in
                    chalk. ‘Major Williamson,’ printed in white on the topmost trunk caught my
                    eye.
                ‘He has returned!’ Eurydice said simply, looking at me, and there was hardly any
                    emotion on her face. ‘He likes to take me by
                    surprise like this!’ she said with a faint smile. ‘He has done so before.’
                I could not speak for the moment. I hardly realised now the situation.
                Williamson come back! Her husband here in the very drawing-room above! and I had
                    thought him four thousand miles distant!
                I stared at the heap of luggage until it seemed to jump before my eyes.
                Eurydice seemed neither distressed nor moved, nor in any way confused.
                ‘You ... you didn't expect him?’ I said, looking at her, and noting the unmoved
                    calm of her face.
                ‘No; I did not, not in the least,’ she answered. ‘But he is always welcome to
                    come home at any time. I am always prepared for him.’ She had had difficulty in
                    extricating the key from the lock, but she drew it out now and added: ‘You will
                    come up and see him, won't you?’
                
                ‘Oh no, no, thanks, I'd rather not,’ I rejoined hastily.
                ‘Why?’ asked Eurydice, regarding me with quiet eyes.
                ‘Oh, well, it's late, and—er ... so on, I'll say good-bye now.’
                She did not seek to detain me.
                ‘Very well,’ she said gently, ‘Good-bye.’
                She held out her hand and I took it and held it reverently, and some impulse
                    unlocked my lips and swept away the hesitating confusion of a moment ago.
                ‘Believe me, you have always at least my greatest, deepest sympathy.’
                She withdrew her hand and smiled the old glad triumphant smile. ‘I have no need
                    of it. I am happier than you think. I am going back to my duty. Trust me: there
                    is nothing to live for in life but that, good-bye.’
                ‘Good-bye.’
                I turned to go.
                
                She came to the steps.
                ‘I hope you'll have a pleasant voyage to Gib.’
                ‘Thank you.’
                The door was closed. I stood and looked up at the windows above me for a few
                    seconds until I saw a slim shadow fall across the yellow blind; it passed, I saw
                    no more, and I walked away homewards, thinking.
            
            THE END
            Printed by T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to Her Majesty at the Edinburgh
                University Press
        
    
