
     ----CITATION----
        Nesbit, E. (Edith) (1858-1924). These Little Ones. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 212 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7173
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                BY THE SAME AUTHOR
                
                    FICTION
                    SALOME AND THE HEAD
                    THESE LITTLE ONES
                    THE INCOMPLETE AMORIST
                    THE RED HOUSE
                    GRIM TALES
                    THE LITERARY SENSE
                
                
                    CHILDREN'S BOOKS
                    THE TREASURE SEEKERS
                    THE WOULDBEGOODS
                    FIVE CHILDREN AND IT
                    THE PHŒNIX AND THE CARPET
                    THE ENCHANTED CASTLE
                    THE HOUSE OF ARDEN
                
            
            
                
                    THESE LITTLE ONES
                
                BY E. NESBIT
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY SPENCER PRYSE
                
                    LONDON:
                    GEORGE ALLEN & SONS
                        156, CHARING CROSS ROAD
                
                1909
                [All rights reserved]
                
                
                    Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO.
                    At the Ballantyne Press, Edinburgh
                
            
            
                
                TO ALICE HOATSON WITH E. NESBIT'S LOVE
            
            
                
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE THREE MOTHERS 1
                    II. JOHN OF THE ISLAND 23
                    III. THE ASHPITS 45
                    IV. HOW JAKE WENT HOME 63
                    V. THE DOG-DREAM 89
                    VI. THE CRIMINAL 105
                    VII. THE LEFT-HANDED SWORD 119
                    VIII. THOR AND THE HAMMER 137
                    IX. THE LITTLE CHAP 165
                    X. LUCY 181
                
            
        
        
            
            
                
                    “... Whoso shall offend one of these little ones ...it were better for him
                        that a millstone were hanged about his neck and that he were drowned in the
                        depths of the sea.”
                
            
            
                
                I
                THE THREE MOTHERS
                
                THE THREE MOTHERS
                THE hearse and the mourning-coach went out at a demure foot-pace; they
                    came back at a trot that was almost gay. It did not matter. The hearse was now
                    only a smart empty showcase, bright with plate-glass and silvered fittings; and
                    in the mourning-coach the mother sat alone.
                This was the end.
                When she should be once more in the empty house she might cry, scream, laugh, go
                    mad. Nothing would make any difference. There was no one to be awakened. There
                    was no white presence that must be lapped in silence and horrible flowers. The
                    cook and the maids had brought the flowers. Her gift to the dead had been the
                    silence.
                They were talking about her in the warm, pleasant kitchen, where the fire glowed
                    redly, and tea and toast scented the air.
                
                “Poor soul,” said the cook, “but she's borne up wonderful, I must say.”
                “Heartless,” was the housemaid's epithet; and she added, “She might have cried a
                    bit when they carried it out, if only for the look of the thing.”
                “You don't understand,” said the cook heavily. “You'll see, she'll break down
                    soon as ever she gets back from the burying. I shouldn't wonder if she was to go
                    right off of her head, or something.”
                “Ain't she got never a friend to turn to, a time like this?” asked the cook's
                    niece, who had dropped in to tea.
                “Not a single one, if you'll believe me. It's my belief she's done something she
                    hadn't ought, and this is a judgment on her. Sin always comes home to roost.” So
                    the housemaid.
                “You be quiet with your texts,” the cook admonished; “if you come to texts,
                    people that live in glass houses shouldn't quote Scripture. I know more about
                    you than you think, my lady.”
                
                The parlourmaid flushed and scowled.
                “No, but,” said the niece, “hasn't she really got e'er a friend?”
                “Father dead,” said the cook. “Mother in India 'long of her other friends.
                    Husband burnt to death under her very nose, as you might say, just before the
                    baby came. Only married a year when he was taken. And now the baby. Cruel hard,
                    I call it.”
                “She tell you all that?” the housemaid sneered.
                “Not she! Catch her telling us anything. She's a good mistress, she is, and quite
                    the lady. Keeps herself to herself.”
                “Then how . . .?”
                “She's got a book,” said the cook, only very slightly embarrassed, “a die-airy,
                    where you writes down what happens every day. I jest happened to glance into it
                    one day I was doing the dining-room grate—not knowing what it was, d'you
                    see?”
                “She'll marry again all right,” said the niece.
                “With that face?” said the housemaid.
                
                The niece asked how she came to be like that, and the cook told her.
                “It was the fire, what her good gentleman lost his life in. She was near done for
                    herself. Wishes to God she had been—in the book, I mean. Ah, she's had some
                    trouble, she has.” The written record of another woman's agony was poignant even
                    in remembrance, and the cook sniffed. “Well, God help us all's what I say. There
                    she is. I'll make her a nice cup of tea.”
                But the woman who had lost everything left the tea on the table in the
                    dining-room, where the clock ticked, “Emp-ty, emp-ty, emp-ty,” and wandered
                    through the house. And still she kept silence. There was the room where the
                    child had lived—its cot, its soft woolly toys, its little gowns. And the room
                    where it had lain dead, among the flowers and the silence, and the scent of
                    camphor and eau de Cologne.
                “Nothing,” she said, “nothing, nothing. I suppose,” she said, dry-eyed and
                    detached, “I suppose I ought to cry. Or pray, perhaps?” She fell on her knees by the bed; it was an
                    experiment.
                But no tears came and no prayers. Only the insistent silence filled her ears and
                    battered at her brain.
                “Oh, my baby, my baby!” she said, and a sob caught in her throat. But she did not
                    cry.
                So then she got up from her knees like one with a purpose new-born, and went very
                    quickly and quietly down the stairs and out at the front door. It slammed behind
                    her.
                “There! If she 'asn't gone out! To make away with herself, I shouldn't wonder,”
                    said the housemaid, in pleasant excitement.
                “You oughter let the police know,” said the niece.
                “You leave her be,” said the cook. “I don't know as it wouldn't be the best thing
                    for her, poor thing. What's she got to live for?”
                “I call that heathen, that's what I call it,” said the housemaid; “it's sinful to
                    make away with yourself, whatever goes wrong.
                    It's our duty to bear whatever's laid upon us.”
                “Ah,” said the cook, “it's easy enough to see you've never 'ad
                    nothing to bear. If she comes back I'll make a excuse to go up and say a kind
                    word. You see if I don't.”
                “I do wonder where she's gone, though,” said the housemaid.
                “It'll be in all the papers if she does make away with herself,” the parlourmaid
                    pointed out.
                “If you ever get in the papers,” said the cook, “it won't be for
                    anything so 'armless and innocent. So now you know. I'd give a crown to be sure
                    that she ain't come to no 'arm.”
                She had not come to any harm. Only after a blind treading of bleak pavements, and
                    streets where an unkind wind blew, she had come to wide steps and lamps, a heavy
                    swing-door through which a priest had just passed. She was not a Catholic, not
                    even a Christian. The early days of her life had been too sweet for her to need
                    peace; the later days too bitter for her to find
                    it. But the gnawing chill of the December evening drove her, without any
                    conscious will of hers, towards the shaft of light that had shown as the door
                    opened. In there it would be warm and quiet. And it would not be the house where
                    the child had lived and died.
                She went up the steps, and as she went a hand touched her and some one spoke low
                    in her ear.
                “Lady, lady, won't you spare me a trifle? I 'aven't tasted food since yesterday
                    morning—so 'elp me God, I haven't!”
                She turned. A woman stood beside her—very shabby, very pale, with a horrible
                    flattened hat and dreadful clothes. In her arms, under a shawl thin as a nun's
                    veil, she held a baby.
                “You're luckier than I am,” said the woman, whose veil was on her face, and her
                    eyes were greedy with the rounded outline under the shawl. “I haven't got my
                    purse—yes, here's a penny, loose in my pocket.”
                The voice of the policeman broke through the
                    other woman's thanks—such thanks for such a gift.
                “Now, then, at it again!” he said. “You give me your name and address,” he added
                    sternly.
                The woman muttered some formula.
                “We can't 'ave you beggin' all over the place,” he went on. “On the church steps
                    and all. You'll 'ear of this again, I shouldn't wonder. 'Ere, you be off outer
                    this! Hear?”
                The woman with the child looked at him and crept away.
                “Oh, don't!” said the mother who had no child. “You wouldn't prosecute her for
                    that?”
                “Course not, mum,” the man reassured her. “But you 'ave to keep 'em up to the
                    mark or you wouldn't be able to get into the church for the crowds of them
                    there'd be. It's only encouraging them to give to beggars.”
                “I only gave her a penny,” said the mother.
                
                “Gin—that's what it'll go in,” said the majesty of the law.
                She went into the church. It was almost dark, except for a brightness that shone
                    between thick pillars far away to the right.
                The altar rose up into shadows. The red light burned before the altar. Here and
                    there a kneeling figure. She kneeled also. Here, perhaps, one might be able to
                    cry; tears made things easier, people said. She herself had thought so once. But
                    no tears came. And her agony was wound like a cord about and around her heart,
                    so that she could not pray. She kneeled there a very long time. The great calm
                    splendid silence, the atmosphere of devotion, the presence of a great love and
                    understanding that filled it, gave to her tortured mind the rest that a couch in
                    a darkened room might give to limbs strained with the rack and to eyes scorched
                    by the flames that lick round the stake. Life was all torture still, but this
                    was a breathing space. At first she thought of the woman on the steps—the mother
                        who had her child—and envy and pity fought
                    in her. She might get the address from the policeman and go and see the
                    woman—help, perhaps. No, no. It was all no use. What was the good of helping one
                    woman in a world where any woman might at any moment have this to bear?
                Gradually peace, like an incoming tide, lapped in small waves round her soul. Or
                    the exhaustion of prolonged agony, calling itself peace. She could no longer
                    think—could hardly feel. Intense pain was becoming itself an anesthetic. The
                    shadowy pillars seemed to move as shadows do, and the dim red light, hung
                    between earth and heaven, swam before her eyes. A little more, it seemed, and
                    she would forget everything.
                But she roused herself. There was something in the world that she must not
                    forget. Something beyond herself and her anguish. Her own mother. She must not
                    forget. She was to her mother what that which she had lost had been to her. She
                    rose and walked down the aisle. The soft yellow glow from behind the pillars seemed brighter than ever, to eyes
                    that had rested so long on the twilight that surrounds the altar.
                “I wonder what that light is!” she said, and was glad for her own mother's sake
                    that she could still wonder about anything. She walked towards the light, and
                    presently perceived that the light, coming from some unseen place, shone full on
                    a picture—no, a group of figures of wax or wood.
                It was a rocky cave, as tradition tells that the stable was where Christ was
                    born. Ivy wreathed the stones about. There was the straw, and the ox and the ass
                    among it; also those two travellers for whom there was no room in the inn. They
                    bent in adoration over the manger where the Hope of the World lay cradled.
                Outside were the kneeling kings with their gifts, and the star-led shepherds, and
                    beyond, in the deep eastern sky, the star that had led them.
                It was the scene that has inspired Raphael and Correggio, set forth with
                        ingenuous realism, as loving peasant
                    children might have set it.
                And the centre of it all—that on which was concentrated the light of the lamps,
                    and the light of love in the eyes of the Holy Mother, of the angels, the adoring
                    kings, and the shepherds—was the Child, the waxen image of the Child who was
                    born and laid in a manger, the image which the Catholic Church sets up at
                    Christmas to remind simple people how the King of Heaven came down and was a
                    little child. The very simplicity of it made a more direct appeal than could
                    have been made by all the Raphaels and Correggios in the world. That wooden
                    image of the Holy Mother bore on its face the light of love and joy the human
                    mother herself had known—and the shadow of a greater sorrow even than this of
                    hers, which was greater than all sorrows in the world.
                The mother who had no child found that she was kneeling again, her arms on the
                    wooden rail worn smooth by the arms of the many who had knelt there to realise,
                        at sight of this picture, the meaning of
                    Christmas. There was no one kneeling there now but she. She felt herself alone
                    among the kneeling shepherds and kings; and her eyes, like theirs, were turned
                    on the Child.
                The image was very lifelike. The Holy Child lay covered in soft, white draperies
                    that showed only the little round head and one tiny hand. Just so, so many
                    times, the mother had seen her baby sleep curled up, warm and safe in the kind
                    firelight, her baby that now lay straight and white and cold in a very dark
                    place, alone.
                “My baby, my baby,” she said, and hid her face. And then she knew that she was
                    crying, and praying, too. The tears were hot and many, and the prayer was only a
                    cry for help.
                “Oh, God,” she murmured, “help, help, help!” And again, and yet again: “Oh, God,
                    help!”
                All the dear memories of the past that made up the desolation of the present, she
                    had put away because she could not bear to look at them; now she reached out her
                        hands to them, clasped them, pressed the
                    sharp thorns against her heart, that she might call for help from the lowest
                    depths of her sorrow.
                Her face was against the wooden rail, wet with her tears. She crouched there.
                    Faith could move mountains. Perhaps it was true about miracles. If she only
                    prayed hard enough, perhaps she might go home to find her baby asleep in his
                    cot—perhaps all this would be only a dream. No, that was nonsense, of course;
                    but—
                “Oh, my baby, my baby! Oh, God, help!” she moaned, almost aloud.
                And then the miracle happened. She never doubted but that it was a miracle. A
                    little soft sound crept to her ears—not a sigh, not a cry, not a sob—the
                    contented, crooning murmur that a little child makes at the end of sleep, the
                    little lovely sound that had drawn her so often to the cot-side in the pleasant
                    firelit room when life was there.
                She looked round. No one had come in—no happy mother with a baby in her arms,
                    such as she had thought, from that soft
                     sound, to find close behind her. She was all
                    alone, with the Holy Family, and the shepherds, and the angels, and the
                    kings.
                She dried her eyes and listened. Again the little beautiful sound, and then... It
                    was no fairy story, but the truth. The mother who had no child saw, in the crib,
                    where pious folks had laid a waxen image, the movement of a living child. The
                    little dark head stirred on the pillow, the little pink hands stretched out, the
                    little arms thrust back the draperies, and amid the soft whiteness of them the
                    child awoke, and smiled—no cold image of the Divine infant, but a little, live,
                    naked, human thing.
                The human mother glanced round—the quick glance of a hunted animal that reassures
                    itself. Next moment she had crept under the wooden rail and caught up the
                    baby.
                Its limbs moved in slow softness as her own child's had moved. It lay contented
                    against her, wrapped in the white woollen folds, and covered with her furs.
                The wind was wild as she reached the swing-door;
                    it tried to uncover the child, and blew great flakes of snow in the mother's
                    face. She held the baby very closely.
                She does not know how she got home. The next thing she remembers is pushing past
                    the housemaid and carrying up those stairs, down which others had carried her
                    baby, this new baby that was not hers.
                “Brought home a baby? Say she's adopted it? Well, then, it's the best day's work
                    she could ha' done, an' I'm going straight up to tell her so.” So the cook goes,
                    leaving the housemaid and the parlourmaid and the niece to sniff in concert.
                Upstairs there is firelight and warmth, and two women worshipping a naked
                    child.
                And in the church much talk and wonder and grief for the bambino that has been
                    stolen—the little image of wood and wax so like life, that cost so much, and was
                    so useful in reminding the faithful what the gift from Heaven was that came to a
                    human mother on Christmas Day.
                
                
                For three days the mother had fed her hungry heart on the miracle-baby; it was
                    three days before she remembered that other mother and that other baby on the
                    steps outside the church. Then she bestirred herself, found the policeman, and
                    got from him the address that he had so severely noted.
                “I doubt you'll not find it a deserving case, mum,” he said. “I frightened her
                    off this beat. Ain't been 'ere since. That shows she wasn't up to no good.”
                It was a narrow street, where the house doors are never shut, and the children
                    play in the gutter with such toys as they have—rags and bones and bits of broken
                    wood. The door-posts are grimed to the level of a man's shoulder by the incoming
                    and outgoing of tired people in greasy clothes. The stairs were foul, and a cold
                    wind blew down them.
                “Top floor,” a dirty painted woman told her—“top floor, left hand. But I fancy
                    she's made a bolt—that's what I think. She was stony, I know, and three weeks'
                    owing. I did take 'er up a nice cup of tea yesterday, but I couldn't make no one hear. She ain't much
                    class, anyhow.”
                It was the man on the second floor, the man without collar and without shoes, who
                    broke the door open. He protested that it was agin the law. But the mother who
                    had found the miracle-baby found for the man a pretty golden argument.
                “Well, if you say so,” he said; “but if there's any rumpus—well, you're a lady,
                    and you'll say it was you. An' if you don't, I shall—see?”
                “Yes, yes—there won't be any fuss. It's all right. Only do make haste. I'm
                    certain there's something wrong. And just feel how the wind blows under the
                    door: The window must be open.”
                It was. And now the door hung crookedly from a broken hinge.
                Of course, you have known all the time, as the mother knew, that the woman would
                    be dead.
                She was. Her empty arms outstretched, she lay very cold and stiff on a bed that
                        was old iron and sacking. The casement
                    window had blown open, and the snow had drifted half across the room, and lay in
                    a frozen streak like a shaft of dead-white moonshine. You know all that. It
                    shows itself. What you do not know, perhaps—what at any rate the mother did not
                    know who looked fearfully through the broken door—is that it was this woman who
                    had stolen the waxen Christ Child, stripped her own baby, and laid it, with who
                    knows what desperate incoherence of hope and love and faith, in the holy manger,
                    and had gone away hugging the waxen babe that could not feel the bitter night
                    under that shawl, thin as a nun's veil.
                She had taken the Christ Child home; she called it home, one supposes. And, once
                    safely there, some scruple, some forgotten reverence, must have come to her.
                For she had set up an altar in that bare place.
                Over the old sugar-box that used to serve her for table she had laid the greenish
                    shawl that was thin as a nun's veil. She had set the image of the new-born
                    Saviour in a blue and white neckerchief that
                    must have had to her the value of a relic, for it was clean, and its creases
                    showed that it had long lain folded.
                She had set up two candles in chipped beer bottles and lighted them. They must
                    have burned bravely, illumining that shrine, till the wind thrust itself through
                    the window and made everything dark and cold again.
                And the last lean alms that Life had given she had spent on those two
                    candles.
                So the image of the Mother of God got back its bambino. And the mother who had no
                    child got the miracle-baby. And the mother who made the shrine with her last
                    coin and her last warmth and her last love- relic, got . . .
                “Good thing for her she went off like she did,” said the policeman. “She'd a got
                    a month for nicking of that image, sure as I'm a sinner. Theft an'
                    sacrullidge. It's serious, that is. Lucky let-off, I call it.”
            
            
                
                II
                JOHN OF THE ISLAND
                
                
                JOHN OF THE ISLAND
                JOHN lived on an island. You will think that this was lucky for him
                    because, of course, it is the dream of all children to live on an island. But it
                    is poor fun to have everybody else's dreams come true instead of your own—and
                    John, having been born on the island, had twisted little dreams of his own about
                    how lovely it must be to live on the mainland.
                “It must feel so firm,” said John.
                He had the fixed idea that islands were supported by stalks underneath, like
                    mushrooms, and could, like mushrooms, be gathered, supposing some one had a hand
                    big enough, which, for anything John knew, some one might easily have. John had
                    read all about giants.
                He had read a great deal, for granny was very
                    tired and feeble, and the old man who took care of the garden was very deaf and
                    very cross, and the old woman who looked after the housework had no time to look
                    after John. Of course, she saw to it that he had meals to eat and clothes to
                    wear, but that was all.
                Granny had taught him to read, and as soon as he had understood that reading was
                    the way to get at stories for himself, instead of waiting till granny felt well
                    enough to read them to him, he learned quickly. And then he read all the books
                    on the shelf in the untidy parlour; there were only five: Somebody's “Missionary
                    Journeys in Peru,” “The Child's Guide to Knowledge,” a hymn book, “The
                    Gardener's Manual,” and Mrs. Something-or-Other's Cookery Book.
                He learned a good many of the hymns; his granny liked to hear him say them when
                    she was not too tired. The gardening book would have been interesting if old
                    Stemson would have let him try to carry out its hints on preparing mushroom beds
                        and blanching cardoons. But he wouldn't.
                    And Mrs. Stemson objected quite as strongly to his trying to cook “Sole àa la
                    Normande” or “Eels en Matelotte” at her kitchen range.
                “Then can't Stemson get me some other books when he goes across to get the eating
                    things?” John asked; “it's no use for me to go on reading books that tell me how
                    to do things if you won't let me do them.”
                “I never seen such a child,” said Mrs. Stemson; “never satisfied! Why don't you
                    play with your wooden horse like a good little boy?”
                “I don't want to play with my wooden horse,” said John firmly. “I want books to
                    read in. I'll go and ask granny.”
                “You're not to bother your granny. If you must read, you must. Go along up to the
                    attic. There's boxes and boxes of books there. Only don't you disturb nothing
                    else, and come down again soon as ever you've chose your book.”
                He did not come down at all till she fetched him, and then it was tea-time.
                
                He was sitting on the floor, leaning against an old hair-trunk, and all round him
                    were piles of dusty books. He held “Gulliver's Travels” open in his hands, and,
                    to be ready when he had finished that, he had his elbow on “Red Cotton Nightcap
                    Country.”
                “Tea?” he said, looking up vacantly. “Oh yes! I wasn't thinking about tea!”
                “You come along down to it directly minute,” said Mrs. Stemson severely, “and no
                    reading at meals, mind, with your buttery thumb into all them books, as was your
                    ma's. I know your careless ways.”
                John was careless. Most boys are; but he would have given up reading altogether
                    rather than willingly hurt one of the books that had been his dead mother's.
                “Red Cotton Nightcap Country” didn't come up to its title; and when “Gulliver”
                    was finished—he found it dull in parts—he searched the attic again. And this
                    time he found the fairy book that taught him all about giants. It and a lot more
                    books that he loved were in a little black box with a rounded top, and E.B. on the cover in round-headed
                    brass nails.
                It was in the fairy book that he read about Dick Whittington and about Puss in
                    Boots.
                “What's a cat like?” he asked Mrs. Stemson; for there was no cat on the
                    island.
                “Oh,” said Mrs. Stemson readily, “a cat's like—like a cat, you know.”
                “Very well,” said John; “I'll ask granny.”
                “I'll be bound you would. Go and upset her with your silly questions, and her
                    bronchitis as bad as can be, as it is. Just like a boy—think of nobody but
                    yourself.”
                “Granny likes me to ask her questions,” he said.
                “Not about cats.”
                “But why?”
                “She can't abide to hear 'em named.”
                “But why?”
                “Oh, go along with you—do,” said Mrs. Stemson; but John, with the quiet
                    persistence that always overcame her in the end, declined to “go along.”
                
                “If you don't tell me,” he said, “I shall ask my granny.”
                “Oh, if you will have it, it was a cat killed your poor ma.”
                “Oh!” said John, “they're wild beasts, then? Oh, how horrible”
                He had turned quite pale, and was holding on to the corner of the dresser that
                    she was scrubbing.
                “Nonsense,” she said, briskly soaping the brush. “Cats ain't wild beasts—though
                    they are a bit like little tigers, come to think of it, about the figure. Your
                    ma—there was some boys had thrown a cat in the river, and your ma was a trying
                    to get it out, and she fell in and was drownded to death. That's all. And your
                    granny, she somehow took a dislike to cats from that time.”
                “I don't see why,” said John, the colour coming slowly back to his face; “it
                    wasn't the cat's fault. If I ever meet a cat I shall be kind to it, because
                    mother was.”
                John read all the books that seemed as if they would let him read them; and
                        when he read stories of children and the
                    way they played together, he longed to be in the book and in the games. But most
                    of all he longed to meet a cat and be kind to it.
                Granny's bronchitis got worse and worse, and every day Stemson used to row the
                    boat over to the mainland, and the doctor used to come back in the boat. The
                    first time the doctor came he looked at John as if he were sorry for him. “I
                    wonder why,” John said. The next time he came he looked at John as though he
                    liked him. And, of course, John was pleased.
                He would have liked to talk to the doctor about the books that he was always
                    reading. He read them in the branches of the trees that grew near the house, he
                    read them in bed, he read them on the doorstep in the sun, on the rocks when the
                    tide was high, and on the sand when the tide was low.
                But he and the doctor never talked to each other—first, because John was too shy
                    to begin, and, secondly, because Mrs. Stemson always came close behind the
                    doctor as if she were trying to shoo him out of
                    the house, as Stemson did the hens when they got into the garden.
                And the doctor came every day, and John could only see his granny for a very few
                    minutes at a time. And she looked more tired than ever.
                Then one day Mrs. Stemson, by some odd chance, was not in the way, and the doctor
                    stopped him in the garden and said:
                “Little man, can't I bring you something from the mainland? Isn't there anything
                    you'd like?”
                “Big man,” said John very seriously, for he was not accustomed to the way in
                    which big people usually talk to little ones, “I only want a cat; but I shall
                    never have that, of course.”
                “Why not?” said the doctor cheerfully, and next day he opened his coat and pulled
                    out a little kitten. It was striped, and very like a tiger.
                “Dear, dear, dear little thing,” said John, taking it in his arms. “Oh, how good
                        you are. May you be rewarded for your
                    generosity!” He had read so many books that he sometimes talked like the people
                    in them.
                “You don't mean to say,” said Mrs. Stemson, “that you've brought him a
                        cat—the missus being as she is about them? Well, water's
                    plentiful. We shan't miss a pailful.”
                “You shan't!” said John, clutching the kitten, and paling with
                    fury.
                “Hush, hush!” said the doctor. “You won't say anything about the kitten to your
                    granny, will you, old boy? Run along now.”
                “Of course not,” said John indignantly, and ran.
                The doctor sank his voice to a whisper as John turned the corner of the house.
                    “It doesn't matter,” he said; “it's only a question of hours now. The kitten
                    will be a comfort to the little chap when—when he knows.”
                And it was. When Mrs. Stemson told him a few days later, and very gently for her,
                    that his granny had gone to be an angel, and when he had understood that it
                        meant that he would not see her ever again
                    until he was an angel too, the kitten's soft tabby fur was wet and streaked with
                    his tears. He told the kitten how sorry he was that he hadn't always done
                    exactly what his granny told him to do, and how he wished he'd been different.
                    And the kitten mewed in sympathy, especially when John squeezed it too hard in
                    the strength of his remorse. He had been a very good little boy, really; but the
                    best of little boys have always something to be sorry for when the people they
                    love have been “taken away to be angels.” The kitten mewed, but it did not purr;
                    it was not old enough.
                “What's to become of the little chap?” asked the doctor later.
                “His uncle owns the island now the missus is gone,” said Mrs. Stemson. “He'll be
                    down before long. He's wrote me as he'll provide for the boy; send him to an
                    orphan's home, he says. A hard man Master George always was, and quarrelled with
                    all the family. Thank goodness me and Stemson has saved enough in service to buy a little business and see a
                    little life after all these years on this dull old island.”
                To John the island was very dull indeed, now that granny was not there any more,
                    and Mrs. Stemson talked to him less than ever. When she refused to answer his
                    questions he could not now say, “Very well, then; I'll ask granny.” And she
                    almost always refused. So he talked to the kitten.
                “You know, pussy dear,” he used to say, “we aren't doing anything we ought to be
                    doing, like they do in the books. We aren't setting out to seek our fortunes,
                    like the fairy-tale boys; and we aren't going to school, like the boys in the
                    other kind of books. But we must just be very good till uncle comes. He'll be
                    like the doctor, very kind and nice. And he'll tell us every single thing we ask
                    him. He'll be of benevolent aspect, pussy, and the impress of his noble heart
                    will be imprinted on his face; and he'll press me to his manly bosom, I
                    shouldn't wonder.”
                
                But, when after some weeks the uncle did come, he was a heavy middle-aged man,
                    with cold hard little blue eyes, a creased waistcoat, and a tight mouth that
                    never smiled. He just nodded to John, and somehow, John did not want to ask him
                    anything.
                The uncle went all over the house and all over the island, and made notes in a
                    black pocket-book. In the evening he sent for John, who came, with the kitten,
                    as usual, on his shoulder.
                “You've to go to school,” he said, “next Tuesday. Be a good boy, and mind your
                    books.”
                “I don't mind books at all,” said John; “I love them. May I have a basket to put
                    pussy in? I might lose her if I took her to school in my arms.”
                The uncle laughed, without smiling, which is very horrid to look at.
                “A pail of water will do to put pussy in,” he said. “They don't take in cats at
                    that school.”
                
                “Have you done with me now?” John asked very quietly, but there was something in
                    his tone that made the uncle say, “Come now, none of your sulks, my fine
                    fellow.”
                John stood looking at his uncle till the silence grew uncomfortable.
                “Yes; you may go,” said the uncle suddenly, “and remember, no sulks.”
                “Very well,” said John, and went.
                That night as Mr. and Mrs. Stemson nodded over the kitchen fire, and the uncle
                    nodded over the fire in the dining-room, a small figure in fluttering white
                    crept down the stairs. It opened the kichen door suddenly.
                “Drat the child,” said Mrs. Stemson, starting violently; “get back to your bed;
                    you'll catch your death.”
                “My pussy's ill,” said John. “I know she is. She is at death's door.”
                “Fiddlestick-end with your pussy; off you go!” said Mrs. Stemson, and Mr. Stemson
                    growled so fiercely that John went.
                Fear is the only thing that can conquer fear.
                    John's fear for his pussy's life was greater than his fear of his uncle.
                He opened the parlour door. The uncle woke, and saw the small face made swollen
                    and ugly by long weeping.
                “Get back to bed,” he said. “What do you mean disturbing the house like
                    this?”
                “My pussy—” began John, brave with the courage of the great fear.
                “I'll wring your pussy's neck in a minute,” said the uncle.
                John fled.
                Next morning there was no John on the island.
                They searched high, and they searched low. They searched the house and the garden
                    and the rocks and the sand, but there wasn't so much as a hair of John to be
                    seen, a breath of John to be heard. And the boat was at its moorings.
                “He've drownded himself,” said Mrs. Stemson, “that's what he've done. You was too
                    'ard on 'im, Stemson; I always told you so.”
                
                “'Ard yourself,” said Stemson; “'e can't 'ave. Kids don't do things like
                    that.”
                “You'd better go over to the mainland and tell the police,” said the uncle. He
                    shrugged his shoulders impatiently. Perhaps he had been too hard.
                    But then, he had never understood children. He had always rather prided himself
                    on not understanding children.
                Stemson unchained the boat, and went.
                
                The doctor was at his late breakfast. He had been up all night with a sick child.
                    Something went past the window; something small and hurried. Then the door
                    opened.
                “It's me!” said John. “My pussy's ill. You're the doctor that cures people. I
                    don't want my pussy to go and be an angel like my granny.”
                John's clothes were torn, his forehead had a lumpy blue bruise on it. His hands
                    were scratched and bleeding, and hands and face were stained with tears and dirt
                    and tar.
                
                The doctor took the kitten and looked at it carefully.
                “She seems all right,” he said; “only rather frightened; and hungry, I
                    expect.”
                He set down milk in a saucer in front of the fire. The kitten, after a scared
                    glance to right and left, lapped eagerly.
                John, holding by the corner of the table, stood, rather unsteady.
                “You poor, dear little chap,” said the doctor, and took John on his knee. It was
                    pleasant to rest one's head on a firm shoulder.
                “Some hot milk first; that's right. Now, tell me how you got here. See, pussy's
                    all right.”
                “She wasn't, in the night,” said John; “and every one was cruel, and said put her
                    in pails; so I got up, and we hid in the boat's locker. Oh, it was so cold, even
                    with my blanket, and pussy hated it; and she scratched me, and I bumped my head;
                    but we stayed there, and then in the morning Stemson went over. He always goes
                    to get the bread and things; and when he'd tied
                    up the boat we got out, and ran to where the houses begin, and asked for you,
                    and a woman told us, and so we came. And I don't at all mind pussy being an
                    angel-cat, if I may go, too, and be an angel-little-boy. But I don't want her to
                    go without me. And she is ill; just like granny was.”
                The doctor cuddled John more comfortably against his shoulder. He had no children
                    of his own, but he had never prided himself on not understanding them.
                “What made you think she was ill?” he asked gently.
                “It was the dreadful noise she made,” said John, beginning to sob; “a rattling in
                    her chest; just like dear granny's bronchitis. And pussy did it in bed, and she
                    did it in the locker, after a bit—and oh—oh—oh—you must make her
                    well! she's doing it now!”
                The cat, having fed and washed, had stretched herself in front of the fire.
                        She was purring!
                
                
                John sat up in bed when the doctor came in. It was the doctor's bed.
                “It's quite true what you told me,” he said; “she does sing because she's
                    pleased. She does it when I stroke her. But why didn't she do it before?”
                “She was too young,” said the doctor. “John, how would you like to stay here and
                    be my little boy? I've seen your uncle and he says you may.”
                “For always?” asked John; “and live with you on the solid land?”
                “Yes.”
                “And you to fold me to your manly bosom like you did this morning?”
                “Yes, my little chap, yes——”
                “And pussy to stay too?”
                “Of course,” said the doctor.
                “Oh,” said John, “my heart is full to overflowing. I know not how to thank you!
                    I'd ever so much rather do that than go and be angels. Only when I do go you'll
                    have to come too, and I'll be the best angel-little-boy that ever was; and
                    you'll be an angel-doctor. I think you are now,
                    really, almost; and pussy will be an angel-cat, because she'll be quite grown up
                    by then. And we'll go and see granny and mother, and your mother too, if she's
                    there. Won't they be pleased!”
                “Yes,” said the doctor; and he smiled and sighed at the same time. “Yes, my
                    little son; we must try to get there.”
                “Oh,” said John again, “am I going to be your little son? Now I know what
                    ‘transports of delight’ means!” He hugged the doctor, and in the happy silence
                    that followed the kitten purred heavily.
            
            
                
                III
                THE ASHPITS
                
                THE ASHPITS
                BREAD and water, warmth and sleep. These are the needs of the body. The
                    needs of the spirit are diverse. The chief spiritual need of a child is play,
                    and with it a place to play in. Big grassy gardens, a stream to fish in, to
                    paddle in, to adventure on and to dam, cellars wherein to play at prisoners,
                    attics in which to play at distressed Royalists, hayfields to roll in, old trees
                    to climb, bushes to cover the amateur brigand: these are the beginnings of the
                    birthright of a child.
                And Bert had none of these things. Instead he had what his mother called the
                    Hashpits. His mother was very poor, but she did not live in a “crowded city
                    slum, where only a strip of smoke-clouded sky shows pale between the high dirty
                        houses.” Life would have been gayer if she
                    had, for such slums are not out of reach of the lighted streets, the
                    barrel-organs, the changing picture-gallery of shop-windows, the come and go of
                    excitement and event. She lived in a battered suburb, a place, not so long ago,
                    good and green, where hawthorn was white in the hedges, and in the fields
                    buttercups and dog-daisies and red field-sorrel stood up with the flowered grass
                    for hay.
                But now, rows and rows of ugly little houses, bricked and slated, have crept out
                    from the town, and, like crawling yellow caterpillars, have eaten up the fresh
                    green country. The houses are all alike, and all horrible, and the people in
                    them have no time to be sorry that the green country has been eaten up. They
                    have only time for two things, work and fear—the fear that some day they will no
                    longer be able to get work. Before that fear, hope and joy lie paralysed, as
                    warm little live things are that meet the cold eyes of a serpent. Work and fear;
                    for the men and women there is nothing else.
                
                But the child had something else. He had play. And he had a place to play in.
                Here and there, among the yellow brick caterpillars, lie, shrinking ashamed,
                    deflowered bits of the country that are, as yet, not much more than half-ruined.
                    They are called “Eligible Building Sites.” On them grow scant patches of grass,
                    nettles tall and fierce, a stunted May-tree or two with the yellow ground
                    trampled hard round its half-uncovered roots. There the kindly coltsfoot comes
                    in spring; the brave little pink convolvulus spreads its mantle over the bare
                    dust, and there are elder-bushes that flower in June, and tall docks and
                    dandelions, and stinking May-weed that has feathery leaves, and pretends to the
                    other weeds that it is a daisy.
                Loose bricks lie about, and old cans that held Heaven knows what of food,
                    unsavoury and unnourishing. There are holes, like little ponds, full of dirty
                    water, with torn paper and broken bottles at the edge, where real ponds wear
                    their sweet trimming of water-mint and rushes.
                    All these things are good to play with. But, best of all, is the ashpit, a great
                    hollow where the dustcarts come and tip out their loud-sounding, sour-smelling
                    hoards—cinders and ashes and bones and bits of withered vegetables, potato
                    peelings, filthy papers, matted hair and grease, dead cats, their poor fur
                    flattened and damp, rotting scraps of oil-cloth, broken crockery—all the
                    loathsome excretions of congested civilisation.
                This was the child's El-dorado, his land of treasure and joy. Here he spent every
                    moment that could be filched from school or saved from home.
                The child in the green garden, where the cedars are, and the old lawn and the
                    clear stream, gets no treasures from any of these dearer to him than the ashpits
                    yielded to Bert's eyes and hands. They were live hands—quick, clever, sensitive
                    through their dirt. And the eyes could see.
                The full half of a china plate, with a blue bird on it, part of a rose-wreath,
                        washed clean in one of the filthy puddles,
                    and polished on the inside of his jacket—who shall say what savour of Eden-fruit
                    it gave to the margarine-smeared slabs that were Bert's daily bread? Or the
                    cake-tin, but little the worse for that hole in the side, polished with mud and
                    loving care; how bright a vase in which to plant a straggling woody-nightshade,
                    uprooted near the biggest of the elders! There was a brass brooch, too, with a
                    single “diamond” left out of its original seven, that fastened mother's jacket,
                    and the one diamond shone all the more bravely for its loneliness. When the sky
                    was blue and the sun shone on the ashpits a world of possible discoveries winked
                    at the child from every shard of crockery, every curve of broken bottle.
                “I am a gold digger,” he said, “and it's all gold what I'm a-standing on; every
                    bloomin' bit of it—only I don't take the gold away. It's cheap 'ere; cheap as
                    dirt. I only takes the extry fine fings—see?”
                It was to himself that he said it; there was no one else who would have
                    understood.
                
                He found many things in the ashpits. The most wonderful of them all he found on a
                    Saturday. Father had come home drunk, quite early too, from the tinned-milk
                    factory where he worked. Mother had said things. Father had hit her, and she had
                    hit back—with the lamp. Fortunately, it was not lighted, but, all the same,
                    father had had to go to the doctor's to have his head tied up. Bert was cuffed
                    by both—not from malice, or because he had done anything wrong, but just because
                    he happened to be there. The woody-nightshade had been knocked down and trampled
                    upon. Mother had cried, and one of the neighbours had run for a little something
                    in a bottle to help her get the better of it. Bert knew he was best out of the
                    way, and the longer he stayed away the better. He went out sniffing, and wiping
                    nose and eyes alike on the ragged cuff of his jacket. It left his face dirtier
                    than before for the most part, yet clean in queer pinky streaks where the tears
                    had been. He crept down the road, through the
                    broken fence to the ashpits.
                The place sparkled and allured in a thousand points of light, where the sun made
                    beauty out of such material as man had left to it—old sardine tins, shattered
                    beer bottles, all things worthless and ugly.
                “I wish,” said Bert, sitting down on the ashes, and digging his broken heels into
                    the moist softness of them, “I wish everyfink was different.” Sometimes on
                    Saturdays, when father was not drunk, there were halfpennies for little boys.
                    The thought of these coloured the week. There had been none to-day. The chimneys
                    of the factories rose up tall and straight. Whichever way you looked there were
                    factories, and sheds all black and brown and grey. The ashes were grey, too,
                    except where they were wet, and then they were rusty red. And the smell of decay
                    and filth was keen and sickening. It did not sicken Bert. Nothing in his life
                    smelt otherwise.
                “What's the good,” said the child, “me finding
                    fings and all that?” he sniffed again. “I do wish—” he said, and stopped short.
                    For a kindly-looking old gentleman was standing close to him, looking down on
                    him through beaming spectacles.
                “What do you wish, my little man?” he asked.
                “Nuffink,” said Bert resolutely.
                “Then what are you crying for?”
                “Farver's out o' work,” said the child, with perfect smoothness and a complete
                    change of tone, “and muvver's been ill ever since the last baby come. And vere
                    ain't nuffing to eat in the 'ouse, and no money for the doctor.”
                “Dear, dear,” said the old gentleman sympathetically, “that's very sad. How did
                    your father lose his job?”
                “Along of a mate of his,” said the child, all the tide of romance swelling the
                    stream of words; “'e 'ad a down on farver, 'cause farver 'e reported him wunst
                    to the foreman for langwidge. He said farver shirked 'is share when it come to
                    shifting sleepers. Farver's on the railway.”
                
                “Sure it wasn't drink?” asked the old gentleman.
                “Oh no, sir! Quite sure, sir. 'E's a Band of 'Ope, 'e is—never tykes a drop week
                    in week out; and muvver, she's the same,”
                “And are your parents kind to you?”
                “Kind as kind vey are. Never lifts a 'and to me whatever I does, and learns me my
                    prayers and all.”
                “That's well,” said the old gentleman. The creative impulse in the child
                    passionately went out to meet its opportunity—to make something—a story—“like as
                    if things was different.”
                “We 'ad a little cottage wiv flowers all in ve garden. An potatoes. An beans on
                    strings, with red flowers. An Sunday cloves, and meat from the bake-us every
                    Sunday. An I 'ad a blue tie for to wear at Sunday school. An muvver she 'ad a
                    red dress wiv a lace collar and flowers in 'er 'at. An everyfink. An a dog we
                    kep. Carlo 'is name was. All black and curly. I useter ride on 'is back. An
                    fowls.”
                
                “And then your father lost his work—dear, dear!”
                “Yes, sir. An so...” The tide swept on. Under the creative joy of the artist lay
                    the speculation and desire of the child. Would the old josser be good for a
                    halfpenny?
                Quite a long talk they had. A full biography, jewelled with detail, rewarded the
                    stranger's interest.
                And the halfpenny. Would he? wouldn't he?
                At long last the old gentleman's hand went to a side-pocket. He would! He would!
                    It might even be a penny.
                “Here,” said the prim voice kindly enough, and the hand brought out a printed
                    paper. “Give this to your father. It's called ‘Room at the Top: a few words on
                    Self-help.’”
                “Ain't you got ne'er a copper,” asked the child in a voice of honey, “to get a
                    bit of bread wiv, sir?”
                “Certainly not. I never give coppers.
                     On principle. Your father can apply to the
                    Charity Organisation Society.”
                The little sharp face changed as a dream changes, and the face was the face of
                    Bert's father.
                “Garn—call yourself a gentleman,” cried the child, snatching the tract out of the
                    fat pale hand and tearing it across. “A gentleman? I'll tell yer what yer are.”
                    He did, with graphic directness, suited to the occasion and not to be
                    printed.
                “You're a very wicked little boy,” said the Philanthropist angrily, and picked
                    his way across the ashpit, resuming that quest for a short cut which had led him
                    thus astray.
                The child, still vociferously unprintable, dug his heels more deeply into the
                    ashes, and the flood of his foul eloquence slackened, ebbed, ceased. Salt tears
                    trickled down to his lips and washed them clean.
                “I do wish,” he sobbed, “I do wish everyfink was different.”
                He rubbed his eyes with his knuckles.
                
                “Now you stop it, d'year?” he said presently. God had given him courage as well
                    as imagination, enterprise, eyes clear enough to see beauty, and a heart big
                    enough to hold love. “You go along an' find somefink. That's what you do. See?
                    Somefink as Muvver'll like, or p'raps Farver, when they gets sober again.”
                He resolutely got on his legs, and looked afar over the wide stretch of his
                    treasure ground.
                A gleam of blue brightness beckoned him as sapphires might a queen. He followed.
                    A bottle, pleasantly ribbed, with a pretty red label; a cork, too, unusual in
                    his kingdom. He pulled the cork out with his teeth; sniffed.
                “Smells like cough-drops,” he said.
                He liked cough-drops. And he had not had the halfpenny that sometimes happened on
                    Saturdays.
                He put out a little pink tongue to touch the lip of the bottle.
                “Oh, crikey, ain't it 'ot!” he said. Then he
                    smacked his lips. “But it's good, though. Don't it warm you all down yer chest,
                    neiver?” He took another lick, put the bottle in his pocket, and resumed his
                    search for treasure. Fate was kind to him that day. He found a bent brass
                    buckle—that would do for mother's hat—a mud-coloured handkerchief with a hole in
                    it. “I could wash that out proper,” he said. Also an illustrated paper with a
                    lot of clean pages in it, and a quite wonderfully pink cup with only the handle
                    and a very little bit of the lip missing. Now and then he heartened himself for
                    the search with a sip from the sweet but comforting bottle that was nearly half
                    full. How could any one have thrown away such a treasure?
                But something for father—it was no good going home—one could sleep quite well out
                    here, and go home when “they” were themselves again; but something for
                    father—that, definitely, however sleepy one might be. And, even to this extreme,
                    indulgent, Fate granted him “something for father”—a briar pipe—burnt down somewhat, but still, the child
                    knew, smokable.
                It was under the biggest elder that he lay down, so that the last thing he saw
                    before he shut his eyes was the green mat of leaves, starry with milk-white
                    blossoms that oddshaped patches of sky showed through.
                “I wish,” said Bert, cramming his treasures under the ragged covert of his jacket
                    lest they should be taken from him while he slept, “I wish everyfink was
                    different.”
                Then his eyes closed. And presently everything was different.
                It was quite late when his father, now only half-drunk, and driven by the
                    mother's half-sober anxiety, came across the ashpits, his head horrible with
                    bandages, to look for his little son.
                “That you, young Bert?” he said; “you get up and come home long er me. Get up, I
                    tell yer, or av I got ter kick ye up, ye blooming lazy little beggar?”
                Bert did not move. The father kicked him. Not enough to disable.
                
                “Get up, I tell you,” he said; and then his dulled brain began to attend to what
                    his foot had told him.
                “Eh?” he said, “what's up? I ain't 'urt ye, yer silly little devil! What's to
                    pay? Speak up, can't yer?”
                But it was the silence that spoke.
                The chill dew had fallen on the green and white of the elder, and on the child's
                    face, and on the buckle and the pipe and the pink tea-cup that only lacked a
                    handle.
                Luckily, father was not too drunk to carry home the little shape. Young Bert was
                    very light for his age.
                
                “Considering his surroundings,” said the coroner, heartening up a juryman who
                    seemed somehow a little upset, “it was probably the best thing that could have
                    happened to the child.”
                And all the time there are the green gardens, the lawns and the cedars, the
                    streams and the hayfields. There are also the ashpits.
                It was the best thing that could have happened to the child.
            
            
                
                IV
                HOW JAKE WENT HOME
                
                HOW JAKE WENT HOME
                IT is very difficult to believe all you hear, or even all you see, if
                    you are the kind of person that really sees at all. But when things are printed,
                    of course, they must be true, so you will find it quite easy to believe what I
                    am going to tell you. I don't quite know what I am going to tell
                    you, because no one has told me yet. But I know some one will.... Now see how
                    oddly things turn out. Just as I had written that, I heard the prettiest voice
                    in the world outside my window—“Is there any one at home?” it called. I looked
                    out carefully to see who it was, because, of course, it might have been the
                    taxes, or the water-rate, or a bore in a bonnet. Instead of which it was the
                    most beautiful of all the beautiful princesses I know, so I went out and sat
                    with her on the low wall that divides my garden
                    from the white road where the pink convolvuluses make flat round patches among
                    the wayside grass, and we watched the sheep go slowly by, for this is market-day
                    in the town, and this is the story she told me.
                
                The princess is not living in her kingdom at present, as you will have guessed
                    from her coming to sit on my humble wall; she is in lodgings at the seaside.
                    That was why her hair was hanging all dark and long over her royal shoulders,
                    instead of being tidily tucked up under her crown, as it always is, when she is
                    at home in her palace. It was also the reason why she carried a basket with
                    strawberries in it, and a pat of butter and two penny buns, which would
                    presently be somebody's lunch. And the story she told me was the story of the
                    little boy who went home.
                
                Jake Jenkins was his name, and he lived in a very nasty street in
                        London—Little Goodge Street that is, which
                    is a turning out of Goodge Street, which turns out of the Tottenham Court Road,
                    which turns out of Oxford Street, which is too proud to turn out of anything.
                    Sutton Row the street was called where Jake lived, and it was one of those
                    streets where the side-walk is always bordered with cabbage stalks and orange
                    peel and crushed banana skins, instead of the clean green grass, with daisies in
                    it, that all side-walks ought to be bordered with. And when the wind blew,
                    instead of the brown bright fallen leaves or the bits of clean hay that blow
                    about in country roads, pieces of crumpled, dirty torn paper were caught up and
                    fluttered down the ugly grimy street, and in at people's dirty front doors. For
                    in Sutton Row all the doors are always open, and the children sit on the
                    doorsteps playing with bits of rag and rusty iron, and dirty brick and dead
                    mice, and none of them ever have any pocket handkerchiefs.
                Jake lived with his aunt, because he had no
                    father and mother, and the aunt was not unkind to him; but she had not time to
                    be very kind, because she had to work about fourteen hours a day, sewing strips
                    of dyed rabbit-fur together, and the fluff used to get into her throat, so that
                    she was always coughing. She got only about a shilling a day for this work, so
                    that it was not easy for her to keep herself, let alone Jake. There was a big,
                    dingy, untidy bed in the room, and a table, and a chair, whose cane seat had a
                    hole in it, so that the broken canes stuck out underneath like the quills of a
                    very untidy and careless porcupine. The black and brown fur used to lie all
                    about on bed and table and chairs and floor, and the fluff got into Jake's
                    throat, too, and made him cough, so that he liked to spend as much time as he
                    could in the streets. In fine weather he used to look at the shops, and whiten
                    the tip of his nose by pressing it against the windows of shops that sold things
                    to eat.
                One day, when the tip of his nose was feeling
                    quite cold from so long being pressed against the glass, some one touched him on
                    his little thin shoulder. He jumped, because he thought it was the policeman. In
                    London, and especially if you are poor, there are quite a lot of things you
                    mustn't do—things that you would never think were wrong unless you had been
                    told, and it is the policeman who tells you what these things are. But it wasn't
                    the policeman this time; it was a lady with the most beautiful green eyes in the
                    world. In fact, it was my princess.
                “Are you hungry, dear?” she said.
                “Yes,” said Jake; because he was—always.
                Then the lady went into the shop and bought a penny bun, and a bath bun, and a
                    cream bun, and gave them all to Jake in a paper bag; and she squeezed his little
                    dirty hand, and said, “I wish you could have them every day, you poor dear
                    little chap,” and left him there so full of happiness that at first he felt he
                    was too full to have room even for buns.
                
                He recovered, however, and ate the penny bun first because it looked, and indeed
                    was, the plainest. Then he ate nearly all the bath bun. And then he took one
                    bite of the cream bun.
                “Oh,” said Jake, and his blue eyes were as round as saucers, “I didn't think
                    there could be anything so good.”
                And then he finished the buns to the very last crumbs in the paper bag, and went
                    to look in at the garden in Bloomsbury Square, and he looked through at the
                    green grass and gravelled walks, and wished that he could find a garden where
                    all the children could play, not just only the ones whose mothers had the keys
                    of the cold iron gates.
                “If I was always in a garden, and the lady to give me things to eat—Oh, jimmimy!”
                    said Jake.
                After a long time he turned to go home, but his eyes were so full of green trees
                    and green grass, and his mind was so full of cream buns and my princess that he
                        did not look where he was going, and he did
                    not care.
                That was how it happened: that at the corner of Goodge Street a cab horse knocked
                    him down with its big soft nose, and before he could pick himself up the cab
                    wheel went over him, and they carried him to the Middlesex Hospital at the end
                    of Goodge Street, and when he woke up he was in the loveliest bed you can
                    imagine, and a very kind lady was leaning over him, and calling him “dear,” just
                    as my princess had done. In Sutton Row, you know, they do not call the children
                    “dear,” but quite different names, even when they mean to be kind.
                Being in hospital is rather like being in heaven when you are a child who has
                    always lived in Sutton Row. No one cuffs you, or pushes you roughly out of the
                    way. There is no scolding. There are large clean beds that jump softly when you
                    move, and you have a bed to yourself—which Jake had never had before—and things
                    to eat nicer than you ever dreamed of—chicken
                    and rice pudding, and fish and mutton, and all the things some people get into
                    the habit of turning their noses up at at nursery dinner. And there are toys to
                    play with; real toys; soldiers and puzzles and bricks—not just bits of rag and
                    rusty iron and brick and dead mice.
                Even if your legs do hurt rather badly, it is worth while to go to hospital when
                    you have spent all your life in Sutton Row.
                “I likes the eating and the drinking and the lying and the ladies and the
                    everything,” said Jake. “I wish I 'adn't never got to go 'ome no more.”
                But, unfortunately, nobody is allowed to stay on for ever in a hospital except,
                    of course, the doctors and nurses.
                “Me got to go 'ome again?” Jake asked. “Couldn't you let me stop on a bit? I
                    wouldn't give no trouble. I could 'elp clean the floors and wash up and
                    that.”
                The nurse laughed.
                “All right, Tommy,” she said—all boys are called
                    Tommy in the hospital when they're not called “dear”;—“you aren't going home yet
                    awhile. You're to go down to the sea, and get strong and well first.”
                “What sea?” asked Jake.
                “The sea,” said the nurse, who was rather in a hurry. “It's all blue
                    water, you know, and there's sand to dig in, and all sorts of lovely
                    things.”
                “Things to eat?” asked Jake, who had never had enough to eat in his life till he
                    got run over.
                “I should think so!” said the nurse gaily. “Meat every day, and cake and jam and
                    milk; and strawberries, I shouldn't wonder.”
                Jake pondered these beautiful words, and that was why he did not cry quite so
                    much as was expected when he was put into the cab that was to take him to the
                    railway station. He cried quite as much as was good for him, however, went to
                    sleep in the train, and hardly woke up to know that he was being fed with sweet
                    bread-and-milk, and put to sleep in a bed like
                    the ones in the hospital. And, next day, there was the sand, wide and yellow and
                    wonderfully clean, with yellow sea-poppies and sea-thistles growing on one side
                    of it, and on the other the sea—blue and smooth, and going on and on and on and
                    on, for as far as you could see.
                “And farther,” said Jake to himself; “oh! very, very much farther.”
                He lay on the hot gold sand and looked at the hot gold sun, and the hot blue sky.
                    He was very comfortable. He had a soft clean shirt to wear, and a soft clean
                    sailor suit.
                No one knows how comfortable clean soft clothes are, unless they have had to wear
                    hard dirty ones all their lives, as Jake had done.
                He was only six; but six years are very long in Sutton Row.
                “I wish Sutton Row was like this 'ere,” he said; and then the wonderful thing
                    happened. My princess came to him quietly—from nowhere, as it seemed—and sat
                        down on the sand and held out her dear arms
                    to him.
                “Why!” she said, “it's you!”
                Jake owned that it was “me right enough.”
                “You're the little boy that——”
                “Yes,” said Jake, and wriggled on to her lap, and put his head on the kindest
                    shoulder in the world.
                “But how did you get here?”
                “Hospital,” said Jake enthusiastically. “Both my legs broke along of a keb going
                    over 'em. They've mended 'em up a bit, and they're going to get mended for good
                    in this 'ere sandy-sea-place. I say, ain't these 'ere jist a bit of all right?”
                    His thin sandy yellow claws played with her jingling bangles.
                “So you're going to get well here?” said my princess.
                Jake told her “Yes,” with many other things.
                The nurses in the hospital had been kind, kind, kind; but they had not nursed him
                    on soft laps of smooth blue stuff; their caps
                    were stiff, and their aprons, and they had not much time, anyhow, to nurse
                    little boys.
                “How soft and sweet you are,” said Jake. “You smells like the flower-stalls in
                    Goodge Street. Don't go away. I want to stay along er you.”
                “I'll come back,” said the lady who is my princess. “I'm going into the sea now.
                    I'm going to swim and see the seaweed floating like islands, and the fishes
                    swimming, and all the little shells and stones on the bottom of the sea. And
                    even a mermaid, perhaps, if I'm lucky.”
                “England's a island what we lives on. Sutton Court's part of it. I don't think
                    much of islands,” said Jake. “What's mermaids?”
                The lady told him a little about mermaids.
                “Are they kind and soft to sit on like you?” he asked.
                “They're always kind, at least I feel sure they are,” she said; “but they're cold
                    and slippery. It's nicer to be nursed by land people. But they live in pearly
                        houses under the sea, and no one is ever
                    cross, or angry, or hungry, or unhappy there.”
                “I should like to go there,” said Jake.
                “Perhaps we'll go together some day,” said my princess, and went to bathe.
                After that every day she talked to him and told him stories, and built
                    sand-castles with him, and gathered shells for him; and life became a perfectly
                    beautiful thing to Jake, because the sea and the sky and the sand are so good
                    and beautiful, and my princess is so beautiful and good.
                So every day he grew stronger and stronger, and his face grew brown that had been
                    so pale and lemon-coloured, and his blue eyes looked bluer than ever between
                    their tanned lids. And he knew now the names of shells, and of the little
                    sea-beasts that lie on the sand at low tide. And the sun shone every day and all
                    day long.
                Then quite suddenly the end came. He was cured, as far as he ever could be cured,
                    and he must go back to Sutton Street, to make room for some other sick child to
                        lie in his lovely, soft, white, clean bed,
                    and eat the good things that he so liked to eat, and to be nursed on the warm
                    beach by the lady who is the dearest in the world.
                They told him quite kindly, and he only said:
                “Must I really go home?”
                And they said yes, he must, really.
                “When?” said Jake.
                And they said to-morrow.
                That day, when the lady set him down on the warm sandy beach beside the castle
                    she had built for him, and went off for her bathe, he did not sit still as
                    usual, but went after her slowly, because of the broken legs that would never be
                    quite the same as legs that no cab-wheels had ever gone over. He saw her go down
                    the low, wooden pier in her white bathing-cloak, and at the end of the pier,
                    where the deep water was, she cast down her white cloak, and stood up in her
                    blue swimming-dress, and dived deep, deep into the water.
                Jake crept along over the rough timber of
                     the pier, that was warm to creeping hands and
                    knees, and came to the place where the tar was wet with the splash of the green
                    water that had covered his lady. She was swimming out to sea now; he could see
                    the darkness of her hair in a long streak behind her as she swam.
                Then he leaned over and looked down into the deeps of the water, but he could not
                    see the shells at the bottom, nor the mermaids, and he wanted to see them.
                “I think I will go and look,” said Jake to himself, “if my lady's there; or
                    perhaps they'll let me stay down there, along of her, and never go home no more.
                    There must be lots of room at the bottom of the sea.”
                The water was cold as it closed over his head, and there was a humming in his
                    ears like the snarling, moaning noise of London streets. Had he fallen asleep?
                    Had they taken him home without waking.
                “No, no,” Jake tried to say; “I don't want to go home. I won't go home.”
                
                And he sank to the bottom of the sea, and through it, and the floor of the sea
                    closed again behind him, and he was in another world. Have you never thought
                    that the floor of this world may be the sky of another world, just as the floor
                    of heaven is the same as our sky?
                He fell right through the sea-floor, and out of the sky of that lower world on to
                    its green meadows. And he did not hurt himself at all, because the big white
                    birds that live there came and carried him down on wings as soft as the lap of
                    any princess. They laid him down in a grassy green field where there were
                    daisies. White May-bushes grew all about, and at the end of the field was a
                    garden, with a red wall round it. There were trees leaning over the garden wall,
                    and on the trees strawberries and cherries and bananas and lettuces and oranges
                    were growing in rich profusion.
                “Oh, my,” said Jake, “if I only 'ad the key of the gate!” But when he got to the
                    gate, which was exactly like the gates of the
                    Square Gardens, he found that it was open, and he walked straight through. He
                    went up the path, between plants covered with strange and beautiful things. Some
                    of the shrubs had toys growing on them—soldiers and boxes of bricks and puzzles,
                    so that they looked like Christmas trees. He paused, entranced before the
                    beautiful, half-opened buds of a tin-soldier bush, and it was hard to pass the
                    tall tree among whose glossy leaves red and green indiarubber balls were
                    glistening in dewy freshness. And a top-tree, whose fruit was falling to the
                    ground with ripeness, held him for a moment. But he went on. He did not dare to
                    pick any of the toys.
                And presently he came to the house, which was queer but delightful. Gay-coloured
                    curtains fluttered at the upper windows, which were all open. And all the lower
                    windows were filled with nice things to eat, like the shops in Goodge Street.
                    The door was wide open, and quickly some one in blue skirts came flying through
                    it, and down the marble steps to meet him.
                
                “Why! it's you!” said Jake, as arms went round him, arms that he
                    knew.
                “Yes, dear. Aren't you glad you've come home?” said my princess's voice.
                “This ain't 'ome,” said Jake.
                “Oh yes, it is,” said she; “and you're going to live here for ever my own little
                    boy. Come along, let's go and pick strawberries.”
                The strawberries grew on tall trees, just like the ones in Bloomsbury Square; and
                    my princess bent down the branches, so that Jake could gather them for himself.
                    And she picked him a ball from the ball tree, and several buds from the
                    tin-soldier tree, and they sat and enjoyed everything on the smooth lawn in the
                    sunshine. There is a very nice sun in the under-sea world.
                “Lor',” said Jake, “ain't it prime? But what about the coppers? Won't they run us
                    in for setting about on the grass so free? Or p'r'aps you've got the key of the
                    gate.”
                “There aren't any keys here,” said my princess,
                    at least, if it wasn't my princess, I don't know who it could have been; “nobody
                    wants to lock up the grass or the strawberries, or the cakes. There's plenty for
                    every one.”
                “Don't no one ever eat too much?” asked Jake, who, a week before, had had his
                    lesson on this subject, illustrated by jam pudding.
                “Oh no,” the lady told him; “it's only when people aren't quite sure that there's
                    plenty for every one that they take too much.”
                “And what do they do here; not work, do they?” Jake was thinking of the fluffy
                    rabbit fur and his aunt's cough.
                “Oh yes; every one works, and so every one gets work done early, and
                    there is plenty of time to play. Look, there are the children coming out of
                    school.”
                The children came up a grassy avenue, skipping and running and laughing and
                    singing as they came. They all wore white smocks and leather belts, and their
                    feet were bare and brown on the green grass.
                    With them were grown-up people in clothes that looked comfortable as well as
                    pretty, and none of the ladies had the kind of hat that looks crooked and as
                    though it might blow off at any moment.
                “Why!” cried Jake, very much surprised, “nobody looks cross!”
                “Of course not,” said the lady; “why should they? work-time's over, and now it's
                    play-time, and presently it'll be sleepy-time. And then work-time again
                    to-morrow. Look! they're coming to ask you to play with them!” Jake waited,
                    thrilled with joy and pride.
                A brown-eyed child came, smiling shyly and kindly, and took Jake by the hand, and
                    led him away; and my princess sat on the marble steps of that beautiful house
                    and watched the games till Jake, tired out with pleasure, came to fill her hands
                    with the flowers he had gathered; and, sleepily happy, to lay his head in her
                    lap.
                “Work-time, play-time, sleepy-time,” she said; “I shall just have time to tuck you up in bed, my own little boy, and then I
                    must go.”
                “Go?” Jake was miserably awake in an instant. “You ain't going—not without
                    me?”
                “I must,” she said; “my work's not here, and I've got to go and do it. I shall
                    come back to you some day. But every one here is kind. You'll be very happy
                    here, dear.”
                “You ain't agoin' to go away—not without me,” said Jake, sniffing.
                “You'll be very, very happy here; you know you will, don't you, dear?” she said,
                    holding him close.
                But Jake would say nothing but, “You ain't agoin' away—not without me?” and he
                    said it over and over again.
                “But there's everything here that any one could want. Think of the strawberry
                    trees!”
                “I'd rather have you, a long sight,” he said. “And you ain't agoin' away without
                    me, are you?”
                “Would you rather have me, even,” said the lady,
                    who was either my princess or nobody, “even if we had to live in the old world
                    where so many people are unkind and stupid and dirty?”
                “Couldn't you learn them to be clean like me?” said Jake, fingering his soft
                    shirt proudly, “and kind like you?” he added, his arms round her neck.
                “We might try. But if you can't do without me, Jake, we must go back,
                        now. Are you sure you wouldn't like to stay here without me?
                    Going back will hurt you rather badly, dear.”
                “Bad as my legs?”
                “I don't know; worse perhaps.”
                “I don't care,” said Jake stoutly, “only you said I was to be your own little
                    boy.”
                “My own own little boy,” said the lady, “for ever and ever. Now, shut your eyes,
                    and I'll carry you, and try not to let the going back hurt you more than it
                    must.”
                It did hurt though, horribly. And when the hurting was over Jake was in bed in a
                    room with a window that looks over the sea—such
                    a pretty room Jake tells me—and the dearest lady in the world had got her dear
                    arms round him, and was looking at him, “with her eyes just like as if she'd
                    been crying,” Jake said.
                “Your own own little boy,” gasped Jake, and it was quite hard for him to speak at
                    all.
                “My very own,” said my princess. And so he is.
                
                I think I said that the most dear princess in the world told me this story, but,
                    of course, she didn't. She only told me quite a little bit of it, and by the
                    time she came to the end of that little bit her dear eyes looked just as Jake
                    had said.
                “You see,” she said, “he'd never have tumbled into the sea if I hadn't told him
                    that nonsense about mermaids. Because he went to look for them. So it was really
                    all my fault. So, of course, he belongs to me now. Don't you see?” I said I did
                    see, and we talked about other things. It was Jake who told me most of the
                        story, of course, and I never asked him to
                    explain the parts I didn't understand.
                So Jake is now “very own little boy” to my princess, and he will grow up to be a
                    prince, a very good and clever one, I think. Because, of course, he was a prince
                    by birth, and now he has come home to his kingdom of love and happiness. It is
                    an odd thing, considering that all little babies are born princes and
                    princesses, that so few of them come to their kingdoms in this world. There must
                    be a screw loose somewhere, don't you think?
            
            
                
                V
                THE DOG-DREAM
                
                THE DOG-DREAM
                HE had come out of school with the rest—the big, airy school, with
                    pictures on the white walls, and windows large enough to show the changing
                    shapes of clouds. It had been a good day; lessons had been easier than usual,
                    and teacher had read them a story of some naughty little boys who had thrown a
                    dog into the water and aimed stones at it, and about a good little boy who had
                    saved its life; and of how the dog had loved him ever after. The other boys came
                    out of school and went down the road shouting and larking. To Alf it seemed
                    better to go home the longer way, by the high-railed tarry path through the
                    gas-works, and to be, all the way, the hero of that story. He saw himself, proud
                    and defiant, standing up to those naughty boys—six at least; there must have been six—teacher had said “a number of
                    boys”—standing up to them “determined,” so the story had run, “to put an end to
                    their cruel sport.” He saw the number of boys “cowed by his brave demeanour.” He
                    saw the pond on the heath,—he had instantly visualised that as the scene of the
                    heroic act—the pond by the Hare and Billet; saw himself wading into the water
                    ankle-deep, knee-deep, then swimming—he must learn to swim. He felt in a sudden
                    thrill the rapture of the moment when he caught the dog; he pictured it
                    acquiescing gratefully in the rescue, and swam back to shore with it in his
                    arms. He heard the approving shouts of the crowd on the bank, even the lot of
                    bad boys “applauding the noble bravery of their late enemy.” The words stuck in
                    his head. Perhaps because he had no words of his own. For Alf was a timid,
                    silent mouse of a child. The contemplation of this imagined heroism stirred him
                    to the core. And the dog, “loving him ever after”—that opened a new heaven. He felt the warm, shaggy body between shirt
                    and jacket; he would carry the dog about with him as Abe Toovey's father carried
                    the bull-pup. He felt the cold, damp nose snuggled against his neck, the warm
                    tongue licking his ears. The dog would love him ever after. And here he lost
                    himself in a higher heaven still. How he would love the dog. How he would teach
                    it tricks, patiently, kindly. No beatings. He would save half his dinner for it,
                    the half of breakfast and supper, too, if such were the needs of the beloved.
                    The dream lasted till the end of the gas-works, there to break suddenly, like a
                    soap-bubble.
                His aunt would never let him keep a dog, never. But suppose he saw the dog
                    drowning; what could he do? Save it, and desert it? Never! The problem routed
                    the dream.
                He got home late for tea, and his aunt “warmed his ears for him,” a customary
                    ritual, involving but slight and fleeting emotion on either side.
                “Where you been, eh? Don't come no falsehoods
                    over me, my man. Out with it; playing along of them dirty board school boys,
                    I'll be bound. Which way did you come home?”
                “Gas-works,” said the child.
                “What was you doing?”
                “Nothink!”
                “There you go,” said the aunt, pushing his bread-and-butter across the clean
                    brown and mauve of the oilcloth-covered table. “Nothing! That's you all over,
                    that is. If you can't do nothing else, I should think you'd think about your
                    blessings. Many a norphan hasn't got a kind aunt to come home to, nor yet a tea.
                    How'd you like to be a workus' boy?”
                Alf knew that his aunt kept a clean house and a clean name in a world where both
                    were rare. He was grateful because he was not, as he well might have been, but
                    for her, a workus' boy.
                Yet all he found to say was “I dunno.”
                “There's gratitude,” said the aunt, and sniffed.
                
                Alf, silent, munched; drank gurglingly from a blue and white mug, put his arm
                    across his chest in the place where, in the dream, the dog had lain. Speech was
                    always strangely difficult to him.
                He spoke when he was spoken to, not otherwise; and not then, if speaking could be
                    avoided. But now, spurred by the dream, he spoke.
                “I say, aunt,” he said heavily.
                “Well, what d'you say?” The aunt's amazement was softened by a feeling that
                    perhaps Alf was “coming out.”
                “I wish I'd got a dawg.”
                “Bless and save us!” She looked round the kitchen, the cleanest, one supposes, in
                    that street, probably in that district. “A dog? Any one offered to give you a
                    dog?”
                “No,” said Alf.
                “That's all right. Where'd you get the seven-and-six for the license?”
                “I dunno,” said Alf; and indeed he did not. The idea was new and unpleasant. How
                    had he managed about that in the dream?
                
                He spoke again, and still with effort.
                “But s'pose I'd got the seven-and-six.”
                “Then it 'ud go to buy your new boots.”
                “I should like to 'ave a dawg.”
                “I dessay. And what about me, an' my clean floors, and jumping up on the
                    furniture? Like it to sleep with you, p'r'aps?”
                Alf made no answer to this bitter sarcasm. In point of fact, the idea had visited
                    him as a beautiful possibility.
                “If I 'ad a dawg,” the child went on, trembling with the agitation of a
                    conversation begun by himself, and with this new insistence of desire, “I'd
                    never want no more pennies—never no more, if I'd got a dawg.”
                “Go along with your dogs,” said the aunt briskly. “You get your lesson against
                    to-morrow, that's what you better do. And then go up to the heath and run about
                    a bit. You're as white as paper and as thin as a rat in an ironmonger's. You
                    don't never answer to your food, like some boys.”
                Something in the child's narrow face and large
                    eyes caught at her as she took up the tea-tray, and she paused a moment.
                “If we was in the country,” she admitted, “I'd as lief as not you kep a dog. It
                    could live in a bar'l in the yard. But in this bit of a place it ud turrify us;
                    no bounds to it.”
                Alf knew that “in the country” where dogs were possible to turrify means to
                    annoy. He had always had dreams ever since he could remember—dreams of the farm
                    in Kent that his aunt talked of, where the cherry orchards were, and the pears
                    on the side of the house, “so you could pick 'em outer window.” He had dreamed
                    of being King of England, with ermine robes, so jolly for the winter; and a gold
                    crown—less convenient, perhaps. But now the dog-dream drove all other dreams
                    away. The country—well, the central figure there was comfortable, not heroic.
                    Kings often did wrong, more often than not, the history books seemed to think.
                    But the boy who rescued a dog in distress, this was the real hero—the boy who
                    did the Really Right Thing, did it bravely, and
                    was rewarded by love given and returned.
                He had not found it possible to love his aunt, and there was no one else in his
                    world. In books boys loved their teachers. Alf was not in a book.
                He took the dream to bed with him. Oh, if he could only have taken the dog-alive,
                    warm, responsive, loving, and beloved!
                The dream was there when he awoke—he took it with him to school; and out of
                    school played with it near all the water he could find. By the Ravensbourne and
                    the Quaggy, by the ponds on the heath. Dogs he saw, a plenty, and boys. But the
                    boys were just boys who played, and the dogs were happy, barking and splashing,
                    bounding into the water of their own free, gay will, climbing out again with
                    agile, blunt-clawed feet, to bedew the bank and the onlookers with the scattered
                    spray of their shakings.
                “If only I could have a chance,” he said. Then the boys at school should see. “Cowardy custard,” they called him, because he
                    was appalled by the giant-stride, and “Miss Mum,” because he had no words, and
                    the swings made him sick. “I'd like them to be there when I pulled the dog out,”
                    he said, and pictured their faces. He had not learned to swim; the water did not
                    seem deep enough to make that worth while. The chance to save the dog was what
                    he longed for. And the chance came. Not exactly as he had pictured it. But then
                    our chances seldom do.
                It came one day by the little river, running full now, and swollen with two weeks
                    of heavy summer rain. The child, haunting the waterside as usual, saw a boy, a
                    well-dressed disagreeable-looking boy, dragging a rough brown dog by a string.
                    The dog's long hair fell over eyes that looked wild terror and appeal.
                “Go along in, then,” cried the boy, and threw a stone; “hi! fetch it!”
                The little dog cowered and pulled the string taut.
                
                “Go in. Fetch it, then!” the boy repeated. And still the dog cowered,
                    resistant.
                “You little beast!” said the dog's master between set teeth, drew in the string,
                    caught up the dog, and flung it far into the water.
                Alf thrilled; made a step; stopped. The dog was swimming. Had the dog in the
                    story been able to swim? It dragged itself ashore.
                “Come here, sir!” shouted its master.
                The little shrinking slave cowered and retreated.
                “Come here, sir!” the master got his foot on the end of the string.
                “I'll teach you to come when you're called,” said the young slave-driver. He
                    shortened the string, caught the dog by the neck, and Alf's heart thrilled to
                    the anguished cries of the helpless little slave. It was a swagger-stick, such
                    as soldiers carry—a horrible stick, with cruel knobs on it.
                “Stop it!” said a voice Alf did not know.
                “Mind—your—own—business,” said the other, with, between the words, full stops
                    that the blows made.
                
                “Stop it, I say!” said Alf in that new voice.
                Only the sound of the stick against soft flesh and bones answered. And at each
                    blow the dog cried out anew.
                Then Alf snatched at the dog, got it, held it tight. The other boy was coming at
                    him; he would take the dog away; would beat it again. Alf pushed; there was a
                    cry, a splash, and Alf ran. He paused under the railway arch; there was no
                    pursuit.
                What was he to do?
                He dared not take the dog home to his aunt. Perhaps Abe Toovey's father would
                    keep it till he could think of a way to make his aunt see how much he wanted it.
                    He buttoned the dog inside his coat—the dream-detail he had loved best. The dog
                    resisted till it felt the warmth of his breast, then it ceased to struggle, and
                    presently, as he walked, the cold nose was snuggled against his neck; the tip of
                    a warm tongue caressed his ear.
                The moment was the dearest the child had ever
                    known—the first glimmers of the love, given and returned, that was to light the
                    lamp of joy. A dream-jewel to be paid for by the whole dream-treasures of a
                    life.
                
                Before the magistrate next day, Alf, confused and dizzy with horror, heard how he
                    had stolen a valuable Aberdeen terrier, had made a murderous assault on a
                    harmless little boy, the son of an eminent solicitor, had tried to drown him,
                    had induced a schoolfellow to hide the stolen property—this a very damning
                    clause—with other offences.
                He tried to say that the harmless little boy was cruel—was beating the dog. All
                    sorts of people sprang up to say how gentle, how noble, how truthful, how good
                    to dumb animals the harmless little boy was.
                “The dog is very much attached to my son,” said the eminent solicitor, “if it
                    could be produced in court——?”
                The dog, at least, would bear witness for him. Alf's wide horror-filled eyes
                    fixed on the door by which the copper had gone out to fetch it. The dog would show before all the world
                    that love which had thrilled through them both when the wet body had lain
                    against the child's breast, the loving tongue had licked his ear.
                Some one said, “Let the dog loose.”
                Alf leaned forward, breathless. The solicitor's little boy whistled, and the dog
                    sprang to fawn, in this safe, dry place where was no river and no swagger-stick,
                    on the hand that had hurt so hardly.
                “You see,” said the solicitor, waving a large pink hand.
                Then, indeed, the child saw that he was alone. Even the dog... Face to face with
                    this mighty unexplained machinery of policemen and angry grown-up people, he was
                    dumb as any driven beast at the gate of the slaughter-house. He fought for
                    words. There must be something he could say to make them understand. He was
                    struggling in despair's deep waters, where words float out of reach before one
                    can grasp them. He clutched at a spar.
                
                “I wanted a dawg,” he said, scowling to keep back the tears.
                “Callous little ruffian,” said the solicitor's wife.
                “I wanted a dawg,” he said again. “I told aunt I wanted a dawg.”
                Evidence of premeditation.
                People told each other that this sort of child was a menace to society.
                The court was a sea of white and pink faces; waves of blackness surged across it.
                    “Reformatory” was the word that struck like a heavy club on a dark night.
                The aunt says that the disgrace has broken her heart.
                Something else was broken, too. Alf dreamed no more dreams.
                Nobody's fault, of course, least of all the fault of the majesty of the law.
                    Yet... that little, pitiful, dumb child; that irresistible tremendous
                    imperturbable majesty. And under majesty's triumphant chariot wheels, the poor
                    dreams, faded, crushed for ever in the filthy dust!
                
                 
            
            
                
                VI
                THE CRIMINAL
                To a child who is dead
                
                
                THE CRIMINAL
                To a child who is dead
                IT was Christmas time. The house was alive with children, and filled
                    with a rosy mist of open secrets. No one knew—yet how could one help
                    knowing—what gifts, under loving, clumsy fingers, were growing ready for The
                    Day. Only mother knew all the secrets. Most of them were locked in the
                    drawing-room, whose blinds were drawn down, as though there were some one dead
                    in the house, though no one thought of that then. In the drawing-room, too, were
                    the presents that were not secrets—the gifts of sweets and toys and clothes for
                    the poor little children, who had no nice homes and kind mothers, the children 
                        whom
                        who
                    , on Christ's birthday, at least, were remembered.
                Every one was very busy; no one had leisure for play. You were very little,
                        too little to carry out any generous
                    Christmas schemes of your own, and the others had no time to help you. You
                    wandered about the house, bored and forlorn, and you wished there could be
                    Christmas without all those locked doors, and things suddenly hidden when you
                    came in—this preoccupation of every one in preparations for what seemed a very
                    long way off. They did not want you in the schoolroom nor in the parlour, and in
                    the kitchen there was all the loud bustle of making ready for the great, greedy
                    feast that marks the beginning of our religion.
                So you went out, and looked at those windows whose blinds were drawn down,
                    and—you were always an adventurer—you climbed up, and opened the window very
                    cleverly with a knife that you took from the knife-box on the dresser when no
                    one was looking. Then you pushed back the stiff holland of the blinds, and got
                    in among the secrets. When your eyes became used to the yellow dusk that the
                    blinds made, you saw the Christmas tree with its many colours and faint glitterings in the dusk, and the little
                    table with your name on it, and many beautiful things there that were to be
                    yours when Christmas came. There were the tables of the others. There, also, on
                    a chair, were the little bags of sweets that you yourself had helped to tie up
                    with red wool for the poor little children with no nice homes and no kind
                    mothers. There were a great many bags, and you looked at them and wished you
                    were a poor little child, so that you might have one for your own. There were
                    sweets on your own table, but you knew that it would be greedy to touch these
                    before The Day. One of the red wool threads had caught in another and become
                    untied, you presently saw; the sweets were naked between the muslin edges of the
                    bag. A pink almond sweet lay almost outside. I wish you had not taken that pink
                    almond sweet. It was very good, and you took another. Outside the locked door
                    you heard feet and whisperings. You stood still, and your heart beat in your
                    throat with as real a suspense as comes to any
                    leader of a forlorn hope—any mountain climber on the summit of danger. The steps
                    passed. Still you stayed there, and presently the bag was empty. The sweets
                    tasted very good, but you wished you had not eaten them. Quite heart-brokenly
                    you wished it, as one does wish such vain things, but not as I wish it now.
                Of course, mother found out your crime quite soon; and when, with a strange,
                    changed face, she questioned you, you lied. There was a pulsating, confused
                    horror, then, of people who said they had seen you open the window; there was
                    the red of the sweets on your hands, the stickiness on your little lips that
                    lied and trembled. They said things to you about stealing and prison and
                    thieves—many words many times repeated. They told you how much worse it was to
                    rob the little children, who had no nice homes and kind mothers, than it would
                    have been to take something from your sisters' tables or your own. And they told
                    you how wicked it was to tell lies. And you had no answer to give. You were very little, you had indeed done this thing, and
                    you were sorry. They beat your little hands that had stolen, and they told you
                    that it hurt them more than it hurt you. Then they put you in the schoolroom,
                    and locked you in, and went away.
                You heard the key turn, and you were left alone with your crime—oh, my baby! your
                    crime and your vain repentance—quite alone. You held your burning, tingling
                    hands to your guilty mouth, breathing on them to dull the pain. The tears ran
                    down your dirty face, and there was no one to dry them. Your head ached with the
                    torture of the ordeal by question—it throbbed with the suddenness of all these
                    happenings. So little a time ago you were at peace with every one; every one
                    loved you; it was all so jolly. Now, your head ached; there was no kind shoulder
                    to lean it on; you went on crying all alone. By-and-by, you heard people laugh
                    on the stairs; you would have liked to kill them.
                
                Presently you stopped crying, and went to the window to press your nose against
                    the pane and look out over the desolated winter-garden.
                All the remorse of the criminal was yours.
                “If I had not done that, just that one thing, I should be like the others,” you
                    thought. And it had been so easy to do it. And the doing of it, that one little
                    thing had cut away from your feet the firm ground of love on which so far you
                    had confidently walked—cut it away perhaps for ever. How should you know?
                How did that day pass for you? It seemed as though it would never pass. They
                    brought your dinner on a tray. You spoke, and they did not answer. You
                    understood. No one would care to speak to such a wicked boy. You did not want
                    the dinner; but presently you ate it. It was something to do. The mug was your
                    own silver mug, that was always set at mother's side, where your place used to
                    be before you did this thing, and cut yourself off from all love and human companionship. You wondered
                    whether you would be kept here to-morrow and to-morrow again—always, and always
                    alone. They had not set any term to your imprisonment.
                Yet even in your prison your energy, your lively interest in life, did not wholly
                    leave you. After awhile you looked round for “something to do.” There were no
                    pretty secrets in the schoolroom now—all these had been carried away to leave a
                    clear space for your punishment. But scattered scraps of bright silk and velvet
                    from your sister's love-work lay all about, and there were crumpled
                    paper-wrappings, and, mercifully forgotten, scissors. You must have “cut out”
                    for a long time, there were so many snippings; and your paper men and women and
                    boats covered half the table. And on the floor you made a pattern of diamonds
                    and crosses with snippets of coloured silks and lumps of coal. Your mother saw
                    them late that night and brushed them into the hearth to save the servants work
                    in the morning. She did not know, alas! across
                    how many black nights that baby pattern would trace itself for her.
                When you heard a hand on the door you stopped your industry; any one opening
                    found you idle. You understood that your punishment was not meant to have any
                    alleviations of invention, interest, occupation.
                Now and again, through that endless day, the maid came in to mend the fire. She
                    would, perhaps, in her ignorance, have spoken kindly to you, and you would have
                    loved her for it, as a saint loves God; but your father and mother had seen to
                    it that your punishment was not rendered ineffective by any folly of sympathy.
                    This was to be a lesson to you.
                “Lying and stealing,” your parents told each other in the warm, lighted room
                    where they sat together, “we must break him of them. Yes, dearest,”
                    they said, consoling each other, “it's dreadfully sad for him, poor little chap,
                    but we must let it be a lesson to him, don't you see.”
                And they thought they saw.
                
                When your mother went at your bedtime to give you the final lecture—to rub it all
                    in over again, and at the last to stoop to forgiveness and accept your
                    breathless promises that you “never, never would again”—she found you asleep on
                    the hearthrug, your face incredibly dirty with tears and coaldust, and in your
                    hands the hearth-brush, on which, with cotton-ends, you had hung little screws
                    of crushed coloured silk. It had been a magic tree to your last waking thoughts,
                    and when your dreams brought you to an orchard of trees even more richly
                    enchanted it had, its use ended, fallen from your hands.
                Your mother carried you to bed, and undressed you. You did not wake. She did not
                    wake you even to wash you. The white sheets seemed then to matter not so much as
                    your sleep. She is glad to remember that now. You did not wake; only when she
                    kissed you, you reached up your dirty hands, from out of your sleep, and clasped
                    her neck very closely.
                
                She went down to your father and said, “Thank God, it's over. He's asleep. I do
                    think it will be a lesson to him.” And he also said, “Thank God it's over. It
                    will be a lesson.”
                Was it a lesson, dear? Your mother has thought that you learned something that
                    day in prison. She thinks now that your face, after that day, was not ever quite
                    the same again. There was something in it that had not before been there—the
                    shadow of the agony of a human soul that has felt itself forsaken.
                
                My son; my little son. Your mother knows all this now. How was it that she did
                    not know it then? The house is very quiet, because all the other children grew
                    up long ago, and went out into the world. The lamp has just been lighted, but
                    the blinds are not drawn down now. Outside, the winter dusk is deepening the
                    shadows in the garden where, in the days when the sun shone, you used to shout
                    and play.
                Do you remember, understand, forgive?
                
                I do not think that you forgive or do not forgive. I do not believe that you
                    remember now that quiet room which was your prison, the long hours when for the
                    first time you knew yourself alone.
                But you remember the sunny garden where you played, were noisy, were happy. You
                    remember, perhaps, hours when your mother was not your gaoler; when she held you
                    not in prison but in her arms that loved you—hours when you were not alone.
                These other things... it is your mother who has them to remember.
            
            
                
                VII
                THE LEFT-HANDED SWORD
                
                THE LEFT-HANDED SWORD
                HIS name was Hugh de Vere Coningsby Drelincourt, and he lived with his
                    mother in a queer red-roofed house incoherently built up against the corner of
                    the old castle that stands on the edge of the hill looking out over the marshes.
                    Once the castle and the broad lands about it had all belonged to the
                    Drelincourts, and they had kept great state there. But they had been loyal to
                    King Charles, and much went then. Later Hugh's father had spent what was left on
                    lawyers, gaining nothing. And now only the castle itself was left, and some few
                    poor fields. His mother was Lady Drelincourt by rights, and he himself, since
                    his father was dead, was Sir Hugh, but there was no money to keep up the title,
                    so she called herself plain Mrs. Drelincourt, and he was just Hugh. They lived very simply and kept cows and
                    pigs, and Hugh did lessons with his mother and was very happy. There was no
                    money to send him to school, but he minded that less than his mother did. It was
                    a pleasant little house, and all the furniture in it was old and very beautiful,
                    carved oak and polished apple-wood, and delicate lovely glass and china. But
                    there was often only bread and cheese to put on the china plates, and cold water
                    from the well in the castle courtyard to fill the Venice glasses.
                There were relics too—an old silver bowl with raised roses round the brim, and a
                    miniature or two, and a little sword that some boy Drelincourt had worn many
                    many years ago. This sword Hugh had for his very own, and it hung over the
                    mantelpiece in his bedroom. And the sword had been made for a left-handed little
                    boy, because all the Drelincourts are left-handed.
                Hugh used to wander about the old place, climb the old walls, and explore the old passages, always dreaming of the days
                    when the castle was noisy with men-at-arms, and gay with knights and ladies.
                Now the wild grasses and wallflowers grew in the rugged tops of the walls, and
                    the ways to the dungeons were choked with fern and bramble. And there was no
                    sound but the cooing of pigeons and the hum of wild bees in the thyme that grew
                    over the mounds beyond the moat.
                “You spend all your time dreaming,” his mother used to say, as she sat darning
                    his stockings or mending his jackets, “and the castle comes through all your
                    clothes.”
                “It comes through all everything,” Hugh would say. “I wish I could see it as it
                    was in the old days.”
                “You never will,” said his mother, “and isn't it beautiful enough as it is? We've
                    got a lovely home, my son, and we've got each other.”
                Then he would hug her and she would hug him, and he would try to pay more
                    attention to his lessons, and not so much to the castle.
                
                He loved his mother very much, and did many things to please her—lessons and
                    errands and work about the house; and once when she was ill, and a silly woman
                    from the village came in to do the housework, he mounted guard on the stairs all
                    day, so that the woman should not disturb his mother with silly questions about
                    where the soda was kept, and what dusters she was to use.
                So now he tried to think less of the castle; but for all his trying the castle
                    filled his life with dreams. He explored it and explored, till he thought he
                    knew every inch of it.
                One wall of Hugh's bedroom was just the thick, uneven stones of the old castle
                    wall, against which the house was built. They were grey with time, and the
                    mortar was crumbling from between them; the fires he had in the room in the
                    winter, when he had colds, dried the mortar and made it crumble more than ever.
                    There was an arch in this wall that had been filled up, in forgotten days, with heavy masonry. Hugh used to
                    watch that arch, and wish it was a door that he could get through. He could not
                    find the other side of it, though he had searched long and well.
                “I expect it was only a cupboard,” his mother said, as she peeled the potatoes or
                    made the puddings; “I wouldn't worry about it if I were you.”
                Hugh did not worry about it, but he never forgot it. And when the next winter he
                    had one of those bad colds that made his mother so anxious, and caused him to be
                    tormented with linseed poultices and water-gruel and cough-mixture and
                    elder-flower tea, he had plenty of time to think, and he thought of the arch,
                    and of nothing else.
                And one night, when his mother had gone to bed, tired out with taking all sorts
                    of care of him, he could not sleep, and he got out of bed and fingered the
                    stones inside the arch as he had so often done before, to see if any one of them
                    was loose. Before, none ever had been—but now... oh, joy! one was loose. The fire had dried the old mortar to mere
                    dust that fell away as Hugh's fingers pulled at the stone—weakly, because his
                    cold had really been a very severe one. He put out all the strength he could,
                    however, and pulled and tugged and twisted, and shifted the stone, till it was
                    quite loose in its place, and at last, with the help of the poker, he prised it
                    out, and difficultly put it on the floor.
                He expected to see a dark hole, through which a cold wind would blow; but no cold
                    wind blew, and curiously enough, the hole was not dark. There was a faint grey
                    light, like the light of daylight in a room with a small window.
                Breathless and eager, he pulled out another stone. Then his heart gave a jump and
                    stood still. For he heard something moving on the other side of the arch—not the
                    wind or rustling leaves or creaking tree-boughs, but something
                        alive. He was quite as brave as most boys, and, though his
                    heart was going like a clock when you have wound it up, and forgotten to put on the pendulum, had the
                    courage to call out:
                “Hullo! who's there?”
                “Me,” said a voice on the other side of the arch. “Who are you?”
                “Who are you, if it comes to that?” Hugh asked cautiously.
                “Sir Hugh de Drelincourt,” said the voice from the hole in the wall.
                “Bud thad's by dabe,” said Hugh with the cold in his head; and as he
                    spoke another stone disappeared, and the hole was larger. Now in silence two
                    pairs of hands worked at loosening the stones from the crumbling mortar.
                “Ibe cobing through,” said Hugh suddenly; “the hole's big edough.”
                And he caught the little sword from the wall, and he set his knee on the bottom
                    of the hole and through he went.
                Through into a little room whose narrow window showed the blue day-lit sky—a room
                    with not much in it but a bed, a carved stool, and a boy of his own age, dressed
                        in the kind of dress you see in the
                    pictures of the little sons of Charles the First.
                “Why, you're me!” the strange boy said, and flung his arms round him. And Hugh
                    felt that he spoke the truth. Then a sudden great fear caught at him; he threw
                    off the other boy, and turned to go back quickly into his own room, with the
                    dancing firelight and the cough-mixture and the elder-flower tea.
                And then a greater fear wiped out the first, as a great wave might wash out a
                    tear-mark on the sea-sand. For the hole in the wall was no more there. All the
                    wall was unbroken and straight and strongly stony. And the boy who had been so
                    like him was there no longer. And he himself wore the laced breeches, the little
                    handsome silk coat, the silk stockings and buckled shoes of that other boy. And
                    at his side hung his own little left-handed sword.
                “Oh, I'm dreaming,” said Hugh. “That's all right. I wonder what I shall dream
                    next!”
                
                He waited. Nothing happened. Outside the sun shone, and a rainbow-throated pigeon
                    perched in the window preened her bright feathers.
                So presently he opened the heavy door and went down a winding-stair. At its foot
                    was a door opening on the arched gateway that he knew so well. A serving-man in
                    brown came to him as he passed through the door.
                “You lazy young lie-a-bed,” he said, “my lady has asked for you three times
                    already——”
                “Where is my lady?” Hugh asked, without at all knowing that he was going to ask
                    it.
                “In her apartments, where any good son would have been with her,” said the
                    serving-man.
                “Show me where,” said Hugh.
                The serving-man looked at him, and nodded to a group of men in armour who stood
                    in the gatehouse.
                “'Mazed,” he said, touching his forehead,
                    “'mazed, with the cannons and the shoutings and the danger, and his father cold
                    in the chapel, and... Come, lad,” he said, and took Hugh's hand in his.
                Hugh found himself led into a long, low room, with a square wooden pattern on the
                    ceiling, pictures along one side, and windows along the other. A lady, with long
                    curls, a low-necked dress, and a lace collar, was stooping over an open chest
                    from which came the gleam of gold and jewels. She rose as his shoes pattered on
                    the floor.
                “My son,” she said, and clasped him in her rich-clad arms, and her face, and her
                    embrace, were the embrace and the face of his own mother, who wore blue cotton
                    and washed the dishes in the little red-tiled castle house.
                “All is lost,” said the lady, drawing back from the embrace. “The wicked
                    Roundheads have almost battered in the east wall. Two hours at least our men can
                    keep them out. Your father's at peace, slain while you were asleep. All our
                    wealth—I must hide it for you and for the
                    upkeep of our ancient name. Ralph and Henry will see to it, while you and I read
                    the morning prayers.”
                Hugh is quite sure that in that long pleasant gallery, with the morning sun gay
                    in the square garden outside, he and his mother read the prayers, while some
                    serving-men staggered out with chest upon chest of treasure.
                “Now,” his mother said, when the prayers were ended, “all this is in the vault
                    beneath your bed-chamber. We will go there, and I will lie down a little on your
                    bed and rest, for, indeed, I am weary to death. Let no man enter.”
                “No man shall enter. I will keep guard,” said Hugh, “on the stairs without,” and
                    felt proudly for his little sword at his side.
                When they had come to that little room he kissed the silk-clad lady that was his
                    mother, and then took up his station on the stairs outside.
                And now he began to hear more and more loudly the thunder of artillery, the stamping and breathless shouting of fighting
                    men. He sat there very still, and there was no sound from the chamber where his
                    mother lay.
                Long, very long, he waited there, and now there was no thought in him of its
                    being a dream. He was Hugh de Drelincourt; the Roundheads were
                    sacking his father's castle; his father lay in the chapel, dead, and his mother
                    slept on the bed inside. He had promised that none should enter. Well, they
                    should not.
                And at long last came the clatter of mail on the stairs, and the heavy sound of
                    great boots, and, one above another, heads in round steel caps, and shoulders in
                    leather came round the newel of the little stair.
                “A page-in-waiting,” cried the first man; “where is your lady, my young imp?”
                “My lady sleeps,” Hugh found himself saying.
                “We have a word for your lady's ears,” said the round-capped man, trying to push
                    past.
                
                 
                
                “Her ears are not to be soiled by your words,” Hugh was surprised to hear himself
                    say.
                “Don't thou crow so loud, my young cockerel,” the man said, “and stand back, and
                    make room for thy betters.”
                The round caps and leather shoulders pushed upward, filling, crowding the
                    staircase.
                “Stand back!” they all cried, and the foremost drew a big sword, and pointed it,
                    laughing, at the child.
                “'Tis thou shalt stand back!” Hugh cried, and drew his own little left-handed
                    blade. A great shout of laughter echoed in the narrow staircase, and some one
                    cried, “Have a care, Jeremiah, lest he spit thee like a woodcock!”
                Hugh looked at the coarse, laughing faces, and saw, without looking at it, the
                    dear, quiet face that lay in the room behind him.
                “You shall not speak to her!” he cried, and thrust furiously with
                    the little sword. The thrust was too fierce. It carried him forward on to the point of that big sword. There was
                    a sharp pain in his side, a roaring in his ears: through it all he heard: “This
                    for our pains; a dead woman and a little child slain!” Then the roaring
                    over-powered everything—the roaring and the pain, and to the sound of heavy feet
                    that clattered down the stairs he went out of life, clutching to the last the
                    little sword that had been drawn for Her.
                
                He was clutching the iron edge of his bed, his throat was parched and stiff, and
                    the pain in his side was a burning pain, almost unbearable. “Mother!” he called,
                    “Mother, I've had such a dreadful dream, and my side does hurt so!”
                She was there even as he called—alive, living, tenderly caressing him. But not
                    even in the comfort of her living presence, with the warmth of linseed poultices
                    to the side that hurt, of warm lemon drink to the parched throat, could he tell
                    a word of his dream. He has never told it to any one but me.
                
                “Now let this be a lesson to you, my darling,” his mother said; “you must
                        not climb about in those windy walls and arches in this sort of
                    weather. You're quite feverish. No wonder you've had bad dreams.”
                But the odd thing is that nothing will persuade Hugh that this was only a dream.
                    He says he knows it all happened—and, indeed, the history books say so too. Of
                    course, I should not believe that he had gone back into the past, as he says,
                    and seen Drelincourt Castle taken by the Roundheads, but for one curious little
                    fact.
                When Hugh got well of his pleurisy, for that was the name the doctors gave to the
                    pain that came from a dream sword-wound in his side, he let his mother have no
                    peace till she sent for Mr. Wraight, the builder at Dymchurch, and had all the
                    stones taken out of that arch. And, sure enough, beyond it was a little room
                    with a narrow window and no door. And the builder's men took up the stone floor,
                    because nothing else would satisfy the boy,
                    and sure enough again, there was a deep vault, and in it, piled one on top of
                    the other, chests upon chests of silver plate, and gold plate, and money, and
                    jewels, so that now Lady Drelincourt can call herself by that gentle title, and
                    Sir Hugh was able to go to Eton and to Oxford, where I met him, and where he
                    told me this true tale.
                
                And if you say that the mother of Hugh de Drelincourt, who died to defend his
                    mother from the Roundheads, could not have been at all like the mother of little
                    Hugh, who lived in the red-tiled castle house, and drank the elder-flower tea,
                    and loved the left-handed sword that hung over his mantelpiece, I can only say,
                    that mothers are very like mothers here, there, and everywhere else, all the
                    world over, when all is said and done.
            
            
                
                VIII
                THOR AND THE HAMMER
                
                THOR AND THE HAMMER
                Miranda's Story
                ONCE upon a time there was a little girl who lived with her mother in a
                    little house in the corner of a large park. The park really belonged to Lord
                    Elstead, who lived in the big house with the hundred and fifteen windows, but
                    the little girl enjoyed it much more than Lord Elstead did, because she was
                    always playing in it, and he wasn't. At least if he did she never saw him. She
                    used to meet him sometimes in the fine lime avenue, walking along with a stick.
                    His hair was white, and his face was wrinkled and reddy-brown like an apple that
                    has been kept over Christmas. When he met the little girl he used to say
                    good-morning if she said it to him first, and once when it was her birthday he
                    gave her a gold piece. She often wondered how
                    he knew it was her birthday. The little girl's mother said that she had never
                    told him when the little girl's birthday was, and the little girl——
                I cannot go on like this. I thought at first I could write it like a story-book,
                    but it is so dull, and writing “the little girl” every time instead of “me” and
                    “I” is just silly. The gentle reader will now see that that little girl was me
                    myself.
                I always loved the park better than anything. I neyer cared a straw about going
                    walks on roads—silly straight things. I liked it all; the trees, and the deer,
                    and the foreign cattle, as long as they did not come too close with their
                    horns—and the acorns and chestnuts and beechnuts and May-trees and buttercups
                    and daisies and red sorrel. I used to think Elstead Park was the most lovely
                    place in the world, and fit for a king. And I think so still, though what this
                    story is about happened more than a year ago. I think I have a constant
                    nature.
                Ours was a jolly little house and we had one
                    servant, and mother gave me lessons herself, so there was no going to school. I
                    think now that some little girls might have found it dull, but I never did, so I
                    suppose I had a contented mind even when I was only nine. The only thing I
                    wanted was some other little girls to play with.
                What I am going to say began to happen the day I saw Lord Elstead sitting on one
                    of the half-moon stone benches that are at the place where the two avenues
                    cross. He looked like a greenish apple that day instead of like a ripe one as
                    usual, so I said:
                “Don't you feel well?”
                And he said, “I'm better now.”
                I said, “Can I fetch anything for you? Would you like some Ody?”
                “What?” was what he said. (Mother says you ought to say “What did you say?”)
                So I said, “Ody Klone, like mother has when her head aches?”
                “No, thank you,” he said.
                I then sat down beside him in case he was going
                    to have a fit or anything, so that I could run for the men to take him home on a
                    hurdle, and send the best horse in the stables to fetch the doctor. You should
                    always try to be useful if you can. I was not very sorry for him till he kissed
                    me and said, “You're a good, kind little girl,” and then I was very sorry. So I
                    said, “Shall I go along with you till you get to the Hall in case you feel green
                    again?” And he said, “No, thank you, my dear. Run along now. I'm quite well. I
                    must come down and see your mother to-morrow.” And he kissed me again, and I
                    went home.
                And that was every word either of us remarked. I know, because I've tried again
                    and again to remember if there was anything else, and however hard I try there
                    never is.
                Mother looked very odd when I told her he was coming to see her, and made me tell
                    her exactly what him and me had both said. And I truthfully did, just like I've
                    done to you.
                And next morning she and Ellen turned out the
                    sitting-room and the hall—not a once-a-week turn-out, but more like a wild,
                    fleet spring cleaning, and by three it was all beautiful, and that nice
                    turpentiny smell that means it's been the day for the room to be “done.” Mother
                    put on her best dress, and I had a clean pinny.
                But Lord Elstead never came. Because he was dead. They found him dead in the
                    library where all the wonderful brown powdery-looking books are. He was leaning
                    on a table over an old desk that he used to use. It had belonged to his son that
                    died in the wars in India, when he was quite young. I thought that was very
                    touching, because my own daddy died in the Indian Frontier wars; and if you
                    think it was silly of me all I can say is mother was as bad, for when she heard
                    it she cried.
                Mother seemed very restless and odd, and kept walking about the house and taking
                    things up and putting them down just where they were before. She was like this
                    until the day Lord Elstead was buried. But
                    when the bell tolled in that dreadful black way it does for funerals she pulled
                    down all the blinds and sat down and began to cry. So, of course, I said what
                    was it, and hugged her, and said, “Don't cry,” like you have to when people are
                    like that.
                And she dried her eyes quite soon, because she is very brave like heroines and
                    Joan of Arc, and said:
                “Some one's sure to tell you if I don't, and I'd rather you heard it from
                    me.”
                I said, “Heard what, mother?”
                “We shall have to go away from here, Miranda,” she said then; “and I don't know
                    what will become of us!”
                Then she took me on her lap and told me with suddenness that Lord Elstead was my
                    grandfather, only he had quarrelled with her because his son married her, and it
                    was really my daddy's desk he had died leaning on, and his son Charles was the
                    same as my daddy, but my daddy's name was different because lord's sons don't
                    have their father's names till they are dead—the fathers, I mean. And he had let mother have the little house and
                    enough money to buy clothes, and things for us to eat, but he hadn't ever spoken
                    to her, because it was through daddy wanting to marry mother that Lord Elstead
                    had quarrelled with his son. As if it was mother's fault that she was so nice
                    and dear that people wanted to marry her!
                “And I did think he'd have left us something in his will,” mother said; “but he
                    hasn't, or I should have been asked to come and hear it read. And now all the
                    property will go to Mr. Egbert—he'll be Lord Elstead now, of course—and
                        he'll never let us have a penny of it.”
                I said, no; I didn't think he would. Because I'd seen Mr. Egbert quite often, and
                    he was one of these fair, sleek, smooth people that I don't like, with little
                    pig's eyes. They never like me either.
                Then everything was very uncomfortable. Mr. Egbert, who was Lord Elstead now,
                    sent word mother was to go in a month, and there was to be a sale at the
                        Hall. Mr. Egbert was going to let the
                    Hall, and sell the furniture, and go and spend the money in Paris, and at a
                    place called Bridge where he'd lost a lot of money before. Ellen told me
                    this.
                The day the sale began mother went away in the train to find a place for us to
                    live in, aid before she went she said, “I should have liked to buy something at
                    the sale, something that belonged to your father.”
                I said, “Why don't you, then, mother?” And she said because she was poor now, and
                    must take care of every penny.
                Then she kissed me, and I saw her out at the gate and watched her as far as the
                    corner, so as to be ready to wave when she looked back for a last farewell, and
                    then I went into the house and began to be most dreadfully unhappy.
                I hadn't seen before that I was going to be taken away from the little house in
                    the park, and from the park itself. But I did not cry. I thought I would try to
                    think, instead, like people do in books, about ways of making money. But it is much harder to think than
                    you'd think it was. And the more I tried to think the more there wasn't anything
                    to think of; and all the money I had in the world was the gold money-piece Lord
                    Elstead had given me.
                So I went to the window and watched the people going up through the park to the
                    sale, some in carts and some in carriages, and some on bikes, and some on their
                    own large feet. I hated the way they trampled with them on the edges of the
                    grass, not keeping well on the grass or quite on the drive as everybody knows
                    you ought to do, especially when your feet are that size. And I hated to think
                    of them going in and trampling on the polished floors, and perhaps sitting on
                    the chairs with the gold backs that Ellen and I saw once when Lord Elstead was
                    away, and we peeped in at the drawing-room window, that is at the end, close to
                    where the big yew-hedge ends, so as to be convenient for getting away unseen if
                    any one came along. And I hated, most of all,
                    to think of the furniture and the big chandelier with the crystal drops, and the
                    pictures and books and everything being sold, perhaps to these people with the
                    boots that didn't understand about grass edging.
                Then Ellen came and said would I mind being left; her heart was set on going up
                    to the Hall to have a look at the house and the furniture and all. “It's a thing
                    I've often had a mind to,” she said, “and now's me chance or never. And I never
                    see a sale, and I'd like to be able to say I'd seen me lord's things sold.”
                So I said I didn't mind, and she went.
                And then quite suddenly the great idea happened to me, and I just did that idea
                    that very minute without stopping to think about whether I should or shouldn't.
                    If you stop to think about a great idea, as often as not you never do it at
                    all.
                I washed my hands and face very nicely and brushed my hair, and put on my best
                    summer dress, which was white, with little blue flowers on it, and my best hat;
                        and I got my white silk church-gloves out
                    of mother's corner drawer. Then I got out the gold money-piece Lord Elstead had
                    given me, and I tied it up in the corner of one of mother's best hankies; I
                    thought she wouldn't mind just that once. Then I printed very big on an
                    envelope: “Gone to the Sale,” and I put it under the knocker and shut all the
                    downstairs windows, and locked the doors back and front, and put the key under
                    the water-butt like mother used to when me and her went out and Ellen hadn't
                    come back yet from her errands. I was quite careful about everything. And then I
                    went up to the Hall by a short cut over the grass and through the beech-wood. It
                    brings you out by the stable-yard. There were a lot of people standing about,
                    and the big front steps that are like terraces were dirty and littered with
                    straw and bits of paper and string and all sorts of untidiness. I don't know how
                    they got there. Mother says sales are always like that.
                
                There were crowds of people there, all the ones I had seen going up along the
                    grass edge, and many more who must have come by the other avenues. I went
                    through the crowd, looking as prim as I could, so that they should think, “What
                    a good little girl; of course she is looking for her relations,” and not stop me
                    to ask what I was doing there.
                I think my heart must be like Ellen's, because what I had always wanted, too, was
                    to see all over the Hall, and that day I did—even the servants' bedrooms that
                    open out of a passage that goes round like a hoop up in the dome at the top of
                    the house. There were people everywhere, looking about, and the furniture was in
                    the big rooms, but all the bronze things and Chinese vases and pictures and
                    pretties were not there. And no one said anything to me, and I never saw Ellen
                    at all, from beginning to end.
                I looked all over the house, but I saw nothing that looked small enough for me to
                    be able to buy even with my gold money-piece.
                
                When I came down the stairs, which are marble and very like a fairy palace, I saw
                    a fat shopkeeping-looking man I thought seemed kind, so I said to him, “Please,
                    what have they done with the little things?” And he replied:
                “They're a-sellin' of 'em now, missy, in the dining-room. Objects of Heart and
                    Virtue.”
                “Are you going to buy any?” I said; and he said:
                “No, I ain't on in that piece. Tables and chairs is what I'm after, and I see
                    they won't come on till to-morrow. Where's the dining-room? Along there where
                    you see the folks thick round the door like bees agoin' to swarm.”
                I walked right down the hall. It was like walking up to your pew in church, only
                    your boots didn't seem so loud as they do on Sundays. And I asked the biggest of
                    the outside bees if they were selling the little things in there.
                He was a very kind man, and a farmer, I found out later.
                
                “They are,” he replied. “Are you looking for any one, my dear? Can I help you to
                    find any one?”
                So I said, “No, thank you.” And then he said what I had been so afraid of some
                    one saying:
                “Then what are you doing all alone here?” I was very frightened then that they'd
                    turn me out, so I said:
                “It's open to everybody to-day, isn't it?”
                He laughed, and said, “Yes, it was. But wouldn't mother be wondering where on
                    earth her little gell had got to.”
                So then I saw he would be nice about it, and I said:
                “I want to buy something at the sale for mother, because Lord Elstead that is
                    dead was my grandfather, only he quarrelled with mother; but his son Charles
                    that died in India was the same as my daddy that died there too, and mother
                    wanted something that belonged to daddy, only we're poor now because Lord
                    Elstead didn't leave us any money when he died, and Mr. Egbert isn't the sort of person to give anything to any one.
                    So you see.”
                But although I had explained it all so plainly he didn't see, and I
                    had to say it all over several times before he said:
                “By George! If that isn't a shame. Come on, me little dear; I'll get you into the
                    front row, and we'll see if I can't keep the bidding down if you see any little
                    thing you fancy.”
                He picked me up and carried me; I should be much too old for it now. He was
                    nearly as big as a bull, so it was quite easy for him; and he got the people to
                    move and let us in through the crowd, which was rather dusty, and smelt of
                    people and everyday clothes like in church on a wet Wednesday evening.
                The dining-room was full of people, and in the middle there was a big
                    dinner-table and a carpet spread on it instead of a table-cloth; and at one end
                    a little table and chair on the big table, and a man with a hammer
                    knocking on the little table, and saying:
                
                “Number one hundred and fifteen, a graceful group in bronze; girl taming a wild
                    horse. Now, gentlemen, what offers?”
                I remember that, because of there being the same number of windows in the
                    Hall.
                The man that was carrying me squeezed through the crowd till he got to the front,
                    and then he stood me on the table and kept his big arm round me. Of course every
                    one looked at me, and of course I must have felt shy with so many people looking
                    at me. But I only remember feeling glad I had my best frock on.
                The man with the hammer said, “That little lot for sale?” and every one laughed;
                    but not at me, so I didn't mind. My man said, “The little lady's a buyer, sir;
                    only put her here to get her level with the other buyers so as she can see how
                    buying's done.”
                And then a lot of different people said very quickly indeed:
                “Pound.”
                “Ten.”
                
                 
                
                “Two.”
                “Ten.”
                “Three.”
                Then the hammer man, who I will now call Thor, because of the heathen god of that
                    name, looked round about, and some of the people nodded, and he suddenly
                    hammered with his hammer and said, “Twenty-two ten! Mr. Jacobs? Right,” and the
                    girl and the wild horse were lifted off, and a tortoiseshell and silver cabinet
                    put up. Thor acted as before, and so did the buyers, and this went on with lots
                    of things. I whispered to my man would all the things be as dear as this, and he
                    said wait a bit.
                So I waited, and looked over the heads of the people, and wished they weren't
                    going to take all the beautiful things away. Silver candlesticks and trays and
                    carved ivory chessmen and pagodas and mirrors with china roses for frames—all
                    sorts of lovely things, but everything costing more than twenty times my gold
                    money-piece that I had got tight in my hand inside my pocket tied up in one of mother's best hankies. And I got very
                    tired.
                Then at last the men who fetched and carried the beautiful things brought a
                    little desk with brass corners, and Thor looked surprised and said something to
                    his priest—I mean the man who was writing at the table. The man whispered back
                    and then Thor said:
                “Gentlemen, a melancholy interest attaches to lot one hundred and seventy. It was
                    this very desk, formerly the property of his deceased son, that the late Lord
                    Elstead habitually wrote at and that he was pondering over at the time of his
                    demise. A pair of exceptional Sheffield plate candlesticks will perhaps appeal
                    to those who are insensible to merely sentimental associations. What shall we
                    say for the desk and the candlesticks? A pound to begin, gentlemen?”
                Then I saw I must be very quick before some one offered twenty pounds as usual,
                    so I said:
                “Please, may I have it?” Every one laughed, but
                    my man didn't; and I went on, “I've got a pound, and I want it for mother,
                    because it was my daddy's, and Lord Elstead was my grandfather.”
                Thor whispered again to his priest, and the priest whispered back.
                And a man near me said, “That's quite correct, sir,” and all the village people
                    that knew us nodded. So then Thor said, “Well, gentlemen, shall I knock it down
                    to the little lady. It's not much out of such a fine collection. Shall we
                    say——”
                “Oh, don't say ten, anybody,” I called out, “because I've only got a gold pound,
                    and I do so want the desk.”
                Then quite a lot of people called out, “Let the child have it,” and a lot of
                    others said it was a shame, so it was. And I held out my pound, and people
                    passed it up to Thor, and passed the desk down to me, and the candlesticks.
                And then I forgot that I had my best frock on, and I began to cry. I can't think
                    what for.
                
                My man was very kind. He said, “There, there. Think how pleased mother will be.
                    And what a brave girl it is to come to a auction all on her own, and buy a lot
                    like this at her own price.”
                I got my arms round his neck, and said in his ear, “Oh, I do want to go home.” I
                    didn't even say, “Thank you” to him for being so kind.
                He got out, carrying me and the desk, and I carried the candlesticks.
                And when we got into the hall there was mother, and she looked rather cross.
                    She'd found the paper I left under the knocker and come after me.
                She said, “Miranda, how could you be so naughty?”
                And I did think it hard, when I'd only done it for her, and spent my very own
                    money. But my man made it all right. He said I was a girl in a thousand, and
                    made mother and me come into a little side-room where nobody was, only a table
                    and some chairs and a big rolly-top desk and
                    an iron safe that locks thickly. It is the steward's room where he pays the
                    wages. Then he said:
                “Set you down, mum, and let little missy set down here in the big chair, and look
                    at the pretty present she's bought you with her own money, a dear.”
                So I sat and looked at the candlesticks and the desk; and he talked to mother in
                    significating whispers, like in books.
                The candlesticks were dull, but I liked the desk, and I hoped mother would let me
                    write on it sometimes if I ever had any little girl friend to write to. There
                    was nothing in it, but there were places for ink and pens and so on, and three
                    little brass knobs, quite tiny, just to ornament it. I was fidgetting with the
                    brass knobs, and hoping mother wouldn't be cross long—she generally isn't—when
                    she came quite suddenly and kissed me, and said, “Thank you, my own darling,
                    foolish, dear one,” and I sort of clutched at one of the knobs; and something went “bang” in the desk, and a long narrow
                    drawer jumped out at me from the desk's side.
                So we all said, “Oh!”
                There was nothing pretty in the drawer. If you expected it to be diamonds and
                    pearls you are now more disappointed than I was, because I didn't expect
                    anything. All there was in it was a folded paper. If grown-ups read this story
                    they will guess what it was. If you are a child, you perhaps won't, any more
                    than me.
                I said, “Here's a letter or something, mummy,” and she took it and opened it and
                    read it. And then she showed it to my man, in such a queer way, as if she didn't
                    want to, yet couldn't help it.
                My man read it too, and his straw-coloured eyebrows went up and down like as if
                    you were pulling them with elastic. And he laid the paper on the table, and he
                    slapped one of his big knees with one of his big hands, and said:
                “By George, now! I wouldn't have missed it for
                    twenty pound—little missy she deserves it if ever a kid did, asking your pardon,
                    mum, but I've got five of me own. Giving up her pound to please you! Talk of
                    sprats to catch salmons,” and a lot more nonsense, but very kind. Then he held
                    out his hand to mother, and she took it in both hers. I never noticed before how
                    different her hands were to his.
                Mother licked her lips; she really did; with her tongue. She always told me not
                    to, but she said afterwards, when I asked her, they were so dry she couldn't
                    have spoken if she hadn't, and she said:
                “It is all right?”
                And my man said, “Right as rain, mum. I'm dead certain of it; and I wish you joy,
                    you and the little un. I do, upon my Sam.”
                I don't know what his Sam was, because he was standing on the steward's room
                    carpet; it had a pattern of violet roses, rather ugly. And mother had her arm
                    round me all the time.
                “I take it you'd like the sale stopped,” he
                    said; and I said, “I would,” and he laughed. Mother did something
                    that I didn't know whether it was laughing or crying.
                My man after this went straight back to where they were selling the Heart and
                    Virtue, and I heard every word he said because the steward's room door was open
                    and close to the dining-room which he couldn't get into, owing to the bees. He
                    shouted:
                “Hold hard, mister,” and I heard the voice of Thor, which had been going on all
                    the time, stop suddenly, and my man went on:
                “That desk and candlesticks what the little lady bought, with her own only
                    money—it's got a new will in it, and it leaves this place and everything in it
                    to her. And her mother in trust. No, sir; course I ain't kidding. This 'ere
                    sale's got to stop. It's 'ard on the brokers, but them as knows the kiddie and
                    her ma 'll give three cheers for the rightful heir.”
                They gave three cheers, and then Thor and some other men came in, and mother
                    showed the paper, and my man took me out on
                    the terrace and told me to look out on the park, and said:
                
                    
                        “The woods and the glens and the towers that we see
                        They all are belonging, dear baby, to thee.”
                    
                
                I wasn't a baby, of course, but he meant to be kind; he said he had got the
                    poetry out of the Glee Club for Male Voices, and he had never thought to see the
                    day. Then he told me (not in poetry, which is difficult and you never know
                    whether it means what it says) that Lord Elstead, who was my grandfather, had
                    made a will and left the Hall and the park and a lot of money to me, and mother
                    to take care of it for me till I was old enough.
                
                So now the park is ours and the Hall and all the lovely things; and Mr. Egbert,
                    with the fair-sleekness, has a house in London and quite a lot of money that was
                    his mother's. And we shan't sell the beautiful things and live at
                    Bridge, where you lose your money. We shall just stay on here, and love it all
                    more and more and more. And because there is
                    much too much money for just us, mother is going to get some other little girls
                    to come and live with us and play with me and be my sisters—little girls that
                    are poor like mother and me would have been if I hadn't bought that desk for
                    mother with my golden money-piece. So I shall have plenty of other children now
                    to play with.
                Please don't think I think it was clever or good of me to think of getting the
                    desk. It was not that at all. When you get an idea like I got, it is just like
                    some one telling you to go and do it. And if you have any sense, you do, that's
                    all. But you can't take any credit for it. And saying I deserved it was only
                    just my farmer man's kindness.
                
                P.S.—I have got a white pony, and I have only fallen off nine times.
                    When the little sisters are got they are going to have ponies, too, not white if
                    they'd rather not, but just any colour they like, even sorrel, which is the
                    ugliest colour in the world for a horse, I always think. Don't you?
            
            
                
                IX
                THE LITTLE CHAP
                
                THE LITTLE CHAP
                THE man was tired. He was tired, he told himself, of the whole damned
                    show. For long enough, and too long now, the wings of life had dragged, broken,
                    shedding gleaming feathers along the dusty high-road where, for others, flowers
                    grew. For others the road led to the City of Dreams; to his feet, leaden as in
                    nightmares one's feet are, the road was only the dust wherein he strove to
                    advance to something, he knew not what, and, striving, failed always.
                He was not ill—the body did its work well enough. He never knew fatigue. Only
                    despair he knew. She twisted her claws in among the roots of his heart, and
                    pulled and pulled till he longed for the roots of life to sunder suddenly, and
                    the whole sorry business be done with.
                
                His rooms were haunted, not by strange ghosts with frank grievances of their
                    own—he could have welcomed them—but by his own dead hopes and dreams. Life was a
                    chain of cruel jests, and the merriest of them was the knowledge that once he
                    too had been merry. The books that lined his walls looked sombre and forbidding
                    to eyes that no longer loved them. In the gardens of Gray's Inn the rooks cawed
                    to branches now wholly bare. For it was winter, and if there had ever been
                    summer the man had forgotten it. The dark—painted doors, two of them, shut from
                    him the dark staircase. In his low—ceiled rooms twilight hung veils like
                    cobwebs. And it seemed to him that in all the world there was nothing that made
                    the world worth while. If he had had friends, he had tired out their friendship.
                    If he had had a love, her love had wearied of his ingratitudes and exactions.
                    If, with the waning of the winter daylight, his life-lamp should also go out,
                    none would be the loser, he least of all. Only his laundress coming at her own time and season would be a little
                    surprised, a little shocked perhaps even, to find It where she thought to find
                    Him. But she would console herself with an orgy of sudden easy pilfering before
                    she went away to tell the men in blue that another man had grown tired of the
                    game and gone out.
                Yet “It looks a pleasant world enough,” the man said—the fire glowed deeply; a
                    flicker of flame now and again lit up the glasses of his pictures and mirrored
                    itself in the polish of his old mahogany, struck a warm note from the folds of
                    his curtains and the backs of his books—“a pleasant world—and I hate it.”
                He had no need to work for money, and he had no heart to work for love. So he sat
                    in the warm dusk and hated everything.
                And the dusk deepened to a darkness that was like black velvet in the shadows of
                    the room, and like grey velvet shot with gold in the oblong of the tall windows,
                    because they looked out over the Inn Gardens, and were filled with the sky that
                    is over London.
                
                When it was quite dark he sat for a very long time very quiet in his chair, and
                    remembered the colour of the fields that he had played in when he was a child,
                    and the colour of the sky that had been over him, and the colour of the sun that
                    he had seen rise over the orchard slopes at home, and how then he had not
                    thought that life would be like this.
                The fire fell together with a crash, and he stretched his arms and sighed, and
                    got up out of his chair. And it was then that he heard the child crying. It was
                    crying softly, with subdued snufflings and gurglings, and the sound came from
                    beyond his door. On the oak stairs he found the child sitting, its head in the
                    pitiable cap—a man's cap with a peak—leaned against the carved banisters. Its
                    hands, black and red, were screwed up against its eyes. Its clothes were
                    horrible. One garment was outlined with mangy fur, wet and slimy.
                “Hullo, I say!” said the man. “Don't cry. What's the matter?”
                “'M lost,” said the child.
                
                “But how did you get in here?”
                “It's rainin' outside,” said the child; sniffed, rubbed its fists once more in
                    its eyes, and stopped crying.
                “You got a fire,” it said, turning bright eyes to the open door.
                “Where's your mother?” he asked.
                “She's lost me,” said the child. “She said to stay there, and she'd come back.
                    And she ain't come back.”
                “Stay where?” he asked.
                “There,” said the child. “I say, you do burn lots of coals.”
                He could not resist the second appeal.
                “Come in,” he said, and the child scrambled to its feet—little feet, in
                    unspeakable boots.
                “I like you,” it said. “You talk like my daddy used to.”
                The child squatted on the hearth-rug, and with perfect self-possession took off
                    the dreadful cap and laid it on the fender to dry.
                “It's me best,” it explained.
                The man and the child looked at each other. In the child's eyes a merry
                        confidence dawned slowly, like sunshine,
                    and two smiles met.
                “Do you ever,” the man asked doubtfully, “have a bath?”
                “Saturdays,” the child answered promptly.
                “Could you—if I turned on the water for you—could you give yourself a bath?”
                “Course I could,” it said, “if you was to soap me back.”
                He turned on the water for it, and he did soap its back.
                He liked the child from the moment he saw its smile, but he did not love it until
                    he had held its body in his arms.
                He has never been able to remember whether it had dark hair or light hair; he
                    does not know the colour of its eyes, but he knows that the eyes were bright and
                    gay, that the wet hair curled in little rings as it dried by the fire, and that
                    the little body, thin and fine as an ivory carving, was yet straight and
                    beautiful. The jacket of his pyjamas made, with the sleeves rolled up, a garment
                    warm and adequate.
                
                He brought the child out of the bathroom, and set it on the Persian rug, where it
                    crouched with the grace and self-possession of a cat that had always lived
                    there.
                “Comfy now?” he said, and remembered how they had asked him that, after the bath,
                    when he was little, in the wooden house among the cherry orchards.
                “Fine,” said the child. “This coat's soft as soft. I wish mother was here. She'd
                    wash out me clothes. I suppose you couldn't...”
                The man actually hesitated a moment before saying, “No; I don't think I
                    could.”
                “Well, never mind,” it said cheerily.
                “I'll buy some new clothes,” he said.
                “I say!”
                Pause.
                Then: “I ain't 'ad me tea,” the child told the fire.
                After that came cake and milk and bread and marmalade, crumbs on the Persian rug,
                    and sticky fingers on the bright brass fenderrail.
                “Mother was buying things for Christmas,” said
                    the child. “Nice things to eat, and candles too.”
                “I suppose,” he said idly, “you don't know what Christmas means?”
                “Oh, don't I!” said the child. “Shall I tell you my piece about it, what my daddy
                    taught me?”
                The child instantly and surprisingly scrambled on to the man's knees, folded its
                    hands like the little images of the praying Samuel, and said in a pretty hushed
                    voice, and an accent that was not its own:
                
                    
                        “Upon the Christmas morn
                        The King of Heaven was born:
                        He came on earth to be
                        A little child like me.
                    
                    
                        The King of Heaven lay
                        Upon a bed of hay.
                        The wise men came to see
                        A little child like me.
                    
                    
                        Jesus, give peace and joy
                        To me, your little boy;
                        And let me learn to be
                        A little child like Thee!”
                    
                
                “Thank you, dear,” said the man; and added lamely, “very nice indeed.”
                
                “My daddy made it up his own self, purpose for me,” said the child, and threw his
                    arms round the man's neck. “D'you know my daddy?” it asked. “He's been gone away
                    a long time now.”
                The man would not look at the little corner of the blotted scroll of life that
                    seemed to uncurl at the words. He would not question, would not speculate.
                    Through and through him, back and forth like water lapping from rock to rock in
                    a narrow channel, ran the warm wave of longing, of desire.
                “If he were only mine! If the little chap were my own!”
                And the thin arms hung round his neck like a necklace of price.
                When the necklace loosened at the touch of sleep the man gathered the child in
                    his arms very closely, and sat quiet, a long time, looking into the fire. And at
                    last he laid the child in his own bed, and went out, to buy things for it.
                He bought clothes and toys and pleasant sweet foods, and his fancy busied itself
                        with a life that should be quite different
                    from any that he had known or dreamed of. For hours had gone by now since he had
                    found the child in the cold shadows of the staircase, and the hope he had not
                    dared to look at had grown to a strong certainty that bade him look in its face,
                    unafraid, with glad eyes.
                The mother had meant to lose the child. She would not come back. Certainly she
                    would not come back. The child was his own. And what would he not make of his
                    own—what not do for it, be to it?
                They had closed the gates of the Inn before he went out, and they opened to him
                    as he returned. He looked up at the tall house where the child was. It looked,
                    somehow, not the sort of house to which such a Christmas gift would come. His
                    arms were full of lumpy parcels, and the stairs seemed longer than usual, but
                    here, at last, was the black door with his name whitely painted on it. He had to
                    set down all the parcels on the stairs while he found his key.
                
                 
                
                He threw all the parcels on the sofa and turned up a light. The fire had burned
                    clear again. What a pleasant room it was for a child to wake up in! He would set
                    out the food and the toys and the clothes, and then bring the child in and hold
                    it in his arms till it woke to all the little intimate joys and surprises he had
                    prepared for it. Moving very softly, so that the wakening should not come too
                    soon, he unpacked toys and sweets and warm, pretty garments, and laid out
                    everything on table and chairs. Then he turned up all the electric lights, and
                    laid a match-flame to all the candles that never were lighted. The old furniture
                    gave back the light as a mirror gives it. The things he had bought to please the
                    child made spots of crude, incongruous colour on the background of the dark
                    room, set in the low key of a life from which youth had long gone away.
                The room being thus transfigured to the lit shrine of youth and love and the
                    heart of the child, he went to bring back in
                    his arms the child itself.
                And the child was not there. His bed lay smooth and neat: on its pillow, neatly
                    folded, the garment that he had seen the child wear as, after the bath, it sat
                    before his fire. The child was gone, its clothes were gone; there were no
                    crumbs, he noticed now, on the Persian hearthrug. All was as though no child had
                    ever been at all in those dark rooms.
                Then the heart of the man was wild with anger and fierce resentment, as is the
                    heart of a man robbed of his most precious treasure.
                He searched wildly, displacing the ordered furniture, disarranging the folds of
                    curtains and hangings, and, this being fruitlessly done, went out to search the
                    stairs in their dark corners, and, later, the quiet quadrangles of the Inn.
                But he did not find the child.
                Then, the sense of loss deepening and intensifying within him, he found himself
                        at the police-station, asking somewhat
                    wildly for a child that was lost—a little child; no, he did not know its name,
                    nor the colour of its eyes and hair; he had found it, and meant to keep it for
                    his own, and now it was gone. He did not know its name, but it had bright eyes
                    and curly hair and a very merry smile. It had worn an old cloth cap and a rag of
                    a coat with mangy fur.
                The policemen looked at him and at each other, and smiled furtively.
                “Yes, sir. Certainly, sir,” one answered, to whom a silvery voice had spoken.
                    “We'll keep a look-out, and let you know if we come across the little chap.”
                And when the man was gone back to that room where the toys and sweets and clothes
                    had emptied themselves of meaning and value, the men in blue smiled more broadly
                    still.
                “We're so likely to come across the little chap, ain't we?” one said to the
                    other, “seeing there's thousands and thousands of little chaps exactly like him?
                        Bright eyes, and curly hair, and a merry
                    smile, and dressed in rags, and no father! Well, well!”
                Perhaps it is because there are so many thousands that the man has never found
                    the little chap again.
                But he has found some of the others: and he knows more about buying clothes and
                    sweets than he did on that first night. Only no other child could ever be the
                    same as that one. No other child comes to such a desert—with such a rose. And
                    sometimes he wonders whether, after all... But he will never know. Or perhaps
                    some day it may be that he will know. He thinks of that. Very often he thinks of
                    it.
            
            
                
                X
                LUCY
                
                LUCY
                THE other day an old gentleman was turning out an old desk; and in the
                    drawer, politely termed secret, he found a withered rose that a girl had given
                    him, and a bit of old ribbon that had been smart and brisk when she wore it.
                    Also he found a little book, with a yellow morocco back, edged and clasped with
                    a tarnished gilt—a book that had nothing to do with the girl, who was nobody in
                    particular, and whose name, even, he had forgotten long and long ago. But the
                    little book he had not forgotten, because it was his first diary.
                On the fly-leaf was written in the violet ink that does not fade, 
                        
                            TO DEAR PETER,
                        
                        
                            From Mamma with best love.
                        
                    
                And the old gentleman remembered how, in a
                    velvet suit, with an embroidered collar, he had coaxed mamma to spend a shilling
                    on that book at the fancy shop near Aunt Ingram's house—the fancy shop which was
                    also the toy-shop and the circulating library.
                He read the entries—they were not many. At nine years old one does not keep a
                    diary for many days.
                Aug. 15.—Papa and mamma went to Switzerland. Mamma gaiv me this book. I
                    am going to write in it evry day.
                Aug. 17.—I am staying at Aunt Ingram's.
                Aug. 18.—Tried to work in the garden. No good.
                Aug. 19.—I am afriad I am very wickid. But I did not mean to.
                Aug. 21.—It is wrong to make clay modles.
                Aug. 24.—Wicked agian. Am to go to school. Am sorry I am not good. I
                    hope no one will read this.
                Aug. 26.—There is no one at school except me. Nothing happened.
                Aug. 27.—Nothing happened.
                Aug. 28.—There is nothing to do. I
                    wish the oathers were here. Nothing happened.
                Aug. 29.—Nothing happened. Saw L.
                Aug. 30.—Saw her again.
                Aug. 31.—L.
                Sept. 1.—L.
                Sept. 2.—L.
                And so on for a fortnight. Then the entries ceased—because mamma came back from
                    Switzerland, and swept in, as, wrapped in dreams, he sat over a lonely
                    bread-and-butter-and-cold-milk-in-a-mug tea. She swept in with violet silk
                    flounces, and a white shawl with a Paisley border, and a lace veil to her
                    bonnet; kissed him and hugged him, and put him to bed herself with many kisses.
                    And next day he went into the garden. To the end of his life he never could
                    remember what happened after that. The next thing he remembers is being at
                    Brighton, very jolly, with the others. A second cousin once told him that after
                    mamma took him away he was very ill with something which the second cousin called brain-fever, and that the doctor had
                    said he would have gone out of his mind, but for the child next door of whom in
                    the wanderings of his fever he talked incessantly.
                As the old gentleman looked at these entries in the first diary—very crookedly
                    and painfully written with one of these sharp styles of lead, ivory mounted,
                    that were sold with that kind of book and would only, so to speak, strike on the
                    box, the remembrance of the agony of which those faint scratchings were the
                    record, came over him; and he remembered all about the Next Door Neighbours, and
                    all that she was to him when he was not Peter Somebody, Esq., quite grown up,
                    with an office in the city, all respectful clerks, and shiny mahogany; with
                    money in both pockets, and able to choose which way he would go for a walk, and
                    how long he would stay in the garden, and what he would have for meals, and who
                    he would have to talk to—but just Peter—little Peter, who had no voice in any of
                    these things, Peter, who had to do as he was
                    told, and be a good boy. As he held the yellow book in his hand, and smelt the
                    faint musty scent of it, the old gentleman saw again the next-door house.
                He used to call it the next-door house, but really the school front-door opened
                    out of the flat face of a Georgian house, with wire blinds to the windows,
                    straight on to the High Street. Whereas the front-door of the next-door house
                    opened on to a garden, with a flagged path leading to a locked gate that opened
                    into a side lane. The lane was twisted and interesting, with different kinds of
                    houses and gardens, and most attractive summer-houses; the kind of place that
                    you can make up stories about. Therefore, Peter was never allowed to walk that
                    way. But the next-door house was close to the school garden, so that you could
                    see the patterns on the curtains, and the white square of a transparency that in
                    the day was just a white square, but at night when the lamp was lighted became a beautiful soft, pencilly picture of
                    a castle gate and six men in chains kneeling before a king. There was no one to
                    tell Peter that it was the Burgesses of Calais surrendering to King Edward, and
                    he only saw it once, on the first evening, when they forgot about him, and he
                    strayed in the garden till it was quite dark, looking at everything, and afraid
                    to touch anything, and crying every now and then because he was such a wicked
                    boy and nobody could ever love him. His aunt had explained this carefully to him
                    before she sent him away to school.
                Mamma—she who gave the pocket-book with her best love—had gone to Switzerland
                    with papa, so that she might get quite well again, and Peter was left with an
                    aunt, who had never had any children of her own.
                At first he was so unhappy that he was quite good; that is to say he sat still,
                    or went out for a walk, and did exactly as he was told and nothing else. But
                    presently he grew happier—one of the housemaids was quite kind to him, when there was no one about—and
                    having grown happier he began to be busy. The old gardener was cutting down
                    nettles in the paddock with a reaping hook. Peter got half a hoop of an old
                    barrel out of the wood-shed and cut down nettles too; only he chose the large
                    red and green kind that were in the garden. He worked vigorously, thinking how
                    pleased Aunt Ingram would be.
                When he had been jumped at from behind, had been shaken, and had had his ears
                    boxed so that they burned and hurt even when he went to bed, he learned that the
                    nettles he had cut down were not nettles at all, but were called Coalyusses;
                    that they were very precious, and that he was a very naughty little boy.
                Then he tried to make up for this unfortunate mistake by being more than usually
                    polite, and, jumping up to open the door for his aunt, he caught his foot in a
                    rug, and came heavily to the ground, bringing with him a thing called a Whatnot,
                    covered with cups and saucers that nobody ever
                    used. Most of the cups and saucers were broken, and Peter's head had a lump on
                    it like a large plum. He was quite glad to be sent to bed, that time.
                Later, he wished to model with clay, and got a hard lump out of the garden; to
                    soften it he washed it in the bath—a new installation which interested Peter
                    mightily—and left the tap running. The hall ceiling was dripping like the roof
                    of a stalactite cave before it was discovered that the clay had choked the
                    waste-pipe of the newly fitted bath.
                Things like this constantly happened, without Peter's at all meaning them to.
                But the worst thing of all was also the last. Cheered by two whole days during
                    which nothing regettable had occurred, he made a booby trap for his friend the
                    housemaid—a waste-paper basket, a paper bag with flour in it, some green plums,
                    and so forth.
                The drawing-room door was broad and heavy, and
                    the housemaid had not yet “done” the room. All things were propitious. But the
                    first person to come into the room was not the housemaid. It was Snubs, his
                    aunt's fat pug, who came quietly in without disturbing the booby trap, sniffed
                    carelessly, and turned to go out. Just then Aunt Ingram, in gardening gloves and
                    mushroom hat, passed the French window, glanced through it, and saw the booby
                    trap. She opened the window and rushed in. Peter, from his hiding-place behind
                    the door, saw what was coming, and ducked; the blow intended for his ear struck
                    the door, closing it with violence; the booby trap discharged itself upon him
                    and his aunt impartially. And Snubs—poor Snubs on his hurried way out—was caught
                    in the closing door.
                Peter cried a good deal over this. He really was sorry. He would
                    have liked to show his respect for Snubs, whom he had not liked in life, by
                    giving him a magnificent funeral, such as his mamma had given the canary that
                    had died, with the cats in black bows as chief
                    mourners; but he was shut up in the spare bedroom, and they would not let him
                    out, even for funerals.
                It is dreadful to be shut up in a strange room all alone with your guilty
                    conscience and your confused remorses and exonerations.
                When his aunt came to him much later in the day he had fallen asleep on the
                    floor. She awoke him to tell him austerely that he was to go to school at
                    once.
                “But it's holiday time,” said Peter.
                “Not for wicked little boys who kill poor innocent dogs, it isn't,” said Aunt
                    Isabel. “Miss Snape has kindly consented to receive you at once.”
                “To-night?” said Peter miserably.
                “To-morrow. She has sent me an electric telegram. You can go to bed now. And be
                    sure to say your prayers and ask for a new heart. Suppose you were to die
                    tonight, where would you go?”
                “I don't know,” said Peter, quite truly.
                “But I do. No,” for Peter, with the incurably forgiving spirit of the natural child, had moved towards her for
                    the customary good-night kiss. “No. Nobody can love such a wicked little boy.
                    Nobody would speak to you if they knew. You are almost the same as a
                    murderer.”
                “I'm very, very sorry,” said Peter; “I won't ever do it again.”
                “I'll take care of that,” said Aunt Ingram; “and mind you say your
                    prayers.”
                His prayers included an earnest request that God would make Snubs a good boy for
                    ever and ever amen. He was very sleepy.
                And next day they sent him to school. He went in the charge of the railway guard,
                    a kind and friendly man, who made jokes and tried to cheer people up. Peter did
                    cheer up until he remembered that if the guard knew about Snubs he would not
                    speak to him any more. So then he left off being cheered up, and the guard
                    thought he was tired and let him alone. And Peter wondered whether his crime
                    showed in his face, and whether the guard had become so quiet because he had somehow found out that this was the
                    little boy who had killed a dog. Quite by accident, but still, killed a dog.
                A strange servant, in a plaid shawl and a spoon bonnet, with a blue curtain to
                    it, met him at a railway station a long way off, and took him through a town to
                    a large, strange house. There was bread-and-butter and a blue mug of milk at the
                    end of a long table, also a vague lady who kissed him as if she did not want to,
                    and told him to be a good boy, and that he was to do exactly what Jane said. He
                    never saw this lady again. Then he was sent into the garden to play, and
                    forgotten. When they remembered him it was bedtime; and after that, an interval
                    that seemed no interval ended in the awakening, in a brightly sunlit,
                    bare-boarded attic room, to the awful sense of some crime committed and
                    forgotten, then sudden but shameful remembrance. He was little better than a
                    murderer. No one would speak to him if they knew. The old man, who turned out
                    the desk the other day, recalls, with a thrill
                    of misery, that guilty awakening.
                And now his whole duty was to do what Jane said. Jane said very little. She was
                    quite kind, but he seldom saw her except at meals and bath times. She was a
                    trusted servant, left in charge of the empty schoolhouse and the embarrassing
                    little boarder. The other servants, the teachers, the pupils, even the
                    schoolmistress who received Peter on that first evening, all were away on their
                    holidays. Peter and Jane were alone in the house. And Jane had her own friends
                    and her own affairs. Peter had neither.
                Jane's friendships prospered best when Peter was out of the house. Consequently
                    he was directed, for long hours, to play in the garden. He did not like the
                    garden—but then he did not like the house. Yet he liked either better than the
                    “walks” straight up to the gates of Burleigh Park and back again. There were
                    chains hanging from stone posts outside Burleigh Park, and Peter would have
                    liked to swing on them; but Jane was always in
                    a hurry to get back.
                “My orders is to take you a nice walk every day,” she said; “and don't you forget
                    I done it.”
                The house was gaunt and dusty. Empty schoolrooms, with black desks and low shiny
                    benches. A good many of the rooms were locked up. There was plenty to eat, and
                    Peter and Jane ate it together.
                “Who lives next door?” he questioned, over the very first day's mutton.
                “A old gent and 'is little girl.”
                “Couldn't I go and play with her?” Peter asked, who had always lived in the
                    country and known everybody.
                “Good gracious, no!” said Jane; “her grandfather thinks there's no one good
                    enough for her to play with. That's what's the matter with her, I
                    think. Pining away like, for want of cheerful company, that's what I say.”
                Jane, Peter decided, was not likely to pine away for any such want. Shouts of laughter came to him that afternoon in the
                    hot, parched garden, through the bars of the kitchen window.
                At tea-time he began again. “The little girl isn't really pining away, is she,
                    Jane?” he asked, through much thick bread-and-butter. They had meals in the
                    kitchen to save trouble.
                “She's white as a egg,” said Jane; “coughs a lot—or used to. Now she's lost her
                    voice even for coughing. I can see her at the window most days. I did hear they
                    was going to take her to the seaside, to try what that'll do for her. But you
                    couldn't play with her anyway, Master Peter. Her grandfather wouldn't
                        let her play with you.”
                Peter ate no more just then. It seemed quite certain that Jane now knew who had
                    killed—quite unintentionally, but still killed—the pug. He got away as quickly
                    as he could, and went out into the garden. There was a quiet, weedy corner,
                    between the stables and the wall of the other house: face down among the
                    bindweed and plantains and the May-weed Peter
                    lay, and wondered how he could have been so wicked, and whether such a stain
                    would cling for ever, and he be pointed at, when he grew up, as the man that
                    killed the dog when he was a little boy. It seemed that he had been at school a
                    very long time. Already he knew the garden better than he had known Aunt
                    Ingram's. It was a pleasant, old-fashioned garden, with the stable-yard only
                    divided from it by a pretence of a privet hedge. But there were no grooms in the
                    yard, and no horses in the stable. The coach-house door, however, was open. One
                    could climb up that, and sit in the open window of the hay-loft. But what was
                    the good? There was no one to see him do it. So he lay face down among the
                    weeds, and cried, and wished that his mamma had not gone away.
                Mamma was in Switzerland—very far away—hoping that her boy was good and happy.
                    She had said she should hope that every day. Well, he wasn't. He wasn't
                    either.
                He never knew when he first became aware that
                    some one was looking at him. He felt it before he thought it was worth while to
                    look up and see who it was. It couldn't be any one but Jane, and... well, if she
                    saw that he had been crying she might take more notice of him. He knew well
                    enough that she wouldn't scold him or call him a cry-baby. Children know this
                    sort of thing with strange accuracy. So he lay there, and though the interest of
                    wondering what Jane would say stopped his tears his shoulders still shook to his
                    sobs. But Jane said nothing. So presently he rolled over, and Jane was not there
                    at all. So then he sat up and looked round. No one was there, and he had been
                    quite certain that some one was.
                It was no use to begin crying again now, anyway. There was a vine growing up the
                    stable wall; there were grapes high up. He would climb up and see if they were
                    ripe. He would not take any; that would be stealing. But he did not climb.
                    Suddenly he saw that it would not be worth while. He went and walked in the
                    garden and picked flowers to pieces and tasted
                    the petals. The rose-leaves were nice to eat; so were the nasturtiums, but the
                    sunflowers were horrid.
                He went to bed early that night because Jane was going out to a party. He said
                    his prayers twice over, and added a petition that was intended for a prayer:
                    “Oh, please, dear God! oh, dear mamma! Oh do come and take me away from
                    here!”
                It was his last act of faith. On the morning of the second day he settled down
                    into the desperate, quiet misery of a child alone, for whom there is no joyous
                    past, no hopeful future, only the interminable intolerable present.
                He spent nearly all his time in the garden, and he grew to hate it as men hate a
                    prison. At first he had thought of writing to his mother and telling her.
                    Telling her what? That he had been sent to school because he had killed—not on
                    purpose, but still killed—Aunt Ingram's dog? Perhaps even mamma would not love
                    him any more when she knew that.
                
                Peter, an old man now, sitting musing, with the first diary in his hand, could
                    draw you the plan of that garden, and tell you what flowers grew where—indicate
                    the exact whereabouts and numbers of the old sea-kale pots that the snails loved
                    to hide in; distinguish the taste of the different petals, of the vine leaves,
                    and of the unripe grapes; “for compared with ‘murder almost’” stealing soon grew
                    to seem nothing much, one way or the other. And eating is the first distraction
                    that suggests itself to a child's boredom.
                And as he went about the sense grew and grew on him of being watched, of there
                    being some one else quite near. The loneliness of these three days left a mark
                    on his soul that will never be effaced. It might have marked brain as well as
                    soul but for the next-door neighbour.
                He had been in that garden three long, long days, with intervals for sleep and
                    food, and it seemed as though he must always have been there, where he first saw
                    her at a window of the first floor of the next-door house—a pale little face, with large, dark eyes, and
                    hair that hung in long, lean, black tresses. Some sort of shawl thing was
                    wrapped round her, and she waved a hand like a white bird's claw, and smiled at
                    him.
                “Hullo!” he said, thrilling to the adventure; “you better?”
                She smiled, and her lips moved, but she didn't answer. Then he remembered.
                “Oh,” he said, standing as close to the dividing wall as he could stand and still
                    see her, “I forgot you'd lost your voice. I suppose you can't come out?”
                She shook her head, still smiling.
                “I'm so very glad to see you,” said Peter; “they won't be angry with you for me
                    talking to you, will they?”
                Again a shake of the head and a movement of the lips. Peter, watching carefully,
                    thought the lips said, “Don't tell.”
                “I won't,” said Peter; “course I won't. Aren't you tired being up there?”
                He is not sure now whether it was only fancy, or whether he really could tell by
                        the way her lips moved what she said. But
                    at the time he had no doubt. Why should he have had? What she seemed to say
                    was—
                “I used to be very very tired.”
                “Can I do anything for you?” was Peter's next question. And again the dark head
                    shook with a “No, thank you,” and it seemed to him that she added, “I used to
                    like playing. I should like to see you play.”
                Under that inspiration Peter climbed the coach-house door, and sat in the opening
                    of the hay-loft, swinging his legs.
                She applauded with smiles, and softly clapping hands.
                For the first time the call to “Come to bed, Master Peter,” seemed to come too
                    soon.
                Next morning Peter woke early, with a thrill of joyous anticipation; there
                    was—oh, wonderful!—something to look forward to. But then he remembered. There
                    had been nothing in the little girl's face or voice or manner to show that she
                    knew who he was, he, the malign hero of a murder story.
                
                He dressed slowly, maturing a resolution of martyrdom.
                When he went into the garden he almost wished that she might not be at the
                    window. When he saw that she was not there he knew that he had only almost
                    wished it. When next he looked up there she was, smiling and waving her hand
                    that was like a bird-claw, and white.
                With the help of two sea-kale pots and an old hurdle he achieved the ascent of
                    the dividing wall, she the while smiling approval of his acrobatic feats. Then,
                    not much more than a yard away from the window-sill, he told her all. It was
                    very difficult, but he told her, quite plainly, exactly what sort of boy he was,
                    how wicked, how very like a real murderer. And as he thought of Snubs he wept,
                    though Snubs in life had not endeared himself to Peter.
                The little girl was very nice to him. She said, “Never mind,” and “I'm sure you
                    didn't mean to,” with other kind and consoling things.
                
                 
                
                Also she then told him, when he asked her, that her name was Lucy, and that she
                    was eight years old. He never heard her voice, but one soon becomes expert in
                    the silent language of the lips, especially if one has been very sad and very
                    lonely.
                It is impossible to play with a person who sits for ever at a window, but it is
                    easy to play for her. Peter played for Lucy all the plays that he
                    had thought of and not cared to carry out. He spun a top for her, though August
                    is not the proper season for tops. He played marbles—quite big boys played
                    marbles in those days—and at each stroke of luck or skill looked up for her
                    applause.
                He sang to her the songs he had learned from his brothers and from the servants
                    at home—the fashionable ditties of this moment. “Slap bang, here we are again”
                    and “The Captain with his Whiskers” and “The Perfect Cure,” and Lucy, pale, but
                    always smiling, applauded and encored. She never talked much, but she was one of those people to whom one can tell
                    everything. Peter told her more than he had ever told any one else. And
                    different things. Things that he has never in all his life told to any one
                    else.
                And gradually the grim, echoing house, and Jane, and Jane's crinoline and her
                    spoon bonnets and her friends, and even meal times and going to bed, began to
                    seem vague and dream-like, and the only real thing in the world was Lucy—the
                    thin face at the window, with the lank hanks of hair hanging on each side of it,
                    and the eyes that were interested in everything he did; the pale lips that
                    always smiled and never said anything that was not kind.
                He said nothing to Jane of the next- door neighbour. For a thousand reasons he
                    could say nothing. Indeed, he now said hardly anything to Jane. She, on the
                    contrary, began to talk more to him, and to take him out more, and to bring him
                    into the kitchen when her friends were there.
                    He hated it. He wanted nothing but the garden now, the garden, and Lucy.
                The only thing that seemed real, besides Lucy and the things he did when he was
                    with her, were his dreams, which grew very real. In these he played with Lucy,
                    inside the next-door house. Years afterwards he went into that house, and found
                    his way about in it with his eyes shut. Every turn of it was familiar; yet he
                    had never been in it before, except in dreams.
                And the days went on and the dreams, and Peter ceased to wish that mamma would
                    come and fetch him away. He ceased to wish that the others were there. He wished
                    for nothing but Lucy, and Lucy was there. And he wished Jane would leave him
                    alone and not bother so.
                It was Jane, he learned from the second cousin long afterwards, who wrote to his
                    mother. She lost her place for it, but mamma saw that she was in the end no
                    loser, and Jane's letter brought mamma back from Switzerland. The letter
                        remarked that “this came hopping to find
                    you well as it leaves me at presint, and it was her duty to say that Master
                    Peter do not look above aff the sise he did wen he come, an dall pale an dall
                    eyes, an dif I was you, dear Mam, I would take him or not long for this world,
                    so no more at present from your bedent servt. JANE TRANSOME.”
                So mother came and kissed him and loved him and put him to bed, and that night he
                    did not dream.
                He went out into the garden next morning, while mother was packing his clothes,
                    to say good-bye to Lucy. She was not at the window, and before she could appear
                    Jane came after him.
                “Come in, Master Peter,” she said; “you're to have your hands and face washed and
                    have a cup of milk and a nice piece of cake before you go.”
                “I want,” said Peter—there seemed now to be no reason for secrecy—“I want to see
                    the little girl next door.”
                
                “You'll not see her,” said Jane, catching his hand. “Come along, do. Poor little
                    thing. I thought I'd told you about her. Pined away for lack of company, that's
                    what I shall always say.”
                “I want to see her,” Peter repeated, and offered a dragging resistance to the
                    hand of Jane.
                “Don't I tell you you can't see her,” Jane insisted; “she's dead.”
                Then a horror of great darkness came over Peter, and through it he remembers
                    saying, “No, no, no, no,” a great many times, and stamping with his boots on the
                    garden path.
                “But I tell you she is,” Jane said. “Don't be so silly. She's dead right enough,
                    poor little thing, and an angel by this time, I shouldn't wonder.”
                And still Peter dragged at Jane's hand till he had actually dragged her to the
                    place from which Lucy's window could be seen. And the windows of the house were
                    shuttered fast.
                
                “There, you see,” said Jane, “it's been shut up ever since they went away.”
                And again Peter said, “No.”
                “But I say yes,” said Jane, exasperated. “She died at the seaside three days
                    after they got her there. They shut the house up and took her away the day after
                    you came; I thought I'd mentioned it. You come along, like a good boy now, and
                    have your nice cake.”
                
                That is the end of what the little yellow-bound, gilt-bordered book brings back.
                    After that nothing ... till it is Brighton; and being jolly with the others.
            
            Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & Co. Edinburgh &
                London
        
        
            
                
                
                    WAX BY GEORGE SOMES LAYARD Author of “Dolly's Governess,” &c. A
                        novel showing the disturbing influences of Love, Wax, Hypnotism, and a
                        London Fog. 340 pages. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.
                    BY MRS. M.H. SPIELMANN. THE LOVE FAMILY With 50 Illustrations, including
                        12 in Colour, by CARTON MOORE PARK Imperial 16mo, cloth, 2s. 6d. net 
                            TIMES.—“A graceful little tale very charmingly
                                illustrated.”
                            WESTMINSTER GAZETTE.—“A very dainty production.”
                        
                    MY SON AND I With Frontispiece in Colour, Title-page, 9 Full-page
                        Illustrations, and Cover drawn by HUGH THOMSON Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt top,
                        6s. 
                            MORNING POST.—“A simple story, simply told.... Its simplicity has
                                more power to please than much of the sensational melodrama of the
                                modern novel.”
                        
                    THE SWORD OF WELLERAN AND OTHER STORIES BY LORD DUNSANY With 10 Full-page
                        Illustrations by S.H. SIME Pott 4to, cloth, designed cover, gilt top, 6s.
                        net 
                            GLOBE.—“The stories are the work of a fine intellect, rare among
                                us in these days, and dowered with invention and imagination of a
                                high order.”
                        
                    THE APOSTATE BY A.E. LLOYD MAUNSELL 352 pages. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. 
                            DAILY TELEGRAPH.—“A story which grips.”
                            GLOBE.—“A fine and sympathetic work.”
                            SCOTSMAN.—“There are many powerful scenes.”
                            FREEMAN'S JOURNAL.—“A noble piece of work.”
                            T.P.'s WEEKLY.—“A study well worth reading.”
                        
                    
                    AN ARTIST'S GARDEN Tended, Painted, and Described by ANNA LEA MERRITT With
                        16 Full-page Illustrations in Colour by the Author, specially mounted Demy
                        4to, cloth, designed cover, gilt top, 21s. net 
                            DAILY CHRONICLE.—“Painted pictures distributed plenteously
                                throughout the book, together with exquisite pen pictures, give us
                                joy to read and feast our eyes upon.”
                        
                    THE VARYING YEAR BY THE RIGHT HON. GEORGE W.E. RUSSELL Crown 8vo, cloth,
                        gilt top, 5s. net 
                            GUARDIAN.—“These essays are written in Mr. Russell's best form,
                                they are graceful, thoughtful, and stimulating.”
                        
                    PROBLEMS OF TO-DAY BY ANDREW CARNEGIE
                        CONTENTS.—Wealth—Labour—Wages—Thrift—The Land Individualism versus Socialism—Variety versus Uniformity—Family
                        Reltions—Socialism—Variety versus
                        Uniformity—Family Relations—The Long March Upwards. Crown 8to, cloth, 2s.
                        6d. net 
                            MORNING POST.—“Mr. Carnegie's researches and practial experiences
                                entitle him to speak with authority on these subjects.”
                        
                    THE HEART OF THE NORTHERN SEA Translated from the Fifth Norwegian Edition
                        by JESSIE REW Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. This book, by common consent of all good
                        judges who have read it, is a European masterpiece. 
                            BIRMINGHAM GAZETTE.—“A book of arresting quality, simplicity, and
                                directness combined with real eloquence and a penetrating insight
                                into the motive spring of human action.”
                        
                
                LONDON: GEORGE ALLEN & SONS.
            
        
    
