
     ----CITATION----
        Lee, Vernon (1856-1935). Gospels of Anarchy and Other Contemporary Studies. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 574 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (March 4, 1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7069
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    GOSPELS OF ANARCHY 
                    AND OTHER CONTEMPORARY STUDIES
                
                BY VERNON LEE
                
                    T. FISHER UNWIN
                    LONDON
                        ADELPHI TERRACE
                    LEIPSICINSELSTRASSE 20
                
                1908
            
            
            
                To H.G. WELLS
            
            
            
                
                    CONTENTS
                    I. GOSPELS OF ANARCHY 11
                    II. EMERSON AS A TEACHER OF LATTER?DAY TENDENCIES 41
                    III. DETERIORATION OF SOUL 71
                    
                    IV. TOLSTOI AS A PROPHET 103
                    V. TOLSTOI ON ART 133
                    VI. NIETZSCHE AND THE “WILL TO POWER” 159
                    VII. PROFESSOR JAMES AND THE “WILL TO BELIEVE” 191
                    VIII. ROSNY AND THE FRENCH ANALYTICAL NOVEL 233
                    IX. THE ECONOMIC PARASITISM OF WOMEN 261
                    X. RUSKIN AS A REFORMER 299
                    XI. ON MODERN UTOPIAS: AN OPEN LETTER TO MR. H.G. WELLS 323
                    XII. A POSTSCRIPT ON MR. WELLS AND UTOPIAS 351
                
            
        
        
            
            
                GOSPELS OF ANARCHY
                
                GOSPELS OF ANARCHY
                
                    IN such of us as not merely live, but think and feel what life is
                        and might be, there is enacted an inner drama full of conflicting emotions,
                        long drawn out through the years, and, in many cases, never brought to a
                        conclusion.
                    It begins with the gradual suspicion, as we pass out of childish tutelage,
                        that the world is not at all the definite, arranged, mechanical thing which
                        the doctrine convenient to our elders and our own optimistic egoism have led
                        us to expect; that the causes and results of actions are by no means so
                        simple as we imagined, and that good and evil are not so distinctly opposed
                        as black and white. We guess, we slowly recognise with difficulty and
                        astonishment, that this well?regulated structure called the universe or life
                        is a sham constructed by human hands; that the reality is a seething
                        whirlpool of forces seemingly blind, mainly disorderly and cruel, and, at
                        the best, utterly indifferent; a chaos of which we recognise, with
                        humiliation turning into cynicism, that our poor self is but a part and a
                        sample.
                    Thus we feel. But if we feel long enough, and do not get blunted in the process, we are brought
                        gradually, by additional seeing and feeling, to a totally new view of
                        things. The chaos becomes ordered, the void a firmament; and we recognise
                        with joy and pride that the universe has made us, and that we, perceiving
                        it, have made the universe in our turn; and that therefore “in la sua
                        volontade è nostra pace.”
                    The following notes display this process of destruction and reconstruction in
                        one particular type of mind; embody, for the benefit of those who
                        constitutionally tend to think alike, and still more of those who are
                        constitutionally bound to think otherwise, the silent discussions on anarchy
                        and law which have arisen in me as a result of other folks’ opinions and my
                        own experience of life’s complexities and deadlocks.
                
                
                    I
                    The intellectual rebellion and lawlessness of our contemporaries have been
                        summed up by Mr. Henry Brewster, in a book too subtle and too cosmopolitan
                        ever to receive adequate appreciation.
                    “On the one hand, a revolt against any philosophical system of unity, which
                        many would call a revolt against all philosophy, genuine scepticism. Then
                        the denial that the feeling of obligation can be brought to bear on any
                        fixed point.... Morally, we must content ourselves with the various
                        injunctions of wisdom and with distinct, independent ideals. Something
                        beyond them is, indeed, recognised; but, whereas we were accustomed to place
                        it in the obligatory character of certain
                        prescriptions, we are now told to understand it as a perpetual warning
                        against all dogmatism.”¹
                    This is, as I have said, the modern formula of scepticism and revolt. But
                        similar doubts must have arisen, most certainly, in all kinds of men at all
                        times, producing worldly wise cynicism in some and religious distress in
                        others. Such doubts as these have lurked, one suspects, at the bottom of all
                        transcendentalism. They are summed up in Emerson’s disquieting remark that
                        saints are sad where philosophers are merely interested, because the first
                        see sin where the second see only cause and effect. They are implied in a
                        great deal of religious mysticism, habitually lurking in esoteric depths of
                        speculation, but penetrating occasionally, mysterious subtle gases, to
                        life’s surface, and there igniting at contact with the active impulses of
                        men; whence the ambiguous ethics, the questionable ways of many sects
                        originally ascetic. Nay, it is quite conceivable that, if there really
                        existed the thing called the Secret of the Church which
                        Villiers de l’Isle Adam’s gambling abbé staked at cards against twenty
                        louis?d’or, it would be found to be, not that there is no
                            purgatory, but rather that there is no heaven and hell, no law
                        and no sin.
                    Be this as it may, all dogmatic religions have forcibly repressed such
                        speculations, transcendental or practical, upon the ways of the universe and
                        of man. And it is only in our own day, with the habit of each individual
                        striking out his practice for himself, and with the scientific recognition
                        that the various religiously sanctioned codes embody a very rough?and?ready
                        practi? ¹
                            “Theories of Anarchy and Law,” p. 113. cability—it is only in our own day that people
                        are beginning to question the perfection of established rules of conduct, to
                        discuss the drawbacks of duty and self?sacrifice, and to speculate upon the
                        possible futility of all ethical systems, nay, upon the possible vanity of
                        all ideals and formulas whatever.
                    But the champions of moral anarchy and intellectual nihilism have made up for
                        lost time, and the books I intend discussing in the following notes contain,
                        systematically or by implication, what one might call the ethics, the
                        psychology, and the metaphysics of negation. These doctrines of the school
                        which denies all schools and all doctrines are, as I hope to show, not of
                        Mephistophelian origin. The spirit which denies has arisen, in
                        our days at least, neither from heartlessness nor from levity. On the
                        contrary, and little as the apostles of anarchy may suspect it, it is from
                        greater sensitiveness to the sufferings of others, and greater respect for
                        intellectual sincerity, that have resulted these doubts of the methods
                        hitherto devised for diminishing unhappiness and securing truth. And for
                        this reason, if no other, such subversive criticism ought to be of the
                        highest use to the very notions and tendencies which it attacks: we want
                        better laws, better formulas, better ideals; we want a wiser attitude
                        towards laws, formulas, and ideals in general; and this better
                        we shall get only by admitting that we have not already got the best.
                    Leaving alone the epic feats of the old spirit of duty, the tragedies of
                        Jeanie Deans and Maggie Tulliver, the lesser, though not less astonishing,
                        heroism shown us in some of Mary Wilkins’s New England stories, we have all of us witnessed the
                        action of that moral training which thwarted personal preferences and
                        repugnances, and victoriously silenced their claims. We have all of us heard
                        of women (particularly in the times of our mothers and grandmothers)
                        refusing the man they loved and marrying the man of whom their parents
                        approved; we still look on, every day, at lives dragged along in hated
                        companionship; at talents—nay actual vocations—suppressed in deference to
                        family prejudice or convenience: acts of spiritual mutilation so thorough as
                        often to minimise their own suffering, changing the current of life,
                        atrophying organic possibilities in such a way that the victim’s subsequent
                        existence was not actively unhappy, and not even obviously barren. Such
                        things still go on all round us. The difference now is that the minor
                        sacrifices are no longer taken for granted by all lookers?on; and the grand,
                        heroic self?immolation no longer universally applauded. There has arisen (it
                        began, not without silly accompaniments enough, and disgusting ones, in the
                        eighteenth century) an active suspiciousness towards all systematic
                        tampering with human nature. We have had to recognise all the mischief we
                        have done by always knowing better than the mechanical and spiritual forces
                        of the universe; we are getting to believe more and more in the organic, the
                        constitutional, and the unconscious; and there is an American book (by the
                        late Mr. Marsh) on the disastrous consequences of cutting down forests,
                        draining lakes, and generally subverting natural arrangements in our greed
                        for immediate advantages, which might be taken, every chapter of it, as an
                        allegorical exhibition of the views to
                        which many people are tending on the subject of religious and social
                        discipline.
                    We have had to recognise, moreover, that a great deal of all the discipline
                        and self?sacrifice hitherto so universally recommended has been for the
                        benefit of individuals, and even classes, who by no means reciprocated
                        towards their victims; and we cannot deny that there is a grain of truth in
                        Nietzsche’s contempt for what he calls the “Ethics of Slaves.” And, finally,
                        we see very plainly that the reasonableness and facility of thorough?going
                        self?sacrifice is intimately connected with a belief that such
                        self?sacrifice would be amply compensated in another existence: it was
                        rational to give up the present for the future; it is not rational to prefer
                        a future which is problematic to a present which alone is quite certain. In
                        this way have all of us who think at all begun to think differently from our
                        fathers; indeed, we feel upon this point even more than we actually think.
                        We warn people not to give up their possibilities of activity and happiness
                        in deference to the wishes of others. We almost unconsciously collect
                        instances of such self?sacrifice as has entailed the damage of others,
                        instances of the tissues of the social fabric being insidiously rotted
                        through the destruction of one of its human cells; and these instances,
                        alas! are usually correct and to the point. We even invent, or applaud the
                        invention of, other instances which are decidedly far?fetched: for instance,
                        Mrs. Alving producing her son’s hereditary malady by not acquiescing more
                        openly in his father’s exuberant joy of life; and Pastor Rosmer
                        destroying, by his scruples, the resources for happiness of the less
                        scrupulous Rebecca.
                    
                    I have chosen these examples on purpose, for they have enabled me to give a
                        name to these portions of the anarchical tendencies of our day: we are, all
                        of us who look a little around us and feel a little for others, more or less
                        infected with Ibsenism; conscious or unconscious followers of
                        the Ibsenite gospel which Mr. Bernard Shaw¹ preaches with jaunty fanaticism. This seems, on the whole, a
                        very good thing. Except, perhaps, in the question of manners, of courtesy,
                        particularly between the sexes (æsthetic superfluities, but which help to
                        make life liveable), I feel persuaded that even the most rabid Ibsenism will
                        be advantageous in the long run. The more we let nature work for us, the
                        more we employ our instincts and tendencies, instead of thwarting them, the
                        less will be the waste, the greater the achievement. But in all similar
                        reactions against past exaggeration there is apt to be a drawback; alongside
                        of a great gain, a certain loss; and this we should do our utmost to
                        minimise. The old conception of duty was warped by the fearful error of
                        thinking that human nature is bad; or, as we moderns would express it, that
                        the instincts of the individual are hostile to the community. This was,
                        calmly looked at, monstrous. But are we not, perhaps, on the brink of a
                        corresponding error, less enormous of course, but large enough to grow a
                        fine crop of misery? The error, I mean, of taking for granted that human
                        nature is already entirely good; that the instincts, desires, nay, interests
                        of the individual are necessarily in accordance with the good ¹ “The Quintessence
                            of lbsenism”—and implicitly wherever else Ibsenism is not itself being
                            attacked by G.B.S. of the
                        community. The Ibsenian theory is right in saying that there are lots of
                        people, a majority, even, who had much better have had their own way. But is
                        the Ibsenian theory right in supposing that certain other persons (and there
                        may be strands of such in the best of us), persons like Captain Alving, or
                        Rebecca West, or Hedda Gabler, or the Master Builder, would have become
                        harmless and desirable if no one had interfered with their self?indulgence,
                        their unscrupulousness, their inborn love of excitement, or their inborn
                            ego?mania? Surely not. There is not
                        the smallest reason why the removal of moral stigma and of self?criticising
                        ideals should reduce these people’s peculiar instincts (and these people, I
                        repeat, are mere types of what is mixed up in most of us) to moderation.
                    Nor is moderation the remedy for all evils. There are in us tendencies to
                        feel and act which survive from times when the mere preservation of
                        individual and of race was desirable quite unconditionally; but which, in
                        our altered conditions, require not moderating, but actually replacing by
                        something more discriminating, less wasteful and mischievous. Vanity, for
                        instance, covetousness, ferocity, are surely destined to be evolved away,
                        the useful work they once accomplished being gradually performed by
                        instincts of more recent growth which spoil less in the process.
                        Improvement, in the moral life as in any other, is a matter of
                        transformation; if we are to use our instincts, our likings and dislikings,
                        to carry us from narrower circles of life to wider ones, we must work
                        unceasingly at reconstituting those likings and dislikings themselves. Now,
                        the evolution by which our ego has become
                            less incompatible with its neighbours
                        has taken place, largely, by the mechanism of ideals and duties, of
                        attaching to certain acts an odium sufficient to counterbalance their
                        attraction; till it has become more and more difficult to enjoy oneself
                        thoroughly at other folks’ cost. And this Ibsenites are apt to forget.
                    Ibsenites ask whether it was not horrible that Claudio should be put to death
                        because Isabella stickled about chastity; that an innocent Effie Deans
                        should be hanged because Jeanie had cut?and?dried ideas of veracity; that
                        Brutus’s son should die because his father was so rigidly law?abiding. But
                        it would have been far more horrible for the world at large if people had
                        always been ready to sacrifice chastity, veracity, or legality to family
                        feelings; indeed, could such have been the case, the world, or at least
                        humankind, would probably have gone to pieces before Claudio, or Effie, or
                        the son of Brutus had been born. Cut?and?dried notions of conduct are
                        probably exactly commensurate with moral slackness. We do not require to
                        deter people from what they do not want to do, nor to reward them for what
                        they would do unrewarded. The very difficulty of acting spontaneously in any
                        given way demands the formation of more or less unreasoning habits; the
                        difficulty of forming desirable habits demands the coercive force of public
                        opinion; and the insufficient power of mere opinion necessitates that appeal
                        to brute force which is involved in all application of the law. The
                        oversight of Ibsenian anarchists (whatever Ibsen’s individual views on the
                        subject) is that of imagining that duties, ideals, laws can be judged by
                        examining their action in the individual
                        case; for their use, their evolutional raison
                            d’être, is only for the general run.
                    The champions of the Will of the Ego, whether represented by
                        bluff Bernard Shaw or by ambiguous Maurice Barrès,¹ start from the supposition that because
                        the individual is a concrete existence, while the species is obviously an
                        abstraction, the will of the individual can alone be a reality, and the will
                        of the species must be a figment. They completely forget that there is not
                        one concrete individual, but an infinite number of concrete individuals, and
                        that what governs the world is, therefore, the roughly averaged will of all
                        these concrete individuals. The single individual may will to
                            live as hard as he can, will to expand, assimilate, reproduce,
                        cultivate his moi, or anything else
                        besides; but the accomplishment of that Will of his—nay, the bare existence
                        of himself and his Will—depends entirely upon the Will of the species.
                        Without the permission of that abstract entity which he considers a figment,
                        the concrete and only really real individual would never have realised his
                        individual existence at all. This is not saying that his own will is not to
                        react against the will of the species; for the will of the species is merely
                        the averaged will of its component individuals, and as the individual will
                        alters, so must the averaged will differ. The opinions and ideals and
                        institutions of the present and the future are unconsciously, and in some
                        cases consciously, modified, however infinitesimally, by the reactions of
                        every living man and woman; and the ¹ “L’Ennemi des Lois,” “Le Jardin de
                            Bérénice,” “Un Homme Libre.”
                        more universal this atomic individual modification, the higher the
                        civilisation, the greater the bulk of happiness attained and attainable.
                        Meanwhile ideals, commandments, institutions are, each for its own time, so
                        many roads, high roads, if not royal roads, to the maximum of good behaviour
                        possible in any given condition. Without them, people would have to carry
                        their virtuous potentialities through bogs and briars, where most of them
                        would remain sticking. Succeeding generations, knowing more of the soil and
                        employing more accurate measurements, making, moreover, free use of blasting
                        powder, may build shorter and easier roads, along which fewer persons will
                        die; roads also in a greater variety of directions, that every one may get
                        near his real destination. And the more each individual keeps his eyes open
                        to the inconveniences and dangers of the existing roads to righteousness,
                        and airs his criticisms thereof, the better: for the majority, which is as
                        slow as the individual is quick, is not likely to destroy the old
                        thoroughfares before having made itself new ones. The Ibsenite anarchists
                        are right in reminding us that there is really nothing holy in such a road;
                        for holiness is a quality, not of institutions, but of character, and a man
                        can be equally holy along a new road as along an old one; alas! as holy
                        along a wrong road as along a right one. But we, on the other hand, must
                        remind the Ibsenites that new or old, right or wrong, such high roads are
                        high roads to the advantage not always of the single individual at any given
                        moment, but of the majority at most times, or, at least, of the majority
                        composed of the most typical individuals.
                
                
                
                    II
                    After our doubts regarding the validity of the ideals and institutions to
                        which society expects each individual voluntarily to conform, come doubts,
                        even more necessary and natural, concerning the majesty of the methods by
                        which society enforces its preference on such individuals as fail to conform
                        spontaneously thereunto.
                    Such doubts as these are by no means due to the growth of sympathy only, to
                        what is called, and sometimes really is, mere sentimental weakness. Together
                        with disbelief in a theologically appointed universe, we have witnessed the
                        growth of respect both for fact and for logic; and, as a consequence, we no
                        longer regard the infringement of a human law as the rebellion to the will
                        of God. We have replaced the notion of sin by the notion of
                            crime; and the particular act which we happen to call a
                            crime is no longer, in our eyes, a detached and
                        spontaneously generated fact in a single individual character, but the
                        result of a dozen converging causes, of which this individual character may
                        be only one, while the constitution of surrounding society is sure to be
                        another of the determinants. We recognise also that while, on the one hand,
                        the capacity for committing certain acts intolerable to the majority does
                        not imply utter worthlessness in many other directions; on the other hand,
                        the thorough?going perversity which renders an individual criminal an
                        unmitigated evil to his fellow?creatures involves constitutional and
                        irresistible tendencies which are incompatible with any notion of
                        responsibility. All this comes to saying
                        that the coercion and punishment of offenders has become a question not of
                        morality, but of police; that it has ceased to be a sort of holy sacrifice
                        to God, and grown to be a rough?and?ready way of getting rid of a nuisance.
                        And this has altered our feelings from the self?complacency of a priest to
                        the humiliation of an unwilling scavenger. We are getting a little ashamed
                        of the power to imprison, bully, outlaw, destroy either life or life’s
                        possibilities, which constitutes the secular arm of all
                        theoretic morality.
                    Is such a feeling mistaken? Surely only inasmuch as it would turn a desirable
                        possibility for the future into an unmanageable actuality in the present.
                        For, however much we may admit that bodily violence, and the kind of
                        discipline dependent thereupon, are necessary in the present, and will be
                        necessary for longer than we dare foresee in the future, we must open our
                        eyes to the fact that all progress represents a constant diminution thereof.
                        Similarly we must be careful that all our methods (even the methods
                        including authoritativeness and violence) shall tend to the eventual
                        disappearance of violence towards human beings and authoritativeness towards
                        adults; violence remaining our necessary method with brutes and
                        authoritativeness with children, but even in these relations diminishing to
                        the utmost. For violence, and the discipline founded on violence (as
                        distinguished from self?discipline sprung from intelligence and
                        adaptability) means not merely suffering, but wastefulness worse than
                        suffering, because it entails it: waste of the possibilities of adaptation
                        in him who exerts it, as well as of constitutional improvement in him who
                        suffers from it. Waste above all of the
                            Reality, the reality which must be slightly different in
                        every individual case, reality containing the possibilities of new
                        arrangements and new faculties; reality which we cruelly disregard whenever
                        we treat individual cases as merely typical, whenever we act on the one half
                        of a case containing similarity, and neglect the other half of the case
                        containing difference. Such wastefulness of method is necessary just in
                        proportion as we are deficient in the power of seeing, feeling,
                        sympathising, discriminating; deficient in the power of selecting,
                        preferring, and postponing. Violence over body and over mind; violence
                        against the will of others; violence against fact: these represent the
                        friction in the imperfect machinery of life; and progress is but the
                        substitution of human mechanism more and more delicate and solid, through
                        which the movement is ever greater, the friction ever less.
                    Meanwhile, do we possess a human mechanism as good as it might be? Tolstoi,
                        Ibsen, the author of the very suggestive dialogues on Anarchy and Law, even
                        egoistic decadents like Maurice Barrès, the whole heterogeneous crusade of
                        doubt and rebellion, are doing good work in showing that we have not; in
                        forcing us to consider what proportions of subtlety and clumsiness, of
                        movement and of friction, of utility and waste, are represented by the
                        system of coercion and punishment accepted in our days. And such an
                        examination will surely prove that in this matter we have developed our
                        ingenuity less (sometimes atrophied it), and proceeded with far greater
                        hurry and slovenliness than with any of the other products of civilisation.
                        Try and imagine where building, agriculture, manu? facture, any of the most common crafts would be,
                        had it been carried on throughout the centuries as we still carry on the
                        moralisation of mankind; if stone, brick, soil, manure, raw material, let
                        alone the physical and chemical laws, had been treated in the
                        rough?and?ready manner in which we treat human thought and impulse! But the
                        fact is that we have required food, clothing, and shelter so bitterly
                        hitherto, that all our best intelligence and energy have gone to diminish
                        wastefulness in their production; and no time has remained, no power of
                        discrimination, for making the best of intellectual and moral qualities.
                        Indeed, we have dealt, and we deal only, with the bad moral
                        qualities of mankind; those that can be seen in spare five minutes and with
                        a rushlight; nay, those which are stumbled over in the dark and kicked into
                        corners. We may hope for improvement almost in proportion as we recognise
                        that punishment is the expression not of responsibility towards heaven on
                        the part of the malefactor, but of incapacity and hurry on the part of those
                        whom the malefactor damages. For here even as in the question of duties and
                        ideals, what we are suffering from is lack of discrimination, paucity of
                        methods, insufficiency of formulas; and what we want is not less law, but
                        more law: law which will suit the particular case which is a reality and has
                        results, not merely the general run, which is an abstraction and takes care
                        of itself.
                
                
                    III
                    Out of these various doubts about standards of conduct and social
                        arrangements there arises gradually a
                        central core of doubt, to which the others can be logically reduced; the
                        doubt, namely, whether the individuality is not cramped, enfeebled, rendered
                        unfit for life, by obedience to any kind of abstraction, to anything save
                        its own individual tendencies. Oddly enough, the psychological theory had in
                        this matter preceded the thorough?going practical application; and the
                        implicit principles of subsequent anarchical views were expressed by the
                        earliest and least read of anarchist writers, Max Stirner (Kaspar
                            Schmidt)¹, who died so long ago as
                        1856.
                    Max Stirner builds up his system—for his hatred of system is expressed in
                        elaborately systematic form—upon the notion that the Geist, the intellect which forms conceptions, is a colossal
                        cheat for ever robbing the individual of its due, and marring life by
                        imaginary obstacles; a wicked sort of Archimago, whose phantasmagoria,
                            duty, ideal, vocation, aim, law, formula, can be described
                        only by the untranslatable German word Spuk, a decidedly undignified haunting by bogies. Against
                        this kingdom of delusion the human individual —der
                            Einzige—has been, since the beginning of time, slowly and
                        painfully fighting his way; never attaining to any kind of freedom, but
                        merely exchanging one form of slavery for another, slavery to the religious
                        delusion for slavery to the metaphysic delusion, slavery to divine right for
                        slavery to civic liberty; slavery to dogma, commandment, heaven and hell,
                        for slavery to sentiment, humanity, progress; all equally mere words,
                        conceits, figments, by which the wretched individual ¹ “Der Einzige und
                            sein Eigenthum.” has allowed
                        himself to be coerced and martyrised: the wretched individual who alone is a
                        reality.
                    This is the darkest, if not the deepest, pit of anarchical thought; and
                        through its mazes Stirner drags us round and round for as long a time as
                        Kant requires for his Categories, or the Mediæval Monk for the imitation of
                        Christ—both of which, by the way, are good examples of Spuk. But even as Dante clambered out of hell
                        by continuing the way he had come down, so we also can emerge from Stirner’s
                        negations by pursuing the arguments which had led into them. And, having got
                        to the individual as the only and original reality, we can work our way back
                        to those subsidiary and contingent realities, the individual’s duties,
                        ideals, and institutions.
                    There is nothing real, says Stirner, but the various conditions of the
                        individual; the rest is delusion, Spuk.
                        But if only the ego is real, how can
                        anything else interfere with it? If such abstractions and figments as
                            God, State, Family, Morality (or whatever the name of the
                        particular bogy), can cramp, cabin, maim our individuality; then, since our
                        individuality alone has reality, these various delusions must be a part of
                        our individuality. Free yourselves, says Stirner, from your own ideas. But
                        our ideas, whether spontaneously generated in ourselves or assimilated from
                        others, must, in order to have real powers such as we attribute to them, be
                        a part of ourself: and if we sacrifice any other part of ourself to those
                        ideas, it is a proof that they, and not the sacrificed part, must be, at
                        that particular conjunction of circumstances, the dominant part of our
                            ego. Stirner’s psychology  admits love for individuals as a determinant of
                        action; and similarly regard for the reciprocity of self?interest. But is
                        not love for mankind, however vague the mankind, and regard for principle,
                        however abstract the principle, quite as much a real active power of our
                        nature? If Stirner is made uncomfortable, as he says, by the frown on the
                        face of his beloved, and “kisses the frown away”—to rid himself of his
                        discomfort; why, so are other egos—less
                        numerous, but not less real—made uncomfortable by the look of pain in men
                        and women whom they do not care for, nay, by the mere knowledge that men and
                        women, even animals, whom they have never seen, are suffering, or are likely
                        to suffer: and, in certain egos—rarest,
                        but most efficaciously real—there will arise an impulse—yes, something so
                        irresistibly real as a constitutional impulse—to sacrifice everything for
                        the sake of diminishing that unseen, that possible suffering: suffering
                        present in hospitals, in factories, in slums, in prisons, or future
                        suffering in hell.
                    And similarly there are egos which are made
                        as wretched by the neglect of some civic or religious duty as Stirner could
                        possibly be by skipping a meal or losing a night’s sleep. It is quite a
                        different question whether such ideas as these, ideas whose coercive power
                        reveals them an integral part of the ego,
                        happen or not to coincide with the courses most desirable for the total
                        welfare either of one single ego or of a
                        great number of egos. The point at issue
                        is whether or not such active factors in life can be treated as separate
                        from life itself; it is a different question similarly whether any more
                        egoistic preference, say for alcohol or gambling, happens in the long run to tally with the
                            ego’s advantage. Stirner, indeed,
                        entrenches himself behind notion that wherever there exists any kind of
                        over?mastering desire, need, or idea, the ego ceases to exist. But, as a psychological fact, at any
                        given moment of reality, some desire, need, or idea, or group of desires,
                        needs, or ideas, must inevitably be having the mastery,
                        otherwise impulse would disappear and action of all kinds cease. For the
                            ego which refuses to be dominated by
                        any particular idea or any particular desire, be it externalised as
                        humanity, duty, or merely tobacco or bottle, is an ego dominated by some other idea or desire, by the idea or
                        desire that it ought to be free from such domination in particular, or from
                        all conscious domination in general. But as to an ego which, at any given moment, is otherwise than dominated
                        by some feeling, impulse, or thought, that kind of ego is, oddly enough, exactly the thing which Stirner is
                        waging war against—an abstraction, a nonentity, a figment of logic, of which
                        we have no practical experience. Yes, indeed, nothing but the ego is efficient; since, to be efficient,
                        everything else must have been absorbed into or must impinge upon it.
                    This anarchical psychology of Stirner’s (and something similar, however
                        unformulated, exists in the mind also of Maurice Barrès and of Bernard Shaw)
                        brings home to me how much we stand in need of a new science of will,
                        thought, and emotion; or, rather, of the practical application of such a
                        science of the soul as recent years have already given us. It would put us
                        equally above the new?fangled theories of freeing the ego by abolishing ideals and habits, and above
                        the old? fashioned notions of thwarting the
                            ego in the name of morality. For it
                        would show that the ego is not the
                        separate momentary impulse, but the organic hierarchy of united and
                        graduated impulses; a unity which being evolved by contact with similar
                        unities, can be made as harmonious with them as the mere separate impulses,
                        referring to mere partial and momentary relations, are likely to be the
                        reverse. This being understood, we shall seek less for the outer discipline,
                        the constraining of the individual by society, than for the inner
                        discipline, the subordination of the individual’s lesser and also less
                        durable motives to the greater and more durable. We shall, once we have
                        really conceived this organic unity of the individual, desist from our
                        wasteful and cruel attempts to reduce all men to one pattern, to extract
                        from all the same kind of service. But in such healthy development of the
                            ego, in such organic, inner
                        discipline, the conscious reference to standards, the conscious desire for
                        harmony, will be an indispensable means. Duties and ideals will again be
                        valued above all things; not, indeed, as intellectual formulas, but as
                        factors of habitual emotional conditions. For the chief value of duty or
                        ideal is the capacity fostered thereby of being dutiful, of acting in
                        accordance with an ideal. Among the great gifts for which we must thank the
                        theological systems of the past, the Puritan element in every creed, the
                        most valuable are not the tables of permissions and prohibitions, always
                        variable, and still very rough and ready. The splendid work of Puritanism is
                        the training, nay, the conception, of a real individuality, the habit of
                        self?dominion, of postponing, foregoing the immediate, momentary and  temporal for the sake of a distant,
                        permanent, and, inasmuch as intellectually recognised, spiritual something.
                        The moral value of Jeanie Deans is not in her conviction that under no
                        circumstances must a lie be told (although her conviction was correct in 999
                        cases out of 1,000), but in her incapacity of telling a lie so long as she
                        was convinced against it. Puritanism is psychologically right in its
                        implicit recognition of the superiority of the habitual condition of feeling
                        over the transient impulse. For what I habitually wish to be
                        represents, or ought to represent, the bulk of my nature and organisation
                        more really than what at a given moment I actually am. If
                        individualism is to triumph, if any good is to come (and it doubtless will)
                        out of contemporary anarchic theories of the ego, it will be by an increase rather than a diminution of
                        the healthy Puritan element. It is, after all, the Puritans in temper who
                        have done all successful rebellion against items of Puritan codes; whereas
                        the egoist of the modern type is, nine times out of ten, the sort of person
                        who tolerates evil for want of the self?discipline and consistency necessary
                        to stop it.
                
                
                    IV
                    After the psychology of anarchy comes its metaphysics, or, I would almost
                        say, its theology. Theology, because, not satisfied with appealing to our
                        reason, it meddles with the instincts which seek for the quality we call
                            divine, and for the emotions that quality awakens; and
                        theology also, because it occasionally even
                        suggests the making of new gods, the creation of a strange metaphorical
                        Olympus. Like all other theology, it is esoteric and exoteric; it has its
                        treatises of highest metaphysical subtlety; and its little popular
                        catechisms, quite full of explicit absurdities. Such a catechism as this was
                        made up by the late J.A. Symonds out of the opinions, or what he took to be
                        the opinions, of Walt Whitman. It is the declaration of the equal rights and
                        equal dignity of all the parts of man’s nature; and implicity therefore of
                        the foolishness of all the hierarchies which various creeds and various
                        systems of ethics have set up in the soul and the life of mankind. It is
                        characteristically different in tone from the anarchical utterances of the
                        egotistic decadent Barrès and the metaphysical Nihilist Stirner; it is
                        eminently Anglo—Saxon in a sort of unconscious optimistic cant. Its
                        subversiveness consists in an attempt to set things right; but it does so,
                        not by pleading that nothing is evil, but rather by insisting. that
                        everything is good. The democratic view, as it is called, of Whitman, as
                        expounded by Symonds, consists in asserting that all things are equally
                        divine.
                    Now if you start with identifying divine with divinely
                            ordained, and identify the Divinity with the bare fact of
                        existence, then all things are certainly portions of the Divinity, and, in
                        so far, divine. But if all things are in this sense
                            divine, then divine ceases to be a quality which evokes any
                        sense of preference; then divine is no longer an expression
                        commensurate with esteem, still less legitimately productive of emotional
                        satisfaction; if all things are divine, why then some may be divine and
                        honourable and others  divine and
                        dishonourable. There is something akin in this anarchic theology to the
                        juggling with the word value of Karl Marx and his followers. It
                        is the acceptance of the emotional quality of a word after emptying out the
                        meaning which had produced it. Good, noble, divine; a hierarchy of words
                        denoting such qualities as we think especially desirable; denoting fuller
                        possession of that which we esteem most in ourselves, be it strength or
                        beauty, moral or intellectual helpfulness; words which awaken in our mind
                        the sense of approval, of respect, and finally of reverence and wonder.
                        Perform a little sleight?of?hand, and shuffle divinity with
                            God, God with Nature,
                            Nature with Being, and you contrive to awaken
                        that emotion of rareness, superiority, wonderfulness, in connection with...
                        with what? O irony of self?delusion! with everything
                        equally.
                    This subversion of all appreciation is the furthest possible from being, as
                        Whitman seems to have imagined, and as Symonds reiterates, a highly
                        scientific thought. For science teaches us that all life, and especially the
                        life we human beings call progress, is not a mere affirmation,
                        so to speak, of mere passive being, of “what is—is”—but a selection and
                        rejection, the perpetual assertion of fitness against unfitness, a constant
                        making of inequality. To our feelings, and to our mind (unless it become a
                        word without intellectual and emotional meaning) the divine is
                        the supremely desirable. According to our condition that desirable has
                        inevitably shifted quarters, but it has always been, and must always be, the
                        exceptional, the exceptional which becomes, perhaps, by dint of our seeking it, the rule; our desires being
                        set free to seek something new, some other rare thing which we would fain
                        make common. And in this way our spiritual progress has consisted, most
                        probably, in the gradual relegation to the obscure, half?conscious,
                        automatic side of our nature of instincts and functions which have once been
                        uppermost; in the gradual raising of the level of the desirable, the
                        contemplated, above the necessities of the moment and the body, above the
                        interest of the ego. There is no place for
                        democracy à la Whitman in the soul; its law is
                        coordination, subordination, hierarchy.
                    The “Theories of Anarchy and Law,” of Mr. H.B. Brewster, is unknown to the
                        public just in proportion, I should say, to its merits. It takes no ordinary
                        reader to appreciate its subtlety of analysis and boldness of hypothesis.
                        And the marvellous impartiality which sees every side of every argument
                        equally, and refrains from all judgment, is positively distressing even to
                        the most admiring reader, who seeks in vain for something to attack or to
                        espouse, who gropes, blinded by excess of light, for the unclutchable
                        personality of the author. Behind which of the speakers of these dialogues
                        shall we look for him? At which moment does he shift from the one side to
                        the other? Is Mr. Brewster on the whole for or against intellectual and
                        ethical Nihilism? Be this as it may, the book is on the whole a perfect
                        gospel of anarchy, because, in the first place, the anarchical opinions,
                        although they represent only one quarter of the doctrines represented, are
                        those we are least accustomed to and consequently most impressed by; and
                        because, in the second place, the very
                        impartiality, the refusal to decide, to commend and condemn, leaves an
                        impression of the utter vanity of all formula and all system.
                    It is, therefore, only as an expression of anarchic tendencies that I wish,
                        in this connection, to mention the book. And principally because it affords,
                        in the most remarkable form, the key?note of what I should call the
                        transcendental theology of anarchy. I use the word theology once more
                        advisedly. For Mr. Brewster has separated from the various practical and
                        speculative items which held it in solution, and distilled into the subtlest
                        essence, a transcendental principle which lurks, however unperceived, in all
                        anarchic writings, a transcendental equivalent of the old Persian and
                        Manichean dualism. At the end of all the doubts, doubts about ideals,
                        duties, institutions, formulas, whether they are good or evil, arises the
                        final doubt: have we a right to prefer good to evil? Does the universe live
                        only in the being of God; does the universe not live equally in the being of
                        Satan? The pessimistic philosophers of our century have accustomed us to
                        conceive of forces in creation which are irreconcileable with benevolence.
                        The later Darwinism is training us to perceive that in the process of
                        evolution there is, alongside of the selection of the fittest, the rendering
                        even unfitter of the initially unfit, degenerative tendencies as well as
                        tendencies to adaptation. We have had to admit that destruction is a factor
                        in all construction. The doubt arises, may not destruction be just as great
                        a power as construction? Not as its servant, but as its rival, its equal.
                        Are we not Pharisees in condemning all
                        persons and instincts unsuitable, forsooth, to the purposes of our race and
                        civilisation, when those persons and instincts are as much realities as any
                        others? Are we not Philistines in condemning all views of life which do not
                        square with our particular intellectual organisation? Is not what we call
                        evil a reality, and does chaos perhaps not exist as truly as order? Shall we
                        not recognise the great dualism?
                    By no means. We are so constituted that evil cannot please nor chaos satisfy
                        us; and our constitution must be, for us, the law of the universe. For we
                        conceive the universe only in terms of our own existence, and the qualities
                        we attribute to it are only modes of our own feeling. All we can be sure of
                        about good and evil, chaos and order, is that they are conceptions of ours.
                        Are they conceptions, and it so, to what extent corresponding, of anything
                        else? We cannot tell. What we call forces of destruction and disorder are
                        such to us; nay, they are forces perhaps only to us; it is only through our
                        own aversion that we know of destruction and disorder at all. The origin of
                        all such doubts, and their solution also, lies in the nature of the doubter.
                        In the little world which our faculties, our spiritual and practical needs,
                        as well as our bodily senses, have created for us out of the infinite
                        unknown universe, it is our human instincts which decide, as they have
                        determined, everything. And among the ideas they have set on foot they
                        decide for good against evil, for order against chaos.
                    These discussions on anarchy and law, these 
                        struggles between what we have and what we want, should give a result more
                        practically important than even the most important application in practice;
                        for, in our life, a habit of feeling and thinking, an attitude, is of wider
                        influence than a rule of conduct. The attempt to verify our moral compass,
                        the deliberate readiness to do so, might result in the safest kind of
                        spiritual peace. For, to be able to see in all that we call bad,
                            wrong, false, the cause and effect, the immense naturalness and
                        inevitableness, its place in the universe as distinguished from its place in
                        our own liking or convenience; to be able to face fact as
                            fact, as something transcending all momentary convenience
                        or pleasantness; yet at the same time to preserve our human preferences, to
                        exercise our human selection all the more rigidly because we know that it is
                            our selection, reality offering more, but we accepting only
                        what we choose; such a double attitude would surely be the best. It would be
                        the only attitude thoroughly true, just, kind, and really practical, giving
                        us peace and dignity and energy for struggle without hoodwinking or
                        arrogance. It would be more respectful both to our own nature, and to the
                        nature which transcends ours, to recognise that what mankind wants it wants
                        because it is mankind; and to leave off claiming from the universe
                        conformity to human ideals and methods.
                    The sense of this (however vague) has been furthered by occasional fortunate
                        conditions of civilisation, and it is, most probably, constitutional in
                        certain happily balanced natures. It is what gives the high serenity to men
                        of the stamp of Plato and Goethe and
                        Browning; they can touch everything, discuss everything, understand the
                        reason of everything, yet remain with preferences unaltered. Perhaps we may
                        all some day attain, by employing equally our tendencies to doubt and our
                        tendencies to believe, to such a fearless, yet modest, recognition of what
                        is, and also of what we wish it to be.
                
            
            
            
                EMERSON AS A TEACHER OF LATTER?DAY TENDENCIES
                
                EMERSON AS A TEACHER OF LATTER?DAY TENDENCIES
                
                    I
                    IN the following notes upon Emerson no attempt has been made to
                        assign him his place in the kingdom of thought and expression, either by
                        tracing his spiritual generations and kinships, or by comparing him quality
                        by quality—so much more or less of intuition, logic, synthesis and
                        analysis—with the thinkers who seem measurable in the same scales. Still
                        less, to account for the peculiarities of the work by the peculiarities of
                        the man, of his nation and times.
                    The relation I should wish to set forth is that between Emerson’s writings,
                        and one of their readers—myself. For the relation between writer and reader,
                        where such really exists, implies the originating of ideas and states of
                        feeling such as did not exist in either reader or writer taken singly, the
                        latent peculiarities of the one being vitalised and altered by the fruitful
                        contact of the other. The thought, the feeling thus generated may be far
                        from uncommon, and may be shortlived and comparatively barren; but it is an
                        organic particle of that vast, fluctuating mass of spiritual life whence all
                        thought and all feeling arise, and with?
                        out which the most creative minds could not create, or, could they create,
                        would be creative to no purpose.
                    This action and reaction, give and take, between reader and writer is worthy
                        of attention quite apart from the value of the ideas which it may have
                        brought forth. It would afford another demonstration of the relativeness of
                        all judgment, of the incompleteness of all definite views, and it would
                        constitute an additional lesson, very wholesome for our conceit and
                        impatience, on the poverty and faultiness of each individual’s contribution
                        to truth, as compared with the excellence of the unindividual mass of
                        thought made up of such contributions.
                    As regards Emerson, I am aware of his exceptional influence in maturing my
                        thought. And it is my impression that in return for the partial change he
                        has thus effected—since only partial changes are valuable, implying by their
                        partiality the presence of some original tendencies—I have been able to
                        alter some of his main ideas in a way such as to render them more fruitful:
                        clearing them of certain sterilising excrescences, and grafting them on to
                        the living thought of our days. My reader, in his turn, will alter and prune
                        and graft my alterations, or cast them aside as useless, or useless at least
                        to himself.
                    But be this as it may, my notes will be valuable in showing one of the ways
                        in which reader and writer unite to form a something new. For it will be
                        visible in them that Emerson helped me first by arousing considerable
                        antagonism, and that the reaction against his antagonistic peculiarities so
                        helped to clear my own ideas, that I grew eventually able to approach him with impartiality, to separate
                        deliberately what disfigured him in my eyes; and, having put aside these
                        disfiguring portions, to enter his presence in a mood worthy of making me
                        receive the inestimable gifts of his soul.
                
                
                    II
                    Emerson, like Ruskin, like Tolstoi, belongs to the category, once numerous,
                        now daily diminishing in number, of mystics and symbolists. Their method is
                        innate in him, if we may call method that which implies the absence rather
                        than the presence of intellectual discipline: truth is perceived by flashes,
                        in luminous points amid the darkness, without any attempt to work it out, to
                        shed the light of one opinion upon the neighbouring opinion, to obtain a
                        continuity of solid, illuminated ground.
                    He openly deprecates any attempts at consecutiveness, he warns mankind
                        against wanting to do that which cannot be done without the wanting, against
                        wishing to be or to have what they are not or have not already. He is the
                        apostle of spontaneity; in his consuming passion for reality he confounds
                        the deliberate with the artificial, and the artificial with the futile. The
                        benefit of Emerson’s advice on this head depends on the recognition that
                        there are some things we can never do, some things we can never have or
                        be—namely, all those of whose nature there is not in ourselves already a
                        germ, a possibility. The danger of Emerson’s advice consists in making us
                        believe that the actual is the potential, that what we are not we cannot
                        become, that what we have not yet got we
                        may never obtain. There will be a distinct gain in spontaneity, which
                        spontaneity means success, and a diminution of the kind of effort which
                        means only failure, despair, or, worst of all, the wasting, the spoiling of
                        what is valuable. There will be a much smaller number of shams, and a
                        greater proportion of satisfactory products; which means an increase of
                        happiness and what conduces thereto. But, on the other hand, there will be a
                        waste of potentialities, of the things that might have been; and therewith a
                        great loss in completeness, thoroughness, balance, and in all things
                        intellectual, of lucidity and efficacy for application to practice. The
                        world will not be in thorough working order, since working order implies
                        co?ordination, co?operation, compromise. Things will be comparatively
                        spasmodic, and, in a measure, sterile. This absence of lucidity, this
                        sporadic, sterile tendency, is visible in Emerson himself; it is the
                        drawback of his doctrine, of his practice of spontaneity.
                    Yet it is doubtful whether it is not better thus—better that the
                        exaggerations and shortcomings should be corrected by Emerson’s readers than
                        forestalled by Emerson himself. It is possible that with men of this
                        mystic?symbolical temper the greater lucidity and practical applicability
                        (since practice is based on reality, and reality can be attained only by
                        being lucid) might fail to compensate for the diminution in suggestiveness
                        and directness. The prophetically enounced thought works its way deeper,
                        perhaps, into the mind of the hearer, when it is such as does not graze off
                        the surface. It sets the mind a?thinking (when itself thinkable)  more than the carefully argued thesis. So it is
                        well worth while to let the prophet babble occasional nonsense, talk, like
                        the earliest Christians and the Irvingites, in gibberish tongues, for the
                        sake of the great words of inspiration which drop, ever and anon, from his
                        superhuman lips.
                    But connection in our ideas, the quality of being thought out,
                        is valuable for more than itself. The act of bringing our ideas into mutual
                        dependence shows us also which of them are worthless: the union of a fallacy
                        with a truth, even if it produce no immediate jar, can produce but a vicious
                        consequence. We begin to doubt of our premiss on seeing its untenable
                        conclusions or side?issues. Here, then, comes in the danger of the
                        intellectual methods of Emerson, of all prophetic, clairvoyant, as
                        distinguished from prosaically logical, thinkers. These men can throw out a
                        falsehood or mere faulty approximation to truth, without being warned of
                        what they are doing. Nay, worse, they can hit upon a truth without that
                        truth destroying its corresponding error. In this system (or absence
                        thereof) of isolating ideas, everything is safe—the good and the bad can
                        rest at peace; the good does not inconvenience the bad, nor the bad
                        inconvenience the good. The thinker is never called upon to make a choice
                        among his thoughts, he may keep them all. Hence it is that these clairvoyant
                        thinkers give us so much of truth swimming in so much of falsehood, or
                            vice versâ. Hence, worst of all, that
                        they will be so serenely unconscious of the practical dangers of their
                        teachings. The metaphysical Schoolmen of the Middle Ages kept up the
                            standard of thinking and living; while
                        the mystics, their superiors in mind and in feeling, very frequently debased
                        it exceedingly.
                    And, moreover, this resting satisfied with one’s spontaneous intentions, as
                        distinguished from all attempts to connect and correct them, this habit of
                        never comparing one’s conceptions of things with each other must result in a
                        virtual refusal to examine either facts or other men’s views. No sense of
                        intellectual responsibility can be generated by modes of thought so casual
                        and disconnected. The thinker keeps his ideas apart, so they never clash; he
                        keeps them separate also from their own consequences, from the thought of
                        others, from the inconvenient testimony of reality. He clears all around
                        him; and soon comes to be the only mind, the only thought in the universe:
                        the universe becomes the image of his views of it; and all save the
                        intellect ceases to exist.
                    It is most curious to observe how Emerson, whose exquisite moral and æsthetic
                        sensibility is revealed in a thousand fragmentary utterances, uproots all
                        human sympathies and preferences in laying out his stony garden of the
                        intellect, but leaves them everywhere about, to bloom delightfully—little
                        unnoticed heaps of earth’s weeds in those fine concentric paths and beds of
                        intellectual spar and gravel. Thus, in the famous essay on “Friendship,”
                        that most extraordinary revelation of a passionate personality, he affects
                        to consider the friend as a mere intellectual excitement (all is over, he
                        tells us, once curiosity is satisfied); and even in placing his austere
                        bounds to such intellectual voluptuousness, he speaks only of his own
                            self?respect, his own spiritual
                        temperance, and the results of indulgence, or refraining upon his
                            own soul, with never a reference to the feelings, the poor
                        soft heart of the other party. Learn to check your fancies in friendship, to
                        refrain from your friend, to do without; learn to expect no reciprocity.
                        Why? Lest in your hurry you may engage another’s permanent affection where
                        you cannot give your own?—lest in your habit of constant spiritual union you
                        become selfish, exacting, or, in your desire for reciprocation, you grow
                        unable to give save where you receive? For not one of these reasons. No;
                        merely because of the risk to your intellectual independence, your
                        intellectual integrity and security. One would think, were it not for the
                        evidence of a hundred scattered utterances of most delicate lovingkindness,
                        that Emerson was a fierce intellectual egoist like Abelard, writing just
                        such letters to Heloise, answering her prayer for one gentle word with
                        chapters of theology, in the suppressed savageness of a mediæval ascetic,
                        who sees with disgust something that has once inflamed his senses but never
                        touched his heart.
                    And similarly he mentions pain, not as a horror whose existence all around we
                        must for ever struggle against—a horror the thought of which, as existing in
                        others, is almost as bad as its reality in ourselves—but as a possible
                        factor in producing the man of pure intellect—the justum et tenacem propositi virum.
                    For Emerson is perpetually repeating that all life is in the intellect—nay,
                        all reality. Hence a possibility of interest only in cause and effect—in the
                            why things are, not the how things should be.
                        Hence all matters  being referable only to
                        Intellect, Intellect—or rather, an intellect corresponding to his own—is
                        evidently God. And hence a perpetual worship, sometimes slightly savouring
                        of Moloch’s, of a Godhead which, in its apparent indifference to evil and
                        suffering, is indeed but the mist?magnified shadow of Emerson’s own Olympian
                        mind.
                    All things, therefore, are the symbol of Divinity, the forms in which the
                        Creative force chooses, Proteus?like, to mask. And for this reason nature,
                        all that is and can be, is noble. 
                    But Emerson is meanwhile the sport of a delusion: he conceives that what is
                        taking place within himself is happening also without. He is watching his
                        own mind, shadowed on the outer world, passing from object to object; and he
                        fancies that this vague and magnified himself must be God. Thus the
                        divinity—for Emerson the divinity passing into and through all things—is not
                        the power by virtue of which things are, but in reality the power by virtue
                        of which he perceives their existence. For Emerson, though often insisting
                        on the part played by the perceiving mind in all matters of perception,
                        refuses to consider that in the same way as the structure of the eye, which
                        makes a straight stick seem crooked in the water, so also the quality and
                        condition of the mind which perceives nature, is a fact inside
                        nature, and not outside it. If Emerson had any habits of systematic thought,
                        he could not avoid taking notice of this fact; he would be obliged, once
                        having suspected their nature, to examine methodically his own mental
                        operations. But being unhampered by any system, he can afford to look away from any fact which might disturb
                        him; and so, at the convenient moment, when it would have become clear that
                        thought cannot—any more than the senses can—handle absolute reality, he
                        looks away from himself, and looks in the direction of what he calls God.
                        Here, by no metaphysical sleight of hand, but by merely dropping the subject
                        and picking it up elsewhere, he has momentarily got rid of the identity
                        between the universal mind and his own. This intellect, self?created and
                        all?creating, is now no longer the mind of Emerson, moulding matter into so
                        many disguises for itself: it is the mind of the world. And who could deny
                        that the mind of the world, in so far as mind of the world, might sport with
                        matter, or call it up as a mere phantom out of nothingness? The purely
                        intellectual man, impatient of all that is not intellect, revolting from the
                        thought that anything save intellect can have reality, does thus attribute
                        his own temper to the Godhead—the Godhead with whom he fancies that, in
                        following any chain of cause and effect, he must be united and
                        identified.
                    Therefore [attempting to systematise what Emerson has thrown out in separate
                        statements] the divinity, inasmuch as the mere magnified reflexion of the
                        individual intellect, is necessarily what that individual interest happens
                        to be: that which makes or perceives all cause and effect. And so it comes
                        to pass that cause and effect, being made by the mind identical with God,
                        and hence by God Himself, become the Godlike; and the Godlike, Emerson has
                        been accustomed to think, is the same as the holy, the virtuous. In short,
                            all that is is right, not as Pope imagined, because it
                            was necessarily made to be right, but
                        merely because to be right is the same as to be, because
                            something else has been before and conditioned it. “It is
                        dislocation and detachment from the life of God,” we read in the Essay on
                        the poet, “that makes things ugly; and the poet who reattaches things to
                        nature and the whole—reattaching even artificial things and revelations of
                        nature to nature by a deeper insight—disposes very easily of disagreeable
                        facts.” This, extended into less pithy language, means merely that all is
                        right so long as it is understood; and that the scientific thinker, whom
                        Emerson misnames Poet, being able to demonstrate that even such things as
                        most shock our constitution are yet the inevitable results of certain other
                        things, can give us the satisfaction of seeing cause and effect and thereby
                        set our minds at rest about such “disagreeable facts” as it foolishly feels
                        annoyed at. Whatever is, being cause and effect, is an emanation of the
                        divinity, who is also cause and effect. And, as Emerson has been brought up
                        to connect morality with what other men call God (meaning thereby any of a
                        variety of things, but not cause and effect), Emerson perceives
                        that cause and effect must be moral. “Since everything in nature,” he says,
                        “answers to a moral power, if any phenomenon remains brute and dark, it is
                        because the corresponding faculty in the observer is not yet active”—that is
                        to say that the “brute and dark” phenomenon is not yet disposed of as cause
                        and effect. Thus to the connecting, reasoning mind, cause and effect having
                        become divine, came actually to mean morality. The evil fact is comfortably
                        settled once we have recognised its origin, and pain and death, disease  and degradation, may link hands with
                        whatever is fair and noble here below, and revolve mystically round the
                        Divinity and the divine human being in a rhythm of causation and logic,
                        making soul?music of is and was!
                    Nay, further—for it is easier sometimes for the intellect to endure evil than
                        that which, being the reverse of intellect, is more antagonistic to
                        it—Emerson formulates what has been blunderingly put into practice by
                        Whitman, and condenses into a few mystical words what Whitman extends into
                        grotesque rhapsodies of mixed beauty and dirt. “All the facts of the animal
                        economy,” says Emerson, “sex, nutriment, gestation, birth, growth, are
                        symbols of the passage of the world into the soul of man.”
                    But the soul of man, not being, as Emerson takes for granted, exclusively
                        devoted to logic, will not receive into itself with equanimity some of the
                        symbolical items. The soul of man protests against the contact of foulness
                        and baseness, injustice and pain, however much legitimated by logic. The
                        soul will not be satisfied with a divinity that governs mere cause and
                        effect—it requires a moral, an æsthetic rule.
                    In this fashion does the most cunning reader of the mind’s strange palimpsest
                        forget for the time being some of the mind’s most striking rubrics. This
                        delicate expert in exquisite nature leaves out of his reckoning some of
                        nature’s most essential qualities. He overlooks in his main philosophy what
                        is the burden of all his detail teaching—namely, that we require for our
                        spiritual satisfaction much more than the mere apprehension of cause and effect; that, besides
                        the wish to understand why things are, there is in us the more imperious
                        want to make things as they should be. He puts aside what elsewhere he
                        perpetually postulates, that, even as we have physical senses which are
                        disgusted by certain tastes and smells, despite all explanations of their
                        chemical reasons, so likewise we have spiritual instincts which, despite all
                        possible explanations of how and why, will always be revolted by whatever is
                        unjust, cruel, ugly, or gross. There is in us the logical faculty which
                        reduces all things to cause and effect, making them all equally important or
                        unimportant, according as the mind which perceives is keen or languid. But
                        there are also the æsthetic and moral faculties which are essentially
                        selecting, preferring, and which arrange all things in a long scale whose
                        bottom means abhorrence or contempt, and whose top the fervidest love and
                        admiration. These and these only are qualifying activities; the mere logical
                        intellect can only recognise and connect, it cannot judge. It is not, thanks
                        to the intellect, that anything, that “sex, gestation, nutriment,”
                        &c., can be made high or low according as it is, or is not, viewed
                        in connection with the scheme of creation; since the intellect knows neither
                        high nor low. If a subject can seem now gross and now pure, now trivial and
                        now dignified, it is because our qualifying functions, moral or æsthetic,
                        recognise the superior desirableness or rareness of the intellectual
                        perception as distinguished from the bodily one; because they have decided
                        that if there is enough and too much of the contemplation of some matters by
                        the brute, there is not enough of this
                        contemplation by the scientific man or the moralist. And who tells us that
                        the man of science or the moralist is nobler than the brute? Not the
                        instinct of mere causal relation, but the instinct which says: “I want more
                        of this, less of that”; the instinct which brings things into relation, not
                        with what Emerson worships as God, but with what Emerson is for ever
                        overlooking—Man.
                    The fact is that Emerson, in his process of forgetting everything that is not
                        mind, has forgotten human nature; in his supposed union with God he has left
                        Man in the lurch. His grave optimism is founded on a disregard for man’s
                        existence; when he is talking about man, with the marvellous intuition so
                        oddly at variance with his theoretic onesidedness, he is often pessimistic
                        enough.
                    Having perceived that all things proceed with logical correctness, and having
                        identified his own perception of cause and effect with the creative act,
                        Emerson has judged that all that is, is right. Thus in the universe where
                        God and Emerson—strange mystic dualism!—sit alone, willing and
                        understanding, understanding and willing. But introduce into this universe
                            man, and the aspect of matters changes. Those things which
                        affect Emerson and God as right—that is to say, as being—affect
                        man sometimes as agreeable, sometimes as disagreeable; sometimes as
                        beautiful, sometimes as atrocious. The current of intelligent approbation
                        between the Universal Mind and the Mind of Emerson is interrupted now and
                        then by a sudden movement of this new agent, man, standing, as it were,
                        half?way—movements meaning  joy,
                        admiration, pain, horror, despair. Why so? Simply because this new agent,
                            man, perceives things according to a new standard, the
                        standard of his own preservation and happiness. Right and wrong mean no
                        longer intelligible and unintelligible; they mean that which makes for man’s
                        interests or against them. An æsthetic and ethical standard evolves, by
                        which it is quite impossible to continue considering all things as equal,
                        merely because they are equally willed by God; that is to say, speaking
                        objectively and without mystical metaphor, because they can be equally
                        understood by Emerson. Instead of the cause, man asks after the effect; and
                        that things are and must be merely results, in certain cases, in rendering
                        things more odious in his eyes. Hence, with the appearance of man, the
                        scheme of pure optimism falls to the ground; and Emerson, systematic in one
                        matter, and obeying an unerring instinct, does all he can to keep man out of
                        the way; Man, be it understood, in so far as he is more than a mere fragment
                        of the Universal Mind, a mere molecule of causal perception. We hear,
                        therefore, of pain and sorrow only as we might hear of hot or cold; and of
                        justice and injustice rather as intellectual questions—virtually openness,
                        or the reverse, to conviction. Attempts at reform—that is to say, at
                        diminishing or equalising the human burden of woes—are treated as
                        intellectual experiments, movements interesting in their symmetrical
                        equilibrium with other movements. All is quite regular and lucid, hence
                        right and noble; and thus a great lid of intellectual optimism descends to
                        silence the unrest and dissatisfaction of man.
                
                
                
                    III
                    The Nemesis comes. Its name is Unreality, and this should have
                        been the title, and not Experience, of Emerson’s most wonderful
                        essay. The punishment, or rather (since I do not, like Emerson, believe in a
                        neatly adjusting Providence) the inevitable result of reducing all things to
                        their merely intellectual aspect, is that, ever and anon, the man who has so
                        reduced them will awake to the sense of reduction to nothingness. For
                        intellectual relations exist only in our thought. This is merely a mode of
                        grouping, which we apply to them without affecting their actual existence;
                        and hence it is that the man who shall have viewed things merely in such
                        relations must, sooner or later, feel the lack of reality. For Emerson, when
                        Emerson dogmatises, the individual is nothing, the type everything; and
                        similarly, the separate, sensible moment, yesterday, to?morrow, to?day, is
                        nothing, and the balance struck between them is the important. Thus optimism
                        is saved; injustice and pain are lost to sight in a disproportionate
                        abstraction. But reality recoups itself; for in reality there happens to
                        exist only the individual, the moment existing independent and outside
                        ourselves. And so, in the intervals of speculation, when the man re?becomes
                        a man and compares his emotions with those of his neighbours, Emerson
                        discovers that in his search for reality in thought he has lost it in fact.
                        A passage in that essay on Experience reads curiously like the confession of
                        some great neoplatonician thaumaturge returning to  earth after making himself an abstract creature,
                        and finding that all things elude his clutch:
                    “What opium is instilled into all disaster! It shows formidable as we
                        approach it, but there is at last no rough and rasping friction, but the
                        most slippery, sliding surfaces. We fall soft on a thought.... There are
                        moods in which we court suffering, in the hope that there, at least, we
                        shall find reality, strange peaks and edges of truth. But it turns out to be
                        scene?painting and counterfeit. The only thing grief has taught me is to
                        know how shallow it is. That, like all the rest, plays about the surface,
                        and never introduces me into the reality, for contact with which we would
                        even pay the costly price of sons and lovers.”
                    Such a sense of unreality must come to all of us at certain times of our
                        spiritual life, particularly during the years when we slowly replace with
                        the experience of ourselves the borrowed or ready?made notions of life which
                        had to do duty in our youth. But it is a phase; and in learning that all
                        things are evanescent, a healthy human being learns also that this condition
                        of soul is the most evanescent itself: a state of trance from which the
                        least rough shock or warm breath will rouse us. But Emerson would have us
                        think that this condition of semi?paralysis in all save the logical faculty
                        is the normal and permanent matter; probably because he is taking for
                        granted the possibility of extirpating from our natures everything besides
                        this merely logical perception. It is grotesque, and in a measure pathetic,
                        to read after this Emerson’s denunciation of the fatalism involved in a
                        materialistic explanation of the mind’s
                        peculiarities—” given such an embryo, such a history must follow. On
                            this platform one lives in a sty of sensualism and would soon come to
                            suicide.” Yet what suicide could be compared to the courting of
                        pain and loss of the beloved for the sake of the rough and rasping friction
                        of reality? And in another passage we are led to question whether, as in the
                        case of Quietism, the transcendental platform might not easily be
                        transformed into a sty of sensualism as bad as any which
                        Emerson could attribute to materialistic influence. “Saints are sad, because
                        they behold sin (even when they speculate) from the point of view of the
                        conscience, and not of the intellect—a confusion of thought. Sin, seen from
                        the thought, is a diminution or loss; seen from the conscience or will, it
                        is pravity or bad. The intellect names it shade, absence of
                        light, and no essence. The conscience must feel it as essence, essential
                        evil ....” For whence should come conscience, this odd Puritan
                        interloper, in a world which is full, every nook and cranny, of the
                        universal creative essence, of the Supreme Cause and Effect, knowing neither
                        good nor evil—in a world full of what Emerson calls God, and void, utterly
                        void, of the sentient and suffering individual, concrete man? But Emerson
                        is, fortunately, no real systematic thinker, and is, essentially, a Puritan,
                        full of the sound morality of Mosaic law, and morality formulating as God’s
                        will the practical interests of man. So we hear no more about the reasons
                        which allow philosophers to differ from saints in not looking sadly at evil.
                        And, on the contrary, among all the qualities metamorphosed into
                            essences, and all the adjectives transfigured and
                            enthroned as metaphysical
                        entities, each with its crown of stars or of city walls, its attributes in
                        hand and under foot—we find, foremost truthfulness, chastity and justice.
                        Nay, by one of those bold but adorable contradictions which save the soul of
                        transcendentalists and mystics from the hell of indifference—we are
                        especially informed, in the curious essay called the Over Soul,
                        that the soul of man, that inlet of the universal mind, is filled with the
                        tide of the universe’s divine life more particularly when it perceives
                        justice or conceives heroism.
                    This mysticism, this determination to reduce all things to intellect, this
                        violent clutching at the cause behind phenomena, gives Emerson, like Ruskin,
                        a certain mediæval character, not usually to be met nowadays, save among
                        theological writers: he is related to the Abbot Joachim, to Abelard, to the
                        compilers of herbals and bestiaries; he has a quaint look, quaint and
                        delightful, of being a belated brother of Sir Thomas Browne or Burton of the
                            Anatomy. Montaigne (the man he so ardently admires) might
                        as well never have existed for him; and the other masters of inductive
                        thought—Locke, Voltaire, Hume, the eighteenth century with its strong level
                        vision, its materialisation of Nature, its enthroning of man—have passed
                        without affecting him. Modern science he distinctly turns away from; he has
                        a hankering after visionaries and allegorical expounders, even the
                        trashiest. The names of Jacob Boehm and of Swedenborg are perpetually
                        returning to him; he believes Jesus to have been a mortal man, but he might
                        easily grant some transcendant quality to Apollonius of Tyana. He tends to
                        find a symbol in everything, a mysterious
                        “Open, sesame!” He cannot be satisfied with a thing meaning only its poor
                        self, serving its obvious purpose. Every analogy is to him an actual causal
                        connection, every metaphor which his fancy perceives a sort of sign?manual
                        of God. He has, to the highest degree, the symbolic superstition. For him
                        the world exists by virtue of certain formulas, which are not so much
                        shorthand generalisations of man as actual creative spells of God: system,
                        dualism, the principle of opposites and compensation, and sex. There must be
                        a mysterious equilibrium everywhere—an evil for every good, a good for every
                        evil, an answer for every question, a satisfaction for every craving, a loss
                        for every gain, a bitter for every sweet, a female for every male. And do
                        what you will you cannot alter things, since, by such a mysterious law, as
                        matter displaced on one side must reappear on the other, so also the
                        happiness given to Tom must be taken from Harry. That the nature of one
                        thing or case being different from that of another there will be a
                        corresponding difference of rule and action, never occurs to Emerson. He
                        strips all things into a sort of unqualified, non?existent nakedness, and
                        then calls it unity and identity.
                    And yet, despite all this, Emerson remains one of the thinkers who can do
                        most for us moderns; whose teachings, if put into practice, could carry us
                        through the greatest number of temptations and dangers. It is with Emerson’s
                        writings as with the sacred books of ancient times: we must separate what is
                        due to imperfect knowledge, to superstitious habits of mind, and
                        consequently mischievous, or worthless and deci? duous, from that which is due to some great
                        intuition of truth, some special energy of soul, such as is given to
                        exceptional races, or moments or individuals—immortal gifts whose usefulness
                        will never suffer a change. And, as we find in all such writings, bibles of
                        all nations, sacred and profane, so also in Emerson this worthless,
                        changing, deciduous part has received its excessive importance from the very
                        vital and immortal part which it has served to deface; thus in Plato and St.
                        Paul, the “Imitation of Christ;” and, among the prophets of to?day, in
                        Ruskin and Tolstoi.
                    The vital, vitalising intuition in Emerson is a dualism, closely connected:
                        the intuition of the worthlessness of unreality for our happiness and
                        progress; and the intuition of the supreme power, for our happiness and
                        progress, of that portion which we call soul. Such intuitions are rarely
                        new. Antiquity knew these of Emerson, as India knew those of Christ and his
                        mediæval followers; but they are born afresh, as it were, with new vigour
                        and efficacy, in a new mind; and, at each new incarnation they are obliged,
                        alas, to assume the foolish costume and habits—nay, the very maladies—which
                        belong to thought at the moment of the new birth. In the case of Emerson,
                        the intuition of the supreme value of reality, and of the soul’s most
                        marvellous powers of expansion and adaptation, of its unique capacity for
                        embracing all things in the acts of comprehension, imagination, and
                        sympathy—these vital thoughts were defined, hampered and compressed, by a
                        cheap transcendentalism: the metaphysics of Germany adulterated by the
                        shoddy science, the cheap mysticism of America. And  the divine strength of his mind may seem, at
                        first sight, to have been employed merely in carrying the weight, in filling
                        up the forms, of the threadbare garments of Dr. Faust, and the tinsel
                        garments of some less philosophic wizard. Let us strip them off; and we
                        shall see the Titan beneath.
                    We have seen how Emerson has got himself a pocket religion by making the
                        human soul consubstantial and co?extensive with God, and the life of the
                        soul identical with the perception of cause and effect, so that, while
                        Jehovah says, “I Am,” Emerson fulfils his spiritual duties by repeating, in
                        various forms of words, “Thou art.” Also, how, in his dread of materialism
                        and hedonism, he has attempted to measure phenomena of sensation, emotion,
                        and æsthetic perception by a mechanism for registering cause and effect
                        which is as unfit to register their quality as a pair of scales is unfit to
                        measure the degree of heat, or a barometer the intensity of the colour blue.
                        Similarly, we shall find that the same spiritualistic bias has led Emerson
                        to repeat, very often, the stale Stoical sayings of the self?sufficingness
                        of the mind, the unimportance of circumstance, the indifference to momentary
                        pain and pleasure.
                    The soul, indeed, can be trained to considerable indifference: it can be
                        rendered obtuse to pain and pleasure, to impressions and affections;
                        religious asceticism has always boasted, in the words of Molière’s Orgon:
                        “Et je verrais mourir frère, enfans, mère et femme, que je m’en soucierais
                        tout comme de cela!”
                    But such indifference means, not uniting ourself closer with Nature and the
                        Infinite, but cutting loose from them on
                        one whole side. The human creature, no longer enjoying, no longer
                        sympathising, no longer loving, would hold on to the universe only by his
                        reason. The wind would blow, trees rustle, waters murmur, hills be blue and
                        fields green, and people around be beautiful, brilliant or kind, sorrowing
                        or clinging, without his being any the wiser. Nay, the wiser, if it be
                        wisdom merely to know the necessities and sequences of things without
                        knowing the things themselves; but neither the happier nor the more
                        conducive to others’ happiness. It would be good practice for dying, as,
                        indeed, Roman Stoicism was the school where men learned to escape from
                        tyranny by suicide of body and soul. Such Stoicism is the folly of
                        philosophers, the cowardice of heroes, the blasphemy of those who, believing
                        in gods, reject their good gifts for fear of their bad; it is afraid of the
                        universe, and tries to look at it, as Perseus at the head of Medusa, only in
                        the reflected image. This excess of intellectualism, thinking to limit all
                        wants to those of the logical intellect, would defeat its own end; for what
                        should the intellect contemplate and discuss, if all were reduced to
                        abstractions, if things existed only as ideas, if the moment, the
                        individual, the sensation, the emotion, ceased to be?
                
                
                    IV
                    Such dogmas as these cannot form the basis of Emerson’s teachings, much as he
                        tries to deduce the one from the other, any more than the dogmas of
                        celestial caprice and barbarity, of the Fall, the bloody  Atonement and eternal Hell could be the rational
                        foundation for the religion of mercy and love of Francis of Assisi. There
                        is, fortunately for the world, a higher logic, guessing at the relations
                        between dogmas and facts, which works divine havoc in the smaller logic
                        connecting one theory with another; the soul frees itself from the tyranny
                        of lies by stealthy self?contradiction. The logical consequences of
                        Emerson’s intellectual pantheism would be to deny (what man, according to
                        the Hebrews, never learned from the great I Am) the distinction of good and
                        evil; to accept only the bare fact of existence, of emanation from the
                        All?powerful. Why, therefore, preach heroism and the search for truth? Why
                        struggle against unreality, hypocrisy, appearances? Why denounce the waste
                        of effort, the dealing in words, supineness, vanity, and all the tissues of
                            wine and of dreams?
                    In reality because, however unconsciously to himself, Emerson was judging
                        them worthless by the purely human instinct of affinity for certain
                        qualities, and repulsion for certain others, by the purely utilitarian
                        intuition of what is desirable or undesirable for man and man’s race. And
                        because the main energy of his mind, his originality and inspiration,
                        consisted in an instinctive craving, despite the mere intellectual
                        satisfaction in cause and effect, after a life more large, more varied, more
                        transferable from object to object, from mind to mind: a true life of the
                        soul, which includes the life of the sensations and emotions, which is based
                        on realities, and which implies happiness.
                    For it is this which renders Emerson’s writings so efficacious in one’s life,
                        so charged with vital principle;  this
                        which, entering into our torpid thought, fertilises it, makes it expand,
                        alter, and bear fruit. No writer can have a greater influence in certain
                        lives, yet no writer, surely, was ever more chary of criticisms and rules of
                        conduct, of what, in most cases, makes the moralist. Indeed you might
                        sometimes think he had never lived, never felt, made choice, acted, nay
                        existed among real individuals (for all the passionate hints of the chapters
                        on love and on friendship) but only among such abstractions of mankind as
                        his own representative men; among ideals of human beings not to be touched,
                        but to be criticised. The human efficacy of Emerson’s teachings lies in his
                        constant insistence upon the necessity of widening existence by increased
                        contact with reality on all sides, and of such reality being apprehended by
                        the mind, the sympathies, the imagination, as well as by the senses. For the
                        narrowest life is the one into which there enter the fewest ideas—the
                        animal’s, the child’s, the savage’s life of the mere sensation, the mere
                        moment; and the next narrowest is the base man’s life of the mere ego, the
                        appetites of to?day projected into to?morrow, the appetites of others
                        employed to gratify his own. Unselfishness is a widening of ourselves by
                        giving equal rank to the pleasures and rights of others—that is to say, to
                        what is after all an intellectual conception, an idea to us, not a thing we
                        can taste or touch. Justice, mercy, truth?those great abstractions covering
                        the greater happiness of the greater number, and to which nobler men and
                        women must sacrifice good for themselves and their neighbours—justice,
                        mercy, truth, are more than ever intellectual existences, transcending our
                        sensation and experience. And the logical,
                        the æsthetic appreciations which unite us to the world beyond man, which add
                        to our own the life we understand in all phenomena, the life which we love
                        in some of them, are still more obviously an enlarging of ourselves through
                        the enlarging of our mind. For the mind embraces all, while the body can
                        hold but little. Hence a constant regard for our possibilities from the
                        intellectual standpoint, a constant preference of the life of the soul, life
                        in all times and places, over the life, limited by moment and place, of the
                        body; an insistence upon the life which unites us to all things instead of
                        enclosing us within ourselves. Such a view of existence must be to the
                        highest degree vitalising and fruitful. This would not be the case were
                        Emerson the mere ordinary intellectual man, submitting to the intellect only
                        the things which are obviously of the intellect, and leaving to the
                        appetites, to the emotions, to the vanities all the rest. For Emerson gives
                        unto Cæsar only the copper penny, and claims for God the kingdom of the
                        earth. Emerson asks not what the mind can make of books, art, and its other
                        notorious belongings; but what the mind can make of life as a whole: of
                        love, friendship, practical efforts, political struggles, domestic
                        arrangements—of everything. To him the real life is that of the soul: the
                        life, so to speak, at headquarters, to which all other subordinate lives do
                        but bring their necessary tribute of well?being, of experience, of
                        sensation, of facts. He knows that there is in the noblest creatures a sort
                        of uppermost consciousness to which all lower ones lead; which is as
                        homogeneous as they are heterogeneous, as persistent as they are fleet? ing; in which our sensations, actions,
                        affections are multiplied tenfold by those of other men, of other times and
                        places; and where, in an endless chain of pattern, everything is connected
                        with something else, everything transmuted into something different.
                        Therefore all the things which constitute our ordinary daily consciousness,
                        Emerson examines; asking of what use they may be in this great uppermost
                        consciousness or existence; accepting and rejecting in accordance with this
                        standard. Hence he is characterised and takes rank of nobility, mainly by a
                        constant scrutinising, unflinching elimination of unrealities, of activities
                        and habits which bring only wear and tear and produce neither truth nor good
                        nor beauty. A great part of his philosophy consists in the separation of
                        futile efforts from fruitful; another, in showing how much more we may gain
                        by letting things act for us than by squirming our souls out in unnecessary
                        action. He teaches that it is not by the books which we read, the men whom
                        we speak to, the stones and tree?trunks which we pull about, that we are
                        increasing our life, still less by the money we amass or the complications
                        we establish; but only by as much of the books as we understand, of the men
                        as we love, of the talk as we wisely consider, of the materialities we
                        combine to give us health, more peace, and more power of being realities. In
                        fact, it is only by as much as is vital and fertilised in our life that our
                        life is improved. This great purveyor of realities wherewith to nourish our
                        highest life is for ever warning us against the adulteration of things
                        intellectual and moral, teaching us to separate the stones from the bread,
                        to  throw away the husks and the rind. He
                        is no hater of tradition, even of convention; because he recognises that
                        both of them may contain a portion of life. But once that life has left the
                        tradition and convention he has no patience but sweeps them away, be they
                        called by the solemnest names of virtue and honour. Hence his deep sympathy,
                        idealist and transcendentalist as he is, despiser of the gross and lover of
                        the spiritual, with the terre à terre
                        scepticism of Montaigne; for that scepticism is one of the most potent
                        agents for the removal of rubbishy spurious fact and spurious thought. Hence
                        his admiration also for the coarse practicality of Napoleon, because that
                        also means reality, real energy, sweeping away the unreal, the inert.
                    Those who should deliberately follow Emerson’s counsels, omitting from their
                        lives not merely what he directly advises should be omitted, but also what
                        his whole system logically leads us to reject, would be surprised to find
                        how much space they had left themselves, how much energy for the real life,
                        the life of enjoyment and utility. For half of our life is spent, if not in
                        struggling with trash, with the unreality others have burdened us with, as
                        education, so called, religion, sociabilities, false necessities and ideals;
                        then in actually doing the unreal: reading books we do not understand,
                        seeing people we do not like, doing acts which lead to nothing, or to the
                        reverse of their intention. All great teaching, of the sort which is, so to
                        say, prophetic and sacred, helps us to a wider life in other men, other
                        fields and times. Half of it helps us to do so by trying to understand and
                        love others; the other half, and Emerson’s teaching is among it, by bidding us understand and reduce to
                        reasonableness ourselves. This vital energy in Emerson’s teaching is, I
                        think, given free play only if we liberate it from notions which belonged
                        not to Emerson’s mind, but to his intellectual surroundings. His
                        transcendentalism, horrified at science and despising utility, arises, in
                        great measure, from the old metaphysical and theological habit of regarding
                        the soul as a ready?made, separate entity, come, Heaven knows whence,
                        utterly unconnected with the things among which it alights, and struggling
                        perpetually to be rid of them and return somehow to its unknown place of
                        origin. Had Emerson suspected, as we have reason to suspect, that the soul
                        is born of the soil, its fibre the fibre of every plant and animal, its
                        breath the breath of every wind, its shape the space left vacant by other
                        shapes, he would not have been obliged to arrange a purely intellectual
                        transcendental habitation for this supposed exile from another sphere. And
                        his intuition of a possible universal life would have been strengthened, not
                        damaged, by the knowledge that our soul is moulded into its form—nay, takes
                        its very quality, from surrounding circumstances; and the probability,
                        therefore, that between the soul and its surroundings there will be a
                        growing relation and harmony, as of product and producer, concave and
                        convex.
                
            
            
            
                DETERIORATION OF SOUL
                
                DETERIORATION OF SOUL
                
                    “THE author of the now famous volumes on Degeneracyis
                        himself a Degenerate”; we have all of us heard, and nearly all of us passed,
                        that obvious criticism on Max Nordau. Eccentricity, Suspiciousness of Evil,
                        Egotism, Idées Fixes, Obsession by the
                        Thought of Impurity, Lack of Human Sympathy, Confusion of Categories,
                        Unbridled Violence of Hatred, Indiscriminate Destructiveness; he has taught
                        us to recognise all these as the stigmata of degeneracy, and we
                        have recognised them all in himself. As a result, and following his own
                        method towards every contemporary writer, from Tolstoi to Zola, from Ruskin
                        to Ibsen, and from Whitman to Rossetti, we may be tempted to destroy Max
                        Nordau’s books as pestilent rubbish, and forget his theories as insane
                        ravings. But it is better that Nordau’s absurdities and furies should serve
                        rather as a deterrent than an example; that our abhorrence of his ways
                        should teach the discrimination and justice of which he is incapable; and,
                        if we wish to be more reasonable than he, that we should examine and profit
                        by what reasonableness there may be even in him.
                    As regards myself, I find that Nordau’s book has inspired me with a salutary
                        terror, not merely of De? generacy (though
                        he is right in teaching us to be afraid of that), but of the deterioration
                        of the soul’s faculties and habits, which is the inevitable result of all
                        intellectual injustice. And it is because Nordau himself is so striking an
                        example of such deterioration, that I am anxious to discuss the chief facts
                        and conclusions of his book, and to suggest certain other facts and
                        conclusions, which, taken together, may make us appreciate the dangers we
                        all run, if not of mental and moral degeneracy, at all events of mental and
                        moral debasement.
                
                
                    I
                    The new school of intellectual and moral pathology, besides assigning a
                        physiological reason to a large amount of moral and mental imperfection, has
                        put forward a hypothesis, according to which the immoral or idiotic person
                        of mature age and modern times is the equivalent, through arrested growth or
                        atavism, of the child or of the normal adult of more barbarous periods. This
                        hypothesis is probably very crude on the biological plane, but it seems
                        uncommonly correct and exceedingly suggestive on the moral one. Spiritual
                        imperfection may be due, as I propose showing, to causes other than bodily;
                        and the criminal or anti?social person need not resemble in other points
                        either a child or a savage. But the pathological psychologists, from
                        Maudsley and Moreau to Lombroso and Nordau, have done excellent service in
                        pointing out that criminal instincts and anti?social behaviour are closely
                        connected  with disease, immaturity or
                        barbarism; and that, contrary to the picturesque views of decadent poets and
                        of the readers of police reports, there is nothing either refined or heroic,
                        or in fact anything save excessively vulgar, in uncleanness and
                        bloodthirstiness. It is very good for all of us, especially in our salad
                        days, to learn that as regards evil, rarity does not constitute distinction;
                        that perverted instincts are universal among gaol?birds and maniacs; that
                        insensibility to the feelings of others is a frequent forerunner of
                        imbecility, and excessive egotism a common result of visceral disturbances.
                        Such coincidences, even where merely coincidences, are due to a great
                        practical truth, which the school of moral pathology has put in the clearest
                        light, to wit: that all instincts or forms of instinct detrimental to the
                        social good, are, in a sense, deciduous and sterile; that the world is
                        perfectly right in considering weakness of will, unchastity of thought and
                        word, egotism and vanity as a contagious danger to the community; that
                        religion and philosophy have been clairvoyant in announcing that human
                        liberty can be attained only by controlling desire and enlarging sympathy;
                        that, in short, the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth will be the Kingdom of the
                        Spirit.
                    This much has been formulated, made clear through analysis and example, by
                        the new science of the soul’s death and disease; the sober works of
                        Maudsley, of Ribot, Richer, and of Janet, the extravagant though sometimes
                        luminous books of Lombroso, particularly the two volumes of Nordau, are full
                        of invaluable practical suggestiveness. Unluckily the general usefulness  of the science has been diminished, it
                        seems to me, by the tendency of the more sober among mental pathologists to
                        limit their observations and theories to cases of thorough?paced madness,
                        perversity, imbecility, or criminality; and the practical lessons have been
                        largely neutralised by the eccentric hypothesis of Lombroso and Nordau, who
                        have separated spiritual degeneracy from spiritual deterioration, and
                        confined it to well?defined categories of individuals. For Professor
                        Lombroso, as everyone is aware, has developed into an elaborate system the
                        notion of some of the earlier students of mental pathology, that special
                        abilities are due to a disturbance of the normal psychic balance, and are
                        therefore accompanied by intellectual or moral unsoundness; in other words
                        that talent is a morbid production like madness or criminality, accompanied
                        invariably by some of their stigmata, and different from either only by the
                        accident of being, on the whole, more useful than detrimental to the
                        community. And Professor Nordau, while explicitly rejecting Lombroso’s
                        theory of the affinity between talent, madness, and criminality, has yet put
                        forward the notion, and illustrated it by endless example and analysis, that
                        during the last forty years there has been degeneracy invariably manifested
                        among literary, artistic, and philosophic workers; while, during this
                        period, intellectual and moral health has become the exclusive property of
                        men of science and of mediocrities.
                    These theories, whether, as with Lombroso, they accept the man of talent as a
                        fortunate nuisance; or, as with Nordau, reject him (when a contemporary) as
                        a dangerous attraction, these theories are not  merely scientifically questionable, but also (and
                        this is what I wish to deal with) practically dangerous, because they seem
                        to limit spiritual degeneracy to exceptionally inferior or exceptionally
                        superior categories of individuals, and to reassure, quite unreasonably, the
                        mediocre mass of mankind. According to them the immense majority need never
                        take any thought for its psychic healthiness; all it need do is to follow
                        its instincts, and either to profit as much (according to Lombroso) or to
                        suffer as little (according to Nordau) as it possibly can by the useful or
                        noxious peculiarities of degenerates. Such are the practical conclusions
                        derivable from the too exclusive attention given by even the soberer mental
                        pathologists to criminals and lunatics; still more from the identification
                        by Lombroso and Nordau, of genius and degeneracy.
                    But fortunately these one?sided views, these eccentric hypotheses, have been
                        illustrated by an enormous array of facts, and these facts, whether brought
                        forward by Lombroso or Nordau, whether exhibited in great scientific
                        handbooks like those of Maudsley and Ribot, or huddled together in shilling
                        dreadfuls like Cuiller’s Frontières de la Folie, these facts
                        carry their own suggestion, to wit, that the stigmata of spiritual
                        degeneracy are confined neither to criminals, lunatics, nor persons of
                        unusual ability; and that the average man, the dull and decent Philistine,
                        is equally in danger of becoming an obstacle to human improvement, a centre
                        of moral and intellectual deterioration.
                    Apart from the suspicion that celebrities may have been assimilated to
                        criminals and lunatics, because like them they have become public property,
                        and, therefore, the corpus vile for pathological examination and
                        demonstration—the study of the facts accumulated by mental pathologists,
                        even the facts brought forward to prove the very reverse by Lombroso and
                        Nordau, must suggest very strange thoughts to any honest and intelligent,
                        although obscure and respectable, reader. The anecdotes snipped out of
                        biographical dictionaries by Lombroso, and the analysis of symptoms
                        implacably carried out by Nordau, must remind the honest Philistine of other
                        biographical details, of other strings of peculiarities, with which he has
                        not become acquainted in books; they must become connected and compared in
                        his memory with stories, words, gestures, expressions of face, states of
                        feeling, which have never fallen, which can never fall, into the hands of
                        men of science. Little by little, many things which, on the printed page,
                        expressed in those barbarous technical terms, had affected the reader only
                        as so much far?fetched specialism, assume an uncomfortable air of
                        familiarity; until at last, if he have courage to put two and two together,
                        he must be startled, perhaps overcome, by the recognition that his
                        neighbours, friends, family, himself, resemble Lombroso’s and Nordau’s
                        degenerates in other things than genius.
                    I cast no doubts on the existence of thorough?paced degenerates, some in
                        prisons, some in asylums, some walking abroad, with or without talents, and
                        more often without than with; all scientific evidence proves that they are
                        common, and that many of them are hopelessly incurable and through and
                        through diseased. But when scientific evidence is accumulated in even
                        greater bulk, is put before us irrespective of any  special hypothesis like Lombroso’s or Nordau’s,
                        and when it is, moreover, brought into relation with our previous experience
                        of life and of men, we should learn, I think, that it is dangerous to draw a
                        hard?and?fast line between ourselves and any of our fellow creatures, even
                        when we may be obliged, for sheer self?defence, to shut some of them up and
                        chastise them. To make such a crude distinction does as much harm to us, who
                        account ourselves sane, as to these whom we brand and pen up together as
                        degenerate. For it not only vitiates our sense of likeness and unlikeness,
                        diminishes our sympathy and justice, and wastes all that is sane and
                        profitable, even in unsound and noxious creatures; but it makes light of
                        that knowledge of our present imperfection, of our possible deterioration
                        and possible improvement, which should result from all study of the soul and
                        the soul’s diseases and dangers.
                
                
                    II
                    Degeneracy: I would willingly get rid of this detestable word,
                        leave it to mad doctors or criminalogists; and, indeed,
                            degeneracy, save as a cause, ought to be replaced in our
                        thought by imperfection, since that alone is of practical
                        consequence. But, in the study of this imperfection, in the
                        search for its causes, we must come, first and foremost, to something which,
                        for want of a better word, we must needs call degeneracy; to the result, in
                        a minor degree, of processes which lead, on a larger scale, to disease,
                        madness, sterility, and death. In the continuous and arduous adaptation of mankind to its
                        surroundings, there is, apparently, something which stands to the gradual
                        improvement as the friction of a machine stands to its movements: the
                        machinery is constantly being repaired, the friction is constantly being
                        diminished, but so far it exists, and it still represents, though in ever
                        smaller degree, an impediment and a partial destruction. This kind of
                        friction is what specialists call degeneracy. It is a form of
                        imperfection; it is the result of imperfection, and it results in
                        imperfection. We may roughly divide it into two kinds, sociological and
                        biological; the first is left unconsidered by Lombroso and Nordau; the
                        second is limited, or apparently limited, to separate categories of persons.
                        In this disregard of sociological deterioration, in this limitation of
                        biological deterioration, lies to my mind the fundamental mistake of both
                        Lombroso and Nordau, a mistake which is rectified by the very facts adduced
                        in support of their one?sided views.
                    The kind of deterioration which I have called sociological may be illustrated
                        presently by an analysis of some of Nordau’s own failings, their probable
                        cause and their possible results. The other, the biological, by which I mean
                        the deterioration accompanied by physical causes or co?results, forms the
                        subject of Nordau’s two volumes, and requires, I think, to be recognised as
                        obtaining, not merely in the individuals stigmatised as degenerates, but in
                        the whole of mankind of which they are, after all, but a production.
                    For the whole of mankind may be partially unsound, although the average of
                        mankind may be  absolutely sound. The
                        average or abstract totality of mankind is probably sound,
                        because the imperfections of adaptation, the inability to meet the
                        requirements of life, the hereditary, individual, or acquired biological
                        taints are undoubtedly slight in most individuals (otherwise the individual,
                        let alone the race, would not be there), and because the unsound portion of
                        one individual is worked for and protected by the sound portions of other
                        individuals; nay, because in every individual, save the lunatic, the
                        incurable or the criminal, the sound qualities supply the deficiencies of
                        the unsound. But the individuals composing mankind are probably all, or
                        nearly all, imperfect or liable to become imperfect in some detail,
                        infinitesimal, or perceptible, of their organism; were this not the case the
                        existence of thorough?paced degeneracy, as of downright physical disease,
                        would scarcely be conceivable; and the contagion of degeneracy, as well as
                        the contagion of disease, would constitute no danger. Why should this be?
                        The reason seems to me very simple: So far as we know the world’s history or
                        present condition, we cannot be certain of any human creature living in
                        circumstances, material or social, to which he was, or is, perfectly
                        adjusted; nay, leading a life which was not, in one way or another, too
                        difficult for his organism, what we call, either on the bodily or the
                        spiritual plane, unwholesome; and this imperfection of relations between the
                        individual and his mode of existence would necessarily prevent his leaving
                        behind him physical or spiritual off?spring, human bodies, souls, habits,
                        notions, which were otherwise than 
                        imperfect also; imperfection dwindling for ever, but present always, and
                        always liable to momentary increase. There is probably no one who inherits
                        an absolutely flawless bodily constitution, or who leads a perfectly healthy
                        bodily life; but the soul is as delicate as the body, and the soul’s life as
                        difficult to adjust;nay, the soul’s health has more chances against it,
                        since it depends in the first instance on the health of the body. Yet there
                        are very few persons who are as thoughtful for their soul and its organs, as
                        for their teeth, hair, eyes, lungs, or digestion; and most of us move
                        recklessly among contagions, and submit to strains in the spiritual order,
                        such as few of us would expose ourselves to in the bodily. Meanwhile the
                        spiritual reacts on the bodily and the bodily on the spiritual. Our thoughts
                        and feelings are vitiated by the imperfection of our bodily functions; but
                        this imperfection of our bodily functions is nine times out of ten the
                        result of some spiritual imperfection, some lack of forethought,
                        self?control, or comprehension in ourselves or our parents. Thus, even with
                        regard to material well?being, there is no fact more important than that of
                        our constant danger of intellectual and moral deterioration.
                
                
                    III
                    It is the chief merit of Nordau’s book that his facts and analyses are likely
                        to bring home this danger to the reader, to suggest very shrewd personal
                        suspicions and comparisons to everybody. And it is the chief fault of Nordau’s book (for who cares for his
                        literary and artistic criticisms?) that his mania for limiting degeneracy to
                        the second half of the nineteenth century and to the writers, artists and
                        non?scientific thinkers thereof, confines the causes of degeneracy to merely
                        physiological disturbances, and diverts the attention from what I should
                        call sociological causes of deterioration, namely, the undue pressure on the
                        individual of social habits, routines, and institutions. Such sociological
                        straining and warping of the soul has, of course, always existed, and
                        presumably more in the barbarous Past than in the only semibarbarous
                        Present. Now, as Professor Nordau wishes to persuade us that the spiritual
                        degeneracy of our age is unique and unprecedented, he has not only to close
                        his eyes to all the unwholesomeness which previous centuries displayed in
                        their literature, or hid or half?hid in their religious and social habits;
                        but also to refuse to discuss any causes of unwholesomeness which other
                        centuries have evidently shared with our own. Since, however, we have
                        fortunately no theory to blind us, we may leave Professor Nordau to
                        expatiate on the detrimental effects on nineteenth?century nerves of
                        railways and newspapers, telegraphs and telephones, large towns and colossal
                        discoveries, rapid amassing of fortunes and rapid altering of beliefs; and
                        let us look at a few of the totally different sort of causes which must
                        always have tended, apart from all physiological degeneracy, to deteriorate
                        a certain proportion of individual souls.
                    The individual soul, perhaps owing to its dependence on the individual body,
                        is rarely congenitally sound in every part;
                        and, even where no rudimentary morbidness can be detected, it is never
                        gifted with the very highest powers of every description; so that it is
                        forced, inevitably, to supply its deficiencies from the abundance of other
                        individual souls, from that stored?up abundance of all times and countries
                        which we call civilisation. Apart from this common fund, accumulated by the
                        united efforts of all men, by the special efforts of special men, and by the
                        almost mechanical action of the great principle of “Compound for sins you
                        have a mind to by damning those you’re not inclined to”—apart from
                        civilisation, there is not much logic, patience, self?restraint, gentleness
                        or purity in the isolated individual; certainly not enough to make him
                        endurable, let alone useful. Separate the individual, even the individual
                        having no spiritual taint analogous to consumption or gout, isolate him from
                        the social surroundings, the principles and prejudices, the fortunate
                        compromises due to the rivalry of so much barbarism and wrongheadedness, set
                        him opposite something quite new, or something about which he may talk or
                        act quite freely; and note the brute’s acts and words! Nay, note the man
                        when he has a class or nation to back him; and listen, for instance, to the
                        logic, the humane speech of the individual considered as Conservative, or
                        Socialist, or Protestant, or Catholic, or Atheist! Egotism,
                            megalomania? Why they are kept down in the normal individual only
                        by the tendency to egotism and megalomania of his neighbours; if small
                        children are egotists and megalomaniacs, it is because they have been
                        protected, so far, from other children. For the rest, egotism and megalomania are perpetually
                        bursting out on all sides. Listen to the ordinary, intelligent, educated
                        man, to the superior professional man even, when off his profession. Is not
                        his cocksureness about things outside his own walk, his contempt of arts and
                        modes of life unlike his own, his interest in his house,
                            his wine, his horse, his
                        business, very nearly maniacal? Listen, on the other hand, to nations (for
                        nations are unrestrained by shame before each other, and consider such
                        restraint as mean?spirited) are they not maniacs? and is not the respective
                            national pride of the Englishman, Frenchman, German,
                        Italian, the purest megalomania in guise of patriotism? Is not every nation,
                        in its hopes and claims, its boasting and blustering, no better than King
                        Picrochole awaiting the Coming of the Coqcigrues?
                    If, then, classes, professions, nationalities, lose their attributes of
                        logic, justice, and gentleness, nay, of crassest good sense, whenever they
                        are isolated from other professions, classes, nationalities, or set up in
                        mere hostility opposite to them, how much more will not be lost by the poor
                        individual, when, by some new or faulty adjustment, he is isolated from his
                        fellow individuals, set up as their enemy or their leader? These things may
                        be largely inevitable, but they are atrociously sad, and we may well stop to
                        consider some instances thereof. Has neither Lombroso nor Nordau, glibly
                        analysing the degeneracy of men of talent, ever considered what men
                            not of talent would become if subjected to years of
                        neglect, injustice, outrage, and then, perhaps, to years of most fulsome
                        adulation? For, after all, that is what it comes to:  a process, not deliberate certainly, and for the
                        time being quite inevitable, by which mankind calls forth all the worst
                        qualities in those who are its benefactors, fosters their arrogance,
                        injustice, violence, and folly; turns them into fanatics (I had first
                        written lunatics) who tear and trample everything, and help the world in the
                        making of fresh fanatics. Who is most responsible for Wagner’s pamphlets,
                        for Zola’s Mes Haines, for all that most degenerate literature,
                        the literature of blind self?assertion? Nay, is not the most marvellous
                        production since Renaissance humanistic warfare, Whistler’s Gentle Art
                            of Making Enemies due to the astonishing criticisms of another
                        man of genius, of Ruskin, himself the victim of the absurd attacks on Turner
                        and pre?Raphaelitism? Alas, of the energies which we poor human beings can
                        so little afford to spare, how much do we not, by the fatality of stupidity
                        and injustice, waste in the detestable self?assertion and self?defence of
                        genius, in the production of more injustice and exaggeration, itself
                        fruitful of exaggeration and injustice!
                    But wrong adjustment between the individual and the mass, need not attain the
                        pitch of actual ill?treatment, in order to produce very decided
                        deterioration, what Nordau sees as degeneracy, of soul. All mental
                        productivity, like all material, tends to encumber us with obsolete plant
                        and rubbish. There is no system, no routine, no facilitation to learning or
                        doing any particular thing, which does not become more or less of a
                        nuisance, a mechanism for the spoiling of something. All trades,
                        professions, administrations—nay, schools of thought—show it us daily: a
                            man loses much of his elasticity of
                        mind by such means, although that loss is more than compensated, most often,
                        by the storage of results and the saving of time. But a man, as Emerson
                        says, is himself a method; every individual must pay for the advantage of
                        being one. And this becomes the case more and more markedly as the man’s
                        method is more complex, more special, more different from the method of
                        other men. As a mere question of time and opportunity, every special study
                        tends to exclude external influence and correction, to diminish the healthy
                        reaction and readjustment of all things, that is to say, to make the
                        specialist unconscious of the fine proportion between the world and his
                        work, his fellow?men and himself. Nay, all self?expression creates a
                        facility which easily turns to exaggeration, absurdity, self?caricature. Men
                        cannot perceive all facts and think all thoughts at once; developing their
                        own ideas, those ideas cease to be duly controlled by the thousand million
                        other ideas in the universe; one explanation covers everything, one fact
                        answers all questions, one kind of physic cures all ills; and we get very
                        near the region of fads and idées fixes.
                        This tendency is very much increased by the result of another insufficiency
                        of human nature: mankind is extremely limited, as yet, not merely in its
                        power of doing, and thinking, but in its power of sympathising. The desire
                        for prominence, for recognition, very often unjustly refused, pits men
                        against each other, while the inability or unwillingness to share material
                        or social advantages forces every member of the same profession into rivalry
                        with the other: hence a tendency, which pure devotion to truth or beauty can overcome only very slowly, a tendency to
                        regard one’s own contribution to science or art, as supplanting those of
                        one’s predecessors or neighbours; and a consequent loss of the faculty of
                        comparing facts and theories, of selecting and correcting, of judging
                        attainment impersonally and equitably; a very notable diminution in the
                        efficiency of the individual soul.
                    This phenomenon becomes most obvious when it is accentuated by that neglect
                        or persecution of which I have spoken as producing and reproducing such a
                        fine crop of apparent monomaniacs. The consciousness of exceptional talents,
                        especially when those talents are unnoticed or disputed by others, carries
                        combative natures out of the domain of good sense and decorum, the almost
                        automatic good sense and decorum of those who are comfortable; and a man of
                        parts requires to be an unusually good keeper of himself, since he soon
                        ceases to be the ward of the majority. The sense of being able to do what
                        most others cannot, needs to be corrected by an appreciation of what has to
                        be done and can be done only by others, such as is very rare as yet in our
                        half?grown humanity; and when there is no such corrective, the ego becomes isolated in his own eyes, and
                        assumes to himself an importance utterly out of proportion to the reality.
                        Hence suspicion, irreverence, animosity towards others; and that refusal to
                        unite one’s thoughts with the thoughts of other men, that refusal of what
                        might be called (most literally and worthily) the marriage of true
                            minds, which dooms so much of the world’s best talent to
                        sterility.
                
                
                
                    IV
                    Sterility; or at least production of rubbish, of something which is not
                        intellectually vital. For we do not sufficiently realise how small a share
                        of our spider’s web of thought, embracing and subdividing the universe, is
                        either really spun by ourselves or spun out of the stuff secreted by our own
                        mind; how much the thought of the individual requires to be helped out by a
                        common thought, or to draw from a common fund the sound material for its
                        web. Hence in all cases where certain kinds of thinking have been sporadic,
                        the thinkers of the particular kind must be thrown quite excessively on
                        their own resources, and must quickly exhaust them. They will become
                        imperfect because isolated thinkers; and their very imperfection will
                        increase their isolation, by depriving them of an internal standard of
                        soundness of thought which might replace the external one. We notice this in
                        the middle ages: while the artists, theologians, and jurists, the men whose
                        activity is incorporated with that of others, keep their heads very securely
                        on their shoulders, and their notions in sane reference to existing
                        knowledge, we find outside these intellectual guilds, as soon as we get to
                        the sporadic thinkers who deal with natural science or high philosophy, the
                        eccentricity and pretentiousness of quackery. These isolated
                        thinkers—Joachim of Flora, Raymond Lulle, Cardan, Paracelsus, are made giddy
                        by their own height above others, by the void they feel around them: they
                        get to think themselves paragons, possessors of universal  knowledge and power, prophets and sole spiritual
                        legislators. And in the neglected fields of thought which correspond to what
                        natural science and non?theological philosophy were in the middle ages, we,
                        too, have our sporadic thinkers, half seers and half nostrum vendors,
                        Carlyle, Tolstoi, Nietzsche, and others; men whose splendid achievements are
                        due to their own genius, while their blunders and exaggerations are largely
                        caused by the stupidity of their neighbours.
                    It is the same with moral standards as with intellectual ones; here again it
                        is unnecessary to postulate physiological degeneracy as an explanation of
                        mischievous theory and theoretically based action, new fangled or revived
                        from former days. Every society undoubtedly contains a proportion of
                        individuals who are morally less developed than the average, particularly
                        than the average ought to be, and in whom the imperfection takes the form of
                        indifference or rebellion towards the rules of conduct received by the
                        majority. But is there not likewise another contingent of morally inferior
                        persons whose inferiority, being of the sluggish, passive, as distinguished
                        from the impulsive, kind, manifests itself on the contrary in servile
                        acquiescence to the decisions of the majority, in automatic mimicry of the
                        majority’s proceedings? And is the one class, which rebels against what may
                        be good in our moral and social institutions, really more mischievous than
                        the other, which clings heavily to what may be bad? For, after all, moral
                        precepts, and particularly the habitual, practical, unspoken adaptations
                        thereof, represent the worse  as well as
                        the better portion of our very mixed mankind. And there are several kinds of
                        outlaws; those who are too bad completely to imitate their neighbours, those
                        who are too good, and those, again, I am tempted to think, who are
                        comparatively free either to conform or not to conform, not from any
                        superiority or inferiority, but from lack of imitativeness, lack of sense of
                        congruity, partial independence of position, or absorbing interest in other
                        matters: a class of apparent sceptics or indifferents, which keeps the
                        others from excess, which often holds the casting vote; and to which most
                        individuals, superior or inferior in their main characteristics, may belong
                        by some isolated habit or notion. These three classes of nonconformity may
                        be easily distinguished wherever men and women gather together for the
                        promulgation of schemes of life, modes of thought, and forms of art which
                        the majority dislikes or despises, from the Théâtre Libre to the Society for
                        Psychical Research, and from the revivals of ritualists or evangelists to
                        the meetings of socialists or anarchists. Looked at from the merely
                        intellectual point of view, the meeting of these three classes, associated
                        merely by the fact of elimination from a larger class, explains why
                        eccentricity, faddism, even positive monomania, always forms a fringe to
                        every centre of new and independent thought; even as the fact of individual
                        isolation has explained, I think, the fringe of mysticism and fanaticism
                        which surrounds the soundest thought of very solitary individual thinkers.
                        As regards moral atmosphere and even practical habits, this inevitable
                        herding together of outlawed persons, as of outlawed thoughts, whatever the reason of this outlawry, explains
                        the chief dangers of all revolutionary movements, as it explains the main
                        degradations of highly independent characters. In any sort of revolution the
                        highest and the lowest are always thrust together; the purest patriot and
                        reformer is apt to find himself the associate of fanatics and criminals,
                        rick burners and bomb throwers, for the mere reason that the powers that be,
                        finding all disturbance equally distressing, have set their face against
                        subversive ideas, as well as against deeds of violence. Nay, the community
                        of persecution almost infallibly warps the judgment of even the noblest
                        thinker; the awful strain of opposition, the lamentable dreariness of
                        isolation, make him come in contact with, even lean against, the men and
                        things he resembles least, because he is cut off from the men and things
                        that he resembles most. And as with men, so with thoughts. The rational
                        contempt for creeds and regulations which are foolish and harmful, drags
                        with it, in most cases, the irrational contempt for creeds and regulations
                        which are wise and useful; we know, all of us who have had free?thinking or
                        revolutionary grandfathers and grandmothers, that the waywardness and
                        lawlessness of notion of a man like Shelley need not have been the result of
                        any biological peculiarity; and that, if they were to any extent
                        deteriorations, they were not necessarily what Nordau calls stigmata of
                        degeneracy. Indeed, we need only search our own souls for the queer
                        comradeship of outlawed thought. And are we not made more lenient towards
                        the vapourings of neo?mystics, the egotism and depravity of decadents, the uncleanness of realists, by knowing
                        that Professor Nordau would like, if he could, to set up a Holy Office and
                        an Index Expurgatorius, and to commit to the flames the books, to the
                            maison de santé the bodies, of all the
                        writers whom, in the name of an immutable and officially consecrated
                        psychological science, he has condemned as degenerate?
                
                
                    V
                    But the great undefinable thing which we call civilisation progresses despite
                        all friction, makes improvement daily greater despite drawbacks, diminishes
                        year by year the proportion of evil involved in its good. Spiritual
                        degeneracy, deterioration of the man and of his thought, is still going on
                        lustily all round, like the physical degeneracy of which it is sometimes the
                        result, and sometimes the cause. National and class separation, professional
                        routine and limitation, social rivalry, isolation of the exceptional
                        individual and consequent self?assertion; herding together of various kinds
                        of nonconformity and consequent pollution of the superior eccentric by the
                        inferior; all these maladjustments—these lesser of two evils which are yet
                        evils in themselves—are filling the world with damaged thought and feeling
                        which beget in their turn feeling and thought more damaged still. Despite
                        all this, the maladjustments are diminishing, the inevitable evils growing
                        less evil. And in one thing particularly, perhaps because our commercial
                        society weighs lightly on mere opinion, perhaps also (let us hope) because
                        our growing good  sense recognises good
                        sense wherever it finds it—in one thing may we watch a constant diminution
                        of intellectual damage: there is less of the particular kind of friction
                        called intolerance.
                    Cocksureness, infallibility, readiness to defend the universe from our
                        private adversaries, is ceasing to be identified with honesty, sincerity,
                        magnanimity; it is beginning to skulk and mask itself in garments of
                        tolerance and reasonable scepticism. The ardour of reformation is at length,
                        thank Heaven, beginning to turn a little upon ourselves, our ideas and
                        associates; or to restrain at least its readiness to clear the world of
                        other people’s faults and errors. That things are really moving in this
                        direction is proved, I think, by our general astonishment at Professor
                        Nordau’s book. His absolute self?confidence, his unsuspecting readiness to
                        apply his own standards and judge all men and things on his own
                        responsibility, his prophetic violence of vituperation and fury of
                        destruction, his outspoken willingness to undertake the saving of society;
                        all these are things which would scarcely have surprised us in the not very
                        far?off days when Ruskin was writing Modern Painters and Karl
                        Marx On Capital; they were the accompaniment of the highest
                        philosophic discrimination a century ago, as we can verify by re?reading our
                        Voltaire, Rousseau, or Diderot. But now, thank Heaven again, they surprise
                        us beyond measure in a populariser of scientific notions, and even lead to
                        the suspicion that Professor Nordau may belong to his own vast tribe of
                        degenerates. I do not think, therefore, that unless the world become
                        socialistically organised, and the care of men’s souls become once  more a matter of state?jobbery, I do not
                        think we need be really alarmed at the prospect of a committee of spiritual
                        public safety, examining all literature, and art and philosophy, and, by an
                        efficient organisation of lay?confraternities, lay?inquisitions, and
                        lay?excommunications, sweeping off the face of the earth all heretics guilty
                        of offending the ways of Nature or Nordau. People will remember that
                        improvement, as well as deterioration, is often found disagreeable and
                        dangerous; they will reflect that Nature herself is the greatest of all
                        innovators; they may even be morbid enough (in Nordau’s opinion) to think
                        with profit on the symbol of the Son of God crucified between thieves, while
                        the High Priest and Pilate sit at meat with the very best people. So we need
                        waste no more words against the proposed new Inquisition.
                    But Professor Nordau’s book, as I have tried to suggest throughout these
                        criticisms, should furnish us nevertheless with food for exceedingly
                        salutary and needful thought; and this as much through its shortcomings as
                        its merits, its practical absurdities as its scientific wisdom.
                    We are all of us liable to becoming if not degenerate, then at
                        least undesirable: faulty, poor of stuff, and scant of measure in the very
                        things we most insist upon; and we all require, in our families, friends,
                        neighbours, but first and foremost in ourselves, to keep a sharp look?out,
                        to fight against these faultinesses and shortcomings. It is difficult to
                        guess whether, in freeing ourselves from the many enervations of the
                        confessional, we have or have not lost something which made, in other ways,
                        for spiritual health. At any rate  no one
                        can deny that indifference to the soul’s hygiene is one of the drawbacks of
                        our present accidental, helter?skelter, unintelligent form of individualism.
                        No one goes nowadays to the doctor for a spiritual diagnosis, and perhaps it
                        is better there should be no such doctor to go to; but no one even asks his
                        friend metaphorically to feel his pulse or look at his tongue, or has a
                        friend to whom either pulse or tongue, in the spiritual order, could reveal
                        anything; nobody knows anything about the symptoms of his soul’s health or
                        disease, or supposes anything to be of the nature of such symptoms. Hence
                        most of us—all of us who have received no strong religious bias—prepare to
                        go through life on the supposition that we are sound because we are
                            we; what we feel in ourselves we take to be normal; our
                        preferences and aversions seem the only possible ones under the
                        circumstances, simply and merely because we know of no others and institute
                        no comparisons. Meanwhile—and here comes in the great utility of books like
                        Nordau’s, including a large proportion of Nordau’s own book—it is just as
                        likely as not that we may be developing, in our innermost self, tendencies
                        and habits destructive, if not to others directly, then indirectly through
                        the impairing of our own physical and spiritual efficiency; we may be
                        allowing ourselves to become, through the pressure of external
                        circumstances, semi?maniacs and semi?criminals, where we might, had we
                        known, have remained sane and harmless. Nay, the general opinion on this
                        subject, so far as there is any, tends to consider it safest that we should
                        go on blindly among dangers of this sort, and avoid madness by not knowing
                        which  way madness lies. It is of course
                        possible that the knowledge of danger may create panic; that the reading of
                        books like Nordau’s may lead to egotistic self?analysis, scared
                        self?diagnosis, and in a measure, perhaps, self?suggestion of avoidable
                        peculiarities. But, after all, how many of us have not already suffered in
                        ignorance, tortured and damaged ourselves, as Renan did in his childhood
                        with the notion of simony, and Bunyan with the possibility of sin against
                        the Holy Ghost; merely to return, because of our ignorance, to the same bad
                        ways we have been torturing ourselves about. Surely it is not merely more
                        safe, but in the long run more comfortable, for the spiritual valetudinarian
                        to know once for all what he had better do and better avoid, what forms of
                        infection he is likely to catch, what kinds of strain he is least able to
                        endure, what rules of exercise and diet he must observe; what, in the domain
                        of the soul, are, to all men or to him individually, tonics or poisons.
                    All these possibilities and probabilities are most usefully brought before us
                        in Professor Nordau’s analyses of degeneracy in general, and even in those
                        criticisms of living authors which, however far?fetched and unjust in their
                        particular application, are nevertheless correct as accounts of the more
                        subtle and latent forms of spiritual disease. On the other hand, Professor
                        Nordau, if we analyse his most glaring faults, is a good warning of what we
                        might all come to if we did not resist the deteriorating effects of social
                        mechanisms, the tendency to produce apparent degeneracy inherent in most of
                        our social difficulties and discomforts, and in many of our facilitations
                        and  advantages. For Professor Nordau is
                        the type of the specialist, highly valuable in his own speciality, but
                        acquiring in its exercise a faith in his own infallibility, a blindness to
                        all qualities save those treated by his own study or required for its
                        prosecution, which allow him to approach all other fields without perception
                        of their requirements and his incompetence; the very adaptation of thought
                        to his own line preventing his understanding the different thought of
                        others. While, to make the typical warning complete, his own rashness and
                        injustice rousing against him all the thoughtless, unscrupulous
                        combativeness of others, surrounds him with what appears a world of
                        imbecility and wickedness, against which he feels justified in venting all
                        his own least intelligent brutality. Until, to those who can resist the
                        contagion of absurdity and injustice, Nordau becomes, as I have said, a
                        typical warning, filling one with a holy terror (“Alios age incitatos alios
                        age rabidos”) of being run away with by any idea however excellent, of
                        letting one’s self be fuddled or made uproarious by the very best
                        intellectual wine.
                    One word more. The reader will lay down Nordau’s volume, and perhaps my
                        criticism thereof, with a vague notion that whatever may be the truth about
                        degeneracy, the Philistine (and we are all Philistines in most of our
                        capacities) is safe, neither dangerous nor in danger. Now this, in the name
                        and in the face of all the Philistines of Creation, is what I desire to
                        protest against. In the first place, as I have just remarked, every man and
                        woman is in some things a Philistine, born of Philistines and brought up in
                        the air of Philistia. In the second place, the Philistine, taken as an
                            indivi? dual, is far from necessarily
                        wholesome or social, as distinguished from anti?social and morbid. His
                        ungenial defects (taking genial in the psychologist’s sense as well as the
                        other) are none the less dangerous because they are shared by ten thousand
                        others more or less like himself; nor are his anti?social ways, his habits
                        of vanity, lust, rapacity, and sloth less detrimental because they are
                        confined within the limits of laws and customs which he himself has made or
                        levelled up to. He is not a degenerate, very likely; but he is an imperfect
                        being, and every one pays for his imperfections. Are religious bigotry,
                        social snobbishness, official corruption, industrial grabbingness, tolerated
                        vice, parental and conjugal tyranny, due to exceptional degenerate
                        individuals or to the normal mass? What if the standard, the
                            norm is low? Nay, are not degenerates themselves due to the
                        normals’ wretched inefficiency? Does not the selfishness and
                        shortsightedness of the normal mass foster every form of cussedness,
                        exaggeration, fanaticism, that is to say, wrong individual attitude, either
                        by its assistance or the opposition? Inquire into cases of infraction of
                        social laws: have those who infringe them been dealt with wisely? are the
                        laws they break (however foolishly and selfishly) unselfish, allwise laws,
                        particularly framed in view to their happiness? In a word, does society not
                        produce its own degenerates and criminals, even as the body produces its own
                        diseases, or at least fosters them?
                    This is no anti?social tirade; neither anarchy nor egotism is my special form
                        of degeneracy. The individual, it seems to me, becomes weak and limited  in proportion as he is isolated and
                        self?centred. But we must not count too much upon the soundness of the
                        majority, nor imagine that it is necessarily more complete than the
                        individual. All class prejudice, half of what we call national feeling, is
                        merely accumulated and inveterate spiritual degeneracy; and so far from the
                        majority being able, in such matters, to protect the individual, it is only
                        the individual, the eccentric, nonconforming, rebellious individual, who
                        can, in the long run, save the majority. We are always, and always have been
                            (pace Professor Nordau), surrounded by
                        causes of degeneracy, and perhaps the one we need most guard against
                        nowadays is the notion that society can relieve the individual from his
                        spiritual difficulties and defend him from his spiritual dangers. Most
                        dangers are not the same to all individuals, but bigotry and fanaticism are
                        dangers to every individual; and to the community, they are greater dangers
                        than morbid peculiarities of a less spreading kind. The worst kind of
                        spiritual degeneracy is surely that which is gregarious, and which, for that
                        reason, is unsuspecting of its own existence. To combat it we require to
                        hear every one, to allow every variety of human being to express itself; we
                        require to compare opinion with opinion, to correct bias by bias, to level
                        exaggeration by exaggeration, to taste of all that we may select in
                        everything. For the rule of life is selection; not merely of us by nature
                        and fate, but by us of fate and nature. Our souls are beset by dangerous
                        tendencies, notions, and examples: let every individual, therefore,
                        scrutinise and select among the tendencies and notions of others; scrutinise
                        and select more carefully still among the
                        tendencies and notions he may find in himself. Against degeneracy of soul
                        there is, after all, but one sweeping remedy: the determination to alter
                        continually for the better; the determination to become, rather than to
                        remain, absolutely sane.
                
            
            
            
                TOLSTOI AS PROPHET
                NOTES ON THE PSYCHOLOGY OF ASCETICISM
                
                TOLSTOI AS PROPHET
                NOTES ON THE PSYCHOLOGY OF ASCETICISM
                
                    IN his religious and philosophical writings, Count Tolstoi would
                        seem to represent the prophetic temperament in such incarnation as is likely
                        to become the commonest, indeed perhaps the only possible, one in the near
                        future. For, in the gradual disruption of dogmatic creeds, the man born to
                        the prophetic quality and function tends more and more to be a heretic and
                        an anarchist; to practise an exegesis backed by no authority; and to benefit
                        or harass mankind, to exhibit to mankind the spectacle of prophecy, more and
                        more obviously without any inspiration save the unquestioned one of his own
                        individual constitution. The Prophet, being a type of humanity, represents
                        certain impulses for good and evil existing in numbers of his
                        fellow?creatures, is in fact a specimen of a human force of the universe;
                        and he not only displays in crudest isolation special tendencies making for
                        life’s greater fruitfulness or sterility, but also directs the scathing
                        light of almost monomaniacal perception on matters which the average routine
                        of existence neglects to our disadvantage. The Prophet is useful as a
                        teacher; but still more useful as a
                        lesson. It is in this double capacity that the following marginal notes may
                        help to put to use the prophet, not the artist, Tolstoi.
                
                
                    I
                    “To the man perverted by the false doctrines of the century, it seems,”
                        &c., &c.
                    This form of words, perpetually recurring throughout Tolstoi’s didactic
                        writings, acquaints us with one of the chief drawbacks of the prophetic
                        mind: an incapacity so utter of conceiving any views different from his own,
                        that they appear monstrous not merely in their results but also in their
                        origin. “Perverse,” “False,” a kind of devil’s spawn in vacuo. Now, the wonderful tenacity of false
                        doctrines and perverseattitudes would suggest, to such as are
                        not prophets, that there may be something to be said in their favour; that
                        such falseness and perverseness may be an
                        inevitable—nay, a necessary—stage of something else; that it is, in some
                        fashion, in league with the ways of things. The theologians of the past
                        could postulate Original Sin or the Fundamental Abominableness of Matter;
                        but one might expect that the prophets of our own day, Stirner and
                        Nietzsche, quite as much as Tolstoi, would have forfeited this logical
                        advantage and desisted from judging all things as if they had been intended
                        to please just them. Not a bit; the prophetic temperament has remained
                        unchanged; and all prophets—prophets of cynicism, quite as much as prophets
                        of asceticism—display the same alacrity in seating them? selves down ad dexteram
                            Domini, or, indeed, on the throne off which the Lord has been
                        hustled as some sort of idol. What unhesitating rapidity they display, those
                        great nostrum?mongers, not merely in defining the world’s contents and
                        making plans for its complete overhauling, but in packing off everything
                        which does not suit them to the bottomless pit! Mankind, in the mean while,
                        like some half?hearted follower of Savonarola, shoves the false
                        and perverse doctrines not into the destroying flames, but
                        merely into the dust?heap, whence they are incontinently extracted, for
                        exclusive use, by another Prophet or another School of Prophecy. Let no one
                        take these remarks for the raillery of scepticism: the thorough?paced
                        sceptic of modern days (my ingenious friend H.B. Brewster, for instance) is
                        just as much carried away by the spirit of prophecy as the dogmatists whom
                        he scoffs at. I am speaking as a mere looker—on, vaguely conscious that,
                        since they all exist, these various excessive views must each answer to some
                        aspect of reality; vaguely regretting, also, that we, less specially gifted
                        creatures, should waste so much of the scant time given us for the
                        application of truth in sorting the litter of exaggerations and the rubbish
                        of anathema with which the great One?sided Ones encumber the earth.
                    The heap of valuable and worthless things constituted by Tolstoi’s
                        philosophical and moral writings is the better worth our sorting that, in
                        trying to understand this latest addition to the literature of prophetic
                        asceticism, we shall be learning to understand, perhaps to select and profit
                        by, some other ascetic doctrines, of so ancient an origin and such habitual
                        repetition that  we have almost ceased to
                        look either for their psychological reason or for their practical
                        application.
                
                
                    II
                    “Like the penitent thief, I knew that I was unhappy, that I suffered, and
                        that all the human beings around me were suffering and feeling
                            themselves unhappy. . . and, even as the penitent thief (nailed
                        to his cross) saw coming towards him the horrid darkness of death ... so I
                        saw the same prospect open before me.”
                    The words I have italicised contain the main postulate of all pessimism, and
                        of nearly all asceticism, religious as well as philosophical, Buddhist and
                        Stoical, of Schopenhauer as much as of the “Imitation.” The pessimist is
                        unhappy: therefore every one else is; he sees no meaning in life save that
                        of his ascetic formula: therefore there is none; he is afraid of death:
                        therefore fear of death is in every breast. And this gratuitous
                        classification of all mankind under one’s own headings is justified by the
                        additional generalisation, that those who imagine themselves to feel or
                        think differently are perverted by false doctrine or sunk in beastlike
                        indifference.
                
                
                    III
                    After this follows logically the second postulate of such as think, or rather
                        of such as are constituted, like Tolstoi:
                    “Why had I not earlier put in practice this doctrine which gives me happiness? The answer is
                            very simple: Because I did not know the truth.”
                    At first sight, it seems strange that the creator of such marvellously living
                        beings as Natacha, Peter Besukoff, Princess Mary, Anna Karenine, Oblonsky or
                        Levine should not have been able to think, what he so clearly felt and
                        showed in them, that human beings do not seek happiness but
                        obey instincts, and that the greatest mass of probable happiness in front
                        has little attractive power save when it coincides with the vis a tergo, the forward push of cravings,
                        tendencies and habits. One might imagine that in Tolstoi the novelist’s
                        conception was so concrete and individual, the novelist’s genius so
                        automatic and unreasoning, as to reduce the powers of analysis and
                        generalisation to almost childish insignificance. Be this as it may, this
                        greatest painter of human character, able to copy with faultless precision
                        the soul’s actual workings, seems not to know the rudiments of the soul’s
                        physiology or mechanics, on which those workings depend. It never seems to
                        enter his head that, if this “knowledge,” this paramount doctrine of such
                        direct application and infallible virtue, has remained hidden, obscured, for
                        near nineteen hundred years, there must have been, in mankind, but a very
                        faint need for a remedy so near at hand; nor that this inefficacy in so long
                        a past argues but small immediate result in the present; those selfsame
                        interests which hid or distorted this doctrine of salvation showing, by
                        their tenacity, that it is absurd to expect them to yield and disappear of a
                        sudden and as by miracle. But the fact is that Tolstoi, much as he would
                        disclaim it, not only admits of miracle, but bases all his hope upon it. His own experience is of a miraculous kind,
                        simply because, to his own powers of observation, the thing which really
                        happened, the way it happened, is necessarily hidden. Tolstoi’s conversion
                        is one of those of which all religious autobiography is full, and of which
                        Professor William James has put together so fine a volume of specimens. At a
                        given moment in a man’s life, either after a period of religious stress or
                        with apparent total suddenness, something takes place in the
                            soul: the doubts, scruples, fears, despair, vanish; and in their
                        place is a new set of hopes, a new vital certainty, or (as the doctor in
                        Ibsen’s play would call it) a new “Vital Lie.” What is it that actually
                        happened? The souls liable to such complete change and renovation, sudden or
                        gradual, are those least likely to be able to tell us. For the concentration
                        of one kind of feeling, the unfamiliarity of the elements formerly latent
                        and now dominant, the very completeness of former despair and present joy,
                        make him who experiences such a conversion incapable of observing, and
                        perhaps of conceiving, its real nature.
                    The conversion of Tolstoi is not a sudden one; but it is characterised by the
                            mono?ideism of such phenomena. The intensity and
                        exclusiveness of his long and suicidal broodings did not leave in his soul
                        that lucid, disinterested half which can understand and intelligently
                        record: there was but one self at work, one self floundering in nightmare
                        and suddenly lifted to beatific relief. Tolstoi fails to notice what strikes
                        every spectator from the first—namely, that in his least regenerate days,
                        his most carnal and perversely  thinking
                        days, he dealt preferably with characters unknown to previous novelists,
                        Peter, André, Levine, men haunted already by the very thought which was to
                        overshadow his own mind, the eternal query: “Why live, since one must die?”
                        That such should have been his heroes shows that he knew more of asceticism
                        than other novelists perhaps capable of creating his other characters—say,
                        Wronsky or Nicholas Rostoff. This, evidently, never strikes Tolstoi himself.
                        Still less, of course, does it occur to him that the importance taken in his
                        mind by that recurring “Why?” let alone the fact of its having, in the midst
                        of prosperity, driven him to the verge of suicide, shows that he was
                        constitutionally destined to concentrate on this problem; or, briefly, that
                        the value of his conversion depended on his passionate need of it: the
                        remedy was commensurate with the evil, and both were in himself, inborn.
                    This Tolstoi could not see. And, failing to guess that his was a very special
                        and rare case, he attributed his own spiritual drama to the rest of mankind.
                        A large number of his neighbours were visibly discontented and unhappy; a
                        larger still he chose to consider as being so: well, then, their discontent
                        and their unhappiness were due to the same causes as his own. They might,
                        indeed, explain it by poverty, illness, cramped activities, thwarted
                        passions, by anything or everything they chose; that, Tolstoi assured them,
                        was but delusion, and the real matter with them was what had been the matter
                        with himself.
                    For in all prophetic persons there is a sadly comic side, reminding one of
                        those valetudinarians who press  the pills
                        or waters which have relieved their liver or their spleen on all the people
                        of their neighbourhood with damaged heart, brain or marrow—nay, with poor
                        bruised or broken limbs. Moreover, in the spiritual example, the
                        recalcitrance of supposed fellow?sufferers, their clinging to their own
                        diagnosis, especially their making light of their own ills, is instantly set
                        down as a sure sign that all sensation and all judgment have been perverted
                        by the very malady they refuse to own up to. But, worst off of any, those
                        who, in the face of the universal, infallible and painless panacea, actually
                        maintain that, for the present at least, they have no ailments of any kind,
                        that they are (shameless or deluded wretches!) sound in mind and limb! As to
                        those, well, all Tolstoi can say is that, just in proportion to their
                        contentment with life, they are already dead and done for; galvanised
                        corpses, set on end to gibber and to poison others with their
                        putrescence.
                
                
                    IV
                    Let us continue our analysis of Tolstoi’s postulates; which, at the same
                        time, is an examination of the modes of thought characteristic of the
                        ascetic attitude and the prophetic temperament.
                    “Every human being lives in the name of some particular principle; and this
                        principle, in whose name he lives in that given fashion, is no other thing
                        than his religion.”
                    The identification holds good only when the principle in question happens to
                        be of the sort we all mean by “religious.”
                        If we accepted Tolstoi’s statement without this rider, which makes it
                        tautological, we should be obliged, like H.B. Brewster in his “Ame
                            Païenne,” to identify a man’s religion, his God, with his
                        dominant impulse or combination of impulses; and the most profane and wicked
                        lives might thus be led, as Hoffmann imagines the operatic Don Juan’s, in
                        the name of the principle, let us say, of Leporello’s
                        catalogues. The vital principle of most men’s lives has been
                        given its right name only by Nietzsche; it is “My Inclination.” But it is
                        not of such principles as these that Tolstoi is speaking; and any other
                        principle of life, any principle conscious, formulated and dominating all
                        other impulses and habits, any principle which can be called a religion,
                        exists only in a minority of cases, at least in the sense of constant
                        intellectual reference and constant moral incentive.
                
                
                    V
                    “Life is an aspiration after happiness; the aspiration after happiness is
                        life.”
                    This is psychologically false. In reality life is—that is,
                        exclusively consists of—no more this than any other very
                        frequent item of consciousness; life being, to a large extent, absorption in
                        various concerns or interests to the positive exclusion of all “aspiration
                        after happiness.” Nor is there any reason why such “aspiration after
                        happiness” should be more frequent; for, in the majority of cases, happiness
                        itself is secured, and best secured,
                        without any conscious straining after it. Happiness is secured, and with it
                        life’s furtherance for the individual and race, in that manner which
                        Tolstoi, unable to deny its existence, condemns beforehand with the absurd
                        epithet of “animal”; secured by the play of clashing or coordinated
                        impulses, which, so far from being more particularly animal,
                        may happen to be impulses of the highest moral or æsthetic or constructive
                        or intellectual sort.
                    All pessimism, all asceticism, is founded upon the supposition of what
                        Tolstoi calls the “illusory thirst for enjoyment.” Now, however numerous the
                        cases where enjoyment proves impossible or mischievous, the continued
                        existence of the human race shows that, ninety?nine times out of a hundred,
                        neither the enjoyment nor the thirst for it is illusory, but, on the
                        contrary, a genuine advantage, making subsequent enjoyment not less, but
                        more, possible by perfecting the sensibilities. The healthy activity of the
                        whole individual, with its inevitable hierarchy of impulses, both secures
                        pleasure and forestalls cloying, and, by its inclusion of intellectual and
                        sympathetic interests, its subordination of others to these, it diminishes
                        conflict with fellow?beings quite as effectually as does Tolstoi’s
                        Renunciation. And here let me say that there is surely something mean in
                        this reciprocal renunciation, resulting in the cessation of struggle and
                        disappointment. Such renunciation is often needful in our imperfect
                        individual case: our eye gives us offence, and we cast it from us. But such
                        rough?and?ready, such wasteful, destructive methods are surely not
                        admissible in a philosophy of life, in a 
                        counsel of perfection! The universal, as distinguished from the
                        individual, rule for greater happiness is not self?diminution but
                        assimilation, expansion, the non?ego becoming, in imagination and feelings,
                        an integral part of the ego. Asceticism preaches voluntary impoverishment:
                        my neighbours cease to steal because I possess nothing; I cease to covet,
                        because they possess nothing; ’tis Epictetus’s safety after the thieves had
                        carried away his brass lamp. But the law of human life is barter: asking
                        freely and giving fully; mutual enriching through each other’s superfluity.
                        Asceticism refuses to admit this law; for all asceticism moves in the
                        logical circle of pain as cause and effect.
                
                
                    VI
                    “Men, like all other living creatures, are forced by the conditions of life
                        to live forever at one another’s expense, devouring one another literally or
                        metaphorically. And man, in so far as gifted with reason, cannot blink the
                        fact that every material advantage is obtained by one creature only at the
                        expense of some other creature.”
                    A series of quite gratuitous biological and economical assumptions, which are
                        made more intelligible by a statement in another place that “the workman who
                        wears out his body and hastens his death is giving that body as food to
                        others.”
                    Now, in all these premises, Tolstoi omits one half of the fact—namely, that,
                        in the majority of cases, a human being, while giving himself,
                        gets, or has got, something from others.
                            Taking by no means implies stealing, nor is
                            benefiting by one’s fellows the same thing as preying on
                        them. The workman is not breaking down his health and hastening his death
                        any faster while working for others than while working for himself, except
                        from occasional reasons quite independent of whom the work is to benefit
                        most. He is not breaking down his health or hastening his own death more
                        than if he were committing excesses of other kinds for his own sole
                        satisfaction; and, except through the accidental or incidental
                        misarrangement of the world, he is not breaking down his health or
                            hastening on death at all, but rather the reverse. The detriment
                        to the individual is due to excess as regards himself, not in the least to
                        profitableness to others. The increase of the world’s material and spiritual
                        wealth depends upon activity; but activity, when not excessive, is an
                        integration, not a disintegration, of individual life. The world is carried
                        on upon the principle of barter and compensation; and, even in such low
                        forms of life as those where animals or savages actually prey upon each
                        other, the one who feeds upon his victim to?day is bound to be fed upon, as
                        an individual or a class, to?morrow: the lion ends off as the sustenance of
                        vultures, jackals and insects. But Tolstoi, for reasons we shall presently
                        grasp and can already guess at, chooses to consider that all profiting by
                        the existence of others represents an unwilling or a voluntary sacrifice.
                        When it is voluntary, he calls it love; and here again comes a gratuitous
                        assumption. Let us look at this question of Love and of Sacrifice, for it is
                        important and one upon which ordinary 
                        thought (though luckily not every?day practice!) is in considerable
                        confusion. Alongside of the sentence about the workman destroying himself
                        for the benefit of others, is another example of what Tolstoi chooses to
                        consider as self?sacrifice: the mother suckling her baby. He could not have
                        come by a better refutation of his own theory; for it is plain that the
                        mother is giving life to her child, but it is also plain that her bodily
                        health and her happiness gain by this supposed sacrifice, which is, in
                        reality, an organic advantage. From such an example, however, Tolstoi
                        concludes that “love is really worthy of that name only when it is the
                        sacrifice of self.” In one sense, this is quite undeniable; but that sense
                        is not Tolstoi’s. For love is preference; and love
                        leads to self?sacrifice, that is to say, to sacrifice of greater or smaller
                        advantages—nay, even of health, power or life—simply because all preference
                        of one particular thing or group of things leads to sacrifice of other
                        things or groups of things, whether that preference be socially beneficial
                        (which we call “unselfish”) or socially detrimental (which we call
                        “selfish”), whether it happen to be duty, ambition, hatred, vanity, lust;
                        whether it be the love of Cordelia or the love of Francesca; though, of
                        course, the measure of every preference (since preference implies
                        alternative) is not the measure more especially of love, and still less is
                        it love’s chief characteristic. The characteristic, the typical, fact of
                        love must be sought for in that from which the highest love has, by analogy,
                        borrowed its name, and perhaps, very literally, taken its origin: the union
                        of two creatures who take joy in producing a third. The  analogous process takes place in the spiritual
                        domain: we give our thought, our fancy, our will, in union with the external
                        world or with the will, the thought or fancy of others; and in so doing
                        create new forms, new ideas, new modes of feeling, nay, new selves.
                    But at the bottom of the Tolstoian conception of love (which is only the
                        usual ascetic one) is the old, savage notion of sacrifice: of a universe so
                        evil that all happiness must be discounted in misery—“I did but taste a
                        little honey with the end of the rod that was in mine hand, and, lo, I must
                        die!” The implacable gods, the atrocious Cosmos, the Ogre Fee?Faw?Fum at the
                        top of every Bean Stalk, insist on increasing suffering through every
                        apparent alleviation or apparent enjoyment. It is worth while, especially in
                        the face of a thinker like Tolstoi, to disentangle the notion of
                            giving from the notion of giving up; to
                        separate the notion of renunciation, as a choice between two positive or
                        negative desiderata, from the notion of
                        renunciation, as mere refusal of good and acceptance of evil. The really
                        fruitful act of giving oneself, one’s strength, attention, thought or
                        feeling, is not a loss, but the fulfilling of an organic need as essential
                        as that of material or spiritual assimilation; it is, in fact, the
                        inevitable sequel of real assimilation. If the sacrifice of something is
                        often implied in this, it is merely the sacrifice by alternative, the
                        preference of one need or desire or pleasure over another. Such preference
                        as this is a principle of order in the moral realm: the fulness of life
                        means, ipso facto, the constant checking
                        of the less important by the more important; it means moderation because it means alternative,
                        selection, subordination and hierarchy of the impulses in which life
                        consists. The vanity of the pursuit of pleasure, of which Tolstoi, like
                        every moralist, makes (and rightly, perhaps) so much capital, results from
                        the absence of such a complex hierarchy of impulse: the larger part of the
                        pleasure?seeker is sacrificed to a momentary desire, and that omitted bulk
                        of his nature either upsets the satisfaction aimed at, or leaves the unruly
                        desire to languish in isolation.
                    But Tolstoi, like all ascetics, seeks his remedy not in moderation, not in
                        the development of other impulses, not in fact in the enriching of the
                        individual life, but in its impoverishment. Moral Good is,
                        according to him, that condition where man pursues nothing for its own sake
                        or his own ends, and nothing for the interest and pleasure of the pursuit;
                        but only for the sake of another human being, or of a vague sense of duty
                        personified as God. Tolstoi’s ideal of life is, like his notion of love, an
                        ideal of diminution, of sacrifice; and it seems likely that, even as in the
                        ritual of primeval man, the ascetic conception of sacrifice as such, of
                        sacrifice as loss, impoverishment, mutilation, is very closely connected
                        with the fear of death; sacrifice being, however inexplicitly, a
                        commutation, a partial, symbolical or vicarious death, instead of a total
                        and positive one.
                
                
                    VII
                    In the case of Tolstoi, there is the repeated and unqualified expression of
                        the constant thought, the  constant fear,
                        of Death. Already, in his pseudo?autobiography, we find the following
                        funeral oration on the old housekeeper Natalia Savichna:
                    “She accomplished the best and greatest act of the life of this world: dying
                        without regret and without fear.”
                    Now, this fear, whose absence thus seems a rare form of holiness, is, in a
                        sense, a misconception, a misconception revealing the fundamental complexion
                        of all asceticism. Let us examine it. Life and
                            Death form together one of those false antitheses which
                        have been pointed out by that subtle analyst, Gabriel Tarde. Life and Death
                        are opposed in position; but not, so to speak, in the ground which they
                        cover or the facts they respectively include. Because what is
                            alive cannot also be dead, and what is
                            dead cannot also be alive, we have, in our slovenly
                        fashion, grown accustomed to think of the fact of being alive and the fact
                        of being dead as of equal importance, intensity and extension. We overlook
                        the real antithesis, which is between death and
                            birth, the two points without magnitude
                        between which extends life. Moreover, we have confused death
                        with the process of dying, often accompanied by illness or preceded by
                        decay, which is a portion, sometimes a considerable portion, of the
                        processes of life. Nor is this all. The immense part played in our life by
                        the death of others gives the notion of dying a frightful duration in our
                        consciousness, and makes us think, by analogy, that our own death also is a
                        wide blot or oil spot in our life. Hence death, which, being the limit of
                        life, exists in reality outside it, becomes, so far as it is thought about and feared, a most important and
                        terrible part of life.
                    Life is consciousness; and, except in consciousness, death is nothing; it
                        becomes, in consciousness, grief or terror. But grief and terror are
                        realities. Of course; since it is thanks to them that death, or rather the
                        notion of death, has come to poison so much of life. Heaven forbid I should
                        argue that either philosophy or religion can ever abolish grief or fear,
                        abolish the agony of departing, the agony of being left behind. Loss is
                        loss, and parting is parting, a fact, a horror, which nothing can efface.
                        But let us not add to these the dread either of life or of death, deeply,
                        indissolubly entangled as they become. And if philosophy represent any
                        higher truth, and religion any higher utility, let them strive to diminish
                        this hideous tangle, to hold our thoughts and feelings asunder; make us see
                        things as they are, and make them, so far as our attitude toward them goes,
                        a little more what they should be. Life, our own and that of our beloved, is
                        good in proportion as it is safe and complete, as it is untouched by the
                        chance, the fact, but worst of all, the fear, of death. And all
                        healthy life tends to cast forth from itself the vain and paralysing thought
                        of its own end.
                
                
                    VIII
                    We have seen that the prophetic temper is characterised by a tendency to
                            mono?ideism, and that mono?ideism invariably tends to
                        jealousy of all that it  excludes. One of
                        Tolstoi’s most characteristic pieces of such mono?ideistic jealousy, is his
                        elaborate catalogue of sinful indulgences; of what, especially, he puts
                        under the rubric “intoxication,” including therein, as venial or mortal sin,
                        the intoxication not merely by wine, tobacco or fleshly love, but by art,
                        literature, “gestures and sounds,” and even bicycling. The exaggeration is
                        so gross that one fails at first to conceive how it could come about in a
                        mind as originally excellent, and a life as many?sided, as Tolstoi’s. But
                        the explanation, furnished by comparison with the raptures of earlier
                        mystics, appears to be that the ascetic has his own form of intoxication.
                        Here is Tolstoi’s account of his state of beatitude after his conversion has
                        been consummated:
                    “All that seems evil to me does so merely because I believe in myself and not
                        in God; and as, from this life where it is so easy to do His will,
                            since His will is mine, I can fall nowhere except into Him, what
                        I possess is complete joy and good. And all I could write would fail
                            to express what I feel.”
                    Let us consider these seemingly simple statements. It is so easy for Tolstoi
                        to do God’s will! God’s will is, after all, only Tolstoi’s; Tolstoi can fall
                        only into God! Is this presumptuous certainty of righteousness, this
                        identification of the individual impulse and the moral law, this unmixed and
                        ineffable joy, anything save an intoxication of a more insidious, but
                        scarcely less unwholesome, kind? Taking in the full meaning of such words as
                        these, one wonders whether there will ever arise a new habit of spiritual
                        cleanness, of intellectual chastity, making men question and reject  emotional self?indulgence like this,
                        which sullies the reason and sterilises the will. One doubts it. For, from
                        century to century, mankind may be watched yielding, even as to lower kinds
                        of self?indulgence, to the subtle and high?flown temptation of mysticism.
                        This temptation consists in attributing to an emotional state of our own
                        (the state of Nietzsche’s Zarathustra, as much as ’the state of Kipling’s
                        poor old Lama) the name and the importance of a generalised objective fact;
                        nay, of the greatest and most solemn of facts which man has thus
                        generalised: the Will of God, the Nature of Things.
                    The very recurrence of such a process of spiritual intoxication implies, it
                        may be said, a recurrent need of it. Yes; but a need which results from
                        other needs being neglected. Between the cravings which produce science,
                        art, laws—nay, food and progeny—and the mystical craving such as this of
                        Tolstoi there is a fundamental difference: they are fruitful, and it is
                        barren.
                    And this word “barren” suggests another of the drawbacks of asceticism. In
                        its exclusiveness, its mono?ideism, its readiness to condemn all save
                        itself, asceticism tends to waste much of the moral resources (so cruelly
                        needed!) of ordinary mortals, and, on the other hand, to get its moral gifts
                        rejected by those who require them most; its teaching is shelved as dead
                        letter, or, at best, counsel of perfection.
                    Renounce the world, preaches Tolstoi; despise, cease to relish, such of the
                        world’s work, of the body’s functions, as cannot be relinquished; let
                        nothing touch you for its own sake or your own; eradicate self from your thoughts and feelings, and replace
                        it by your neighbour, by mankind, by that impersonal personification of
                        ideals which is Tolstoi’s notion of God.
                    “If such be saintliness, chivalrousness, sentiment,” answers the rest of
                        mankind silently to itself, “by all means keep it on a shelf out of the way
                        of ordinary life. Truthfulness, justice, chastity, mercy, are clearly quite
                        unsuitable to the increase of wealth and the rearing of families; and is it
                        not the saints and prophets, Tolstoi for instance, who tell us so?”
                    Now, as a matter of fact, to what save daily life can ideals, sentiment,
                        saintliness, be profitably applied? Truthfulness, honesty, justice,
                        chastity, mercy, are nothing but correctives of this world’s ways; and it is
                        only as such correctives that, save for the æsthetic pleasure of a divinity,
                        they can ever be wanted. Unworldliness must be cultivated because our
                        interests are legitimately worldly.
                    But holiness and heroism, precious because they are useful, have been
                        considered as precious apart from use. Saints and heroes have been
                        cultivated like rare and wonderful flowers, incapable of ever turning into
                        fruit for food and seed. And, as a result of such isolation and sterility,
                        mankind has come to be divided—as we see it in Buddhism, in Christian
                        monasticism and less crassly elsewhere—into the church and the world: those
                        who accept life and sin, and those who kill the body, or all the body stands
                        for, in order to perfect the soul. Like every other ascetic, Tolstoi, in
                        preaching his doctrine of renunciation, is unconsciously giving in to the
                        vicious automatism which sunders the
                        natural man from the saint, and which discourages all application of higher
                        feelings to ordinary existence on the score that ordinary existence can
                        never be composed of higher feelings only. And in so far Tolstoi merely
                        increases the modern tendency to question the efficacy of all moral
                        teaching, to doubt the wholesomeness of sentiment and to consider ideals of
                        conduct either as a mere symptom, an epiphenomenon a fly on the axletree of progress, or (and
                        human illogicalness reconciles both indictments) as a mischievous
                        interference with the automatic ways of natural selection. It would instead
                        be more philosophical to consider the continued recurrence of such ascetic
                        or idealising tendencies as a proof of their utility, despite all drawbacks,
                        in helping on the practical existence of mankind. But ascetics have treated
                        their especial soul?medicine or soul?food as the one panacea; and mankind
                        (as prone to exaggeration as the prophets themselves) has developed a
                        tendency to consider the dealers in panaceas as quacks or the victims of
                        quacks.
                
                
                    IX
                    The foregoing notes have attempted to set forth some of the chief
                        peculiarities of the ascetic view of life, and of the prophetic temperament,
                        as we may study them united in the person of Tolstoi. We have taken stock of
                        the pessimistic basis of asceticism, its rejection of moderation,
                        equilibrium of function, and such moral improvements as rest upon them, in
                        opposition to wholesale renunciation; its passion for  sacrifice and its preoccupation with death;
                        finally, its tendency to a divorce between spirituality and life. In a
                        similar manner, we have had occasion to verify the isolated and one?sided
                        attitude of the born prophet; his attribution of his own moods and needs to
                        the rest of the world, and his jealousy of, nay, hostility towards, every
                        other mode of being; his incapacity for assimilating the ideas of others,
                        for meeting them half?way and, of course, for feeling any correction or
                        check to his own notions; briefly, his mono?ideism, and his mixture (odd,
                        but so explicable) of complete self?belief and utter scepticism of received
                        opinion.
                    And, having set these studies so far before the reader, I can forestall his
                        question, and shall endeavour to answer it: as I have had to answer it for
                        myself in the course of my reading of Tolstoi, to account for our
                        instinctive sympathy with the seemingly useless teachings of asceticism.
                    This usefulness, these uses, result from the same peculiarities as the faults
                        and the drawbacks. Isolation and mono?ideism give the ascetic and the
                        prophet an extraordinary freedom of view, wherever his own definite attitude
                        and limited idea are not concerned. Unconscious of those sympathising and
                        imitative impulses which compact other individuals with their fellows;
                        untouched by any of the temptations which make others blink and compromise;
                        inattentive to any other man’s views and, therefore, perfectly sceptical
                        towards them; and harassed, moreover, through and through, by organic
                        dissatisfaction and unrest, this thinker, alone with his own thoughts and
                             feelings (his Eagle and his Serpent,
                        like Nietzsche’s Zarathustra) is the most ruthless of critics and
                        destroyers. Every ascetic is, in essence, an anarchist and a nihilist, a
                        “sayer of ‘No’” to the accepted life of the world—in the words (more
                        significant than he, perhaps, knew) of James Hinton, a “Law Breaker”; since
                        the only law he believes in is the law of his own exceptional and isolated
                        way of being. Hence he sees, as no laughing sceptic ever can, through every
                        exaggeration, every “vital lie” save his own. The dominant and recurrent
                        thought of all ascetics, from Buddhism and Ecclesiastes, through Stoicism
                        and Christian Mysticism to the smallest modern revivalist, is
                            vanity—the emptiness, non?existence, of everything save
                        their own narrow wishes, needs and habits. Now, this attitude of mind
                        corresponds to a great deal that really exists: in the happy?go?lucky, lazy,
                        yet hurried, processes of life, there is quite an enormous amount which is
                        dead letter, perfunctory, wasteful and mischievous; results of imperfect
                        evolution, like those useless organs, those imperfect adaptations, which,
                        according to the ingenious paradox of Dr. Metchnikoff, account for all
                        disease, all vice and suffering, but which an instinct of social safety or
                        individual laziness goes on admiring, as the Bridgewater writers admired the
                        “harmonious designs of Nature.” On to all such perfunctory, dead letter, all
                        such lying things, all such imperfect adaptations and mischievous survivals,
                        the ascetic, the prophet, the marvellous anarchist, Tolstoi, directs his
                        ruthless clear?sightedness. We all know his chapters on luxury, on the
                        pseudo?work of the so?called intellectual classes, on the pseudo? morality of official religion, on so many of the
                        idle activities which give us our daily bread or our daily ration of
                        self?satisfaction. His immense and wearisome volume on art remains as a most
                        useful memento vivere or memento mori to all of us who talk glibly of
                        the holiness of beauty and its social mission. “The Kreutzer Sonata”
                        probably aroused universal hostility less by its morbid and unchaste
                        (monkish!) kind of chastity, than by its terribly true criticism of so much
                        corruption and enervation hidden secure in the sacred mysteries of marriage
                        and family life. And the writings on War are but the more moving and more
                        explicit development of the remark of Tarde’s, that, if the Past had not
                        left us engines and institutions for warfare, the reciprocal destruction of
                        national life and wealth would certainly never have originated in times as
                        comparatively rational as ours. These and similar attacks on various forms
                        of our smug moral callousness or vainglorious moral barbarism, are summed up
                        in a thought which recurs throughout Tolstoi’s works, beginning with his
                        great novels:
                    “All this comes about, thanks solely to that social and administrative
                        machinery whose business it is to subdivide the responsibility for evil
                        done, in such fashion that no one should feel to what extent these acts are
                        contrary to his nature .... It is sufficient if a man free himself for
                            an instant from this tangled net, in order to see the things which are
                            contrary to his nature.”
                    That is exactly what Tolstoi does for us. His unsociable and sceptical
                        temper, his constitutional fault?finding, allow him to see, and to show us,
                        one of the  chief drawbacks (for every
                        moral machinery, every human or cosmic arrangement has its drawback) of that
                        normal automatic living from impulse to impulse, or, if you choose, from
                        hand to mouth, which secures the continuance and improvement of the race,
                        and, on the whole, the tolerable happiness of the individual. The question
                        “Why?” “To what purpose?” which becomes, in the case of some of Tolstoi’s
                        heroes and in his own, misery and paralysis when applied to the
                            totality of existence itself, is salutary when we apply it
                        every now and then to the detail of life. For it is then no longer: “What is
                        the use of my being alive?” but the wholly different query: “Why, being
                        alive, being what I am and wishing in a given way, am I nevertheless acting
                        in this other way, which is inconsistent with my general life, personality
                        and wishes?”
                    Yes; there is need of such occasional scattering of our best?established
                        habits and most necessary shams and shibboleths. Nietzsche is right in
                        asking for a constant “revaluing of all standards of value.” Only—what
                        Nietzsche did not guess, and the world does not recognise—such has been the
                        mission not of Epicureans and Cynics (falling in, as they do, with everyday
                        habits), but of the far more ruthless, because more mono?ideistic and more
                        unpractical, destructiveness of the prophets of asceticism.
                    Moreover, apart from its constant criticism of moral routine and its
                        indefatigable exposure of perfunctoriness and hypocrisy, apart from its
                        negative merit in demolishing so many cherished vital lies, and
                        making the individual soul stand without shelter from the lightnings and the
                        whirlwinds of the spiritual heavens; apart
                        from its great functions of destruction (bringing, in Christ’s words, “not
                        peace, but a sword”), all progress owes a deep debt to asceticism of every
                        denomination. For asceticism has given success to unworldliness, and made
                        modesty and scrupulousness illustrious. The adoration of the
                            saint, the triumphant enshrining of his poor bones, has
                        been a salutary practice; since, even if that saint’s virtues were mistaken,
                        it was the desire for virtue, for acceptableness in God’s eyes, which made
                        him glorious in the eyes of men. It has been a help to progress that
                        sanctity could compensate for poverty and weakness—nay, that poverty and
                        weakness should have their disgrace removed; and more particularly in times
                        when poverty was as often the result of one’s neighbour’s unscrupulousness
                        as of one’s own lack of initiative; and weakness was better for others than
                        being a ruffian.
                    The school which has arisen in violent antagonism to ascetic self?denial,
                        that of Nietzsche and the “Will to Power,” bred, as it is, in times of
                        comparative liberty and safety for the individual, has overlooked the fact
                        that, in the past, a handful of stupid roughs, or the caprice of a delirious
                        crowned degenerate, could in ten minutes destroy the results of years and
                        years of industry, ingenuity, self?command, in fact, of every combination of
                        intellectual, moral and physical efficiency. In such a past,—and it is still
                        at our door (I write within a week of the suppression of the St. Petersburg
                        rising)—the saint is the necessary corrective, in mankind’s judgment, for
                        the atrocious success of the violent man or the intriguer. And, so long as
                        we continue abetting success which is obtained  to the detriment of others, so long shall we
                        require the worship of the saint as such. Asceticism is the inevitable
                        outcome, because it is the natural corrective, of moral callousness. And, so
                        long as the market and the home are no better than they are, we shall
                        require to retire now and again into a church—built, if not of stone, then
                        of reverent thoughts—in commemoration of some just, and gentle and austere
                        man. Nay, we shall require to feel at times the impulse to
                        self?chastisement, self?abasement and self?mutilation, so long as our daily
                        life remains as thoughtless, mean, grasping and bestial as it often is.
                    And herein lies the secret of Tolstoi, as of all ascetics and prophets: of
                        his exaggerations, his absurdities, his—let us call them by their rightful
                        name—ravings; and of our listening, and feeling that we are right in
                        listening, to them.
                    The destructiveness of asceticism is blind and excessive; it behoves our
                        spiritual activity and discipline to make use of this dangerous moral force,
                        as of any of the other forces of nature, bidding it work for our benefit and
                        not to our hurt. But, even while we remain unable to direct it to our
                        purposes, this disruptive energy of asceticism and prophecy is one of the
                        necessary purifiers of our stagnating souls. It is good to be asked, “To
                        what purpose?” by a Tolstoi, although our answer may differ so widely from
                        the one he preaches.
                
            
            
            
                TOLSTOI ON ART
                
                TOLSTOI ON ART
                LEO TOLSTOI’S recent volume on Art closes significantly the series of
                    his arraignments of what we have been pleased to call civilisation. Like all his
                    later works, whether treatise or play or novel or parable, this volume on art
                    shows Tolstoi in his character of lay prophet, with all its powers and all its
                    weaknesses. For it would seem—we notice it in two other great lay prophets,
                    Carlyle and Ruskin—that the gift of seeing through the accepted falsehoods of
                    the present, and foretelling the improbable realities of the future, can arise
                    only in creatures too far overpowered by their own magnificent nature to
                    understand other men’s ways of being and thinking; in minds so bent upon how
                    things should be as to lose sight of how things are and how things came to be.
                    While Carlyle, embodying his passionate instincts in historical narrative, was
                    moderated at least by his knowledge of the past and of the consequent origin and
                    necessity of the present; while Ruskin, accepting the whole moral and religious
                    training of his times, was in so far in touch with his contemporaries; Tolstoi
                    has broken equally with everything, if ever he had really much to break with.
                    Destitute of all historic sense, impervious to any form of science, and
                    accepting  the Gospel only as the nominal text
                    for a religion of his own making, he has become incapable of admitting more than
                    one side to any question, more than one solution to any difficulty, more than
                    one factor in any phenomenon. He is destitute of all sense of cause and effect,
                    all acquiescence in necessity, and all real trustfulness in the ways of the
                    universe. For him most things are wrong, wholly, utterly wrong; their wrongness
                    has never originated in any right, and never will be transformed into right
                    until—well, until mankind be converted to Tolstoi’s theory and practice.
                    Economic and domestic arrangements, laws, politics, religion, all wrong; and
                    now, art also.
                Unreasonableness like this is contagious, and Tolstoi’s criticisms have often
                    been dismissed as utterly wrongheaded. But we should not forego the benefits
                    which the prophetic gift can bring us, if only we know how to extract them. We
                    should endeavour to eliminate the hallucinations which usually accompany such
                    penetrating moral insight, and to apply some of this vast spiritual energy with
                    more discrimination than was compatible with its violent and almost tragic
                    production. The use of a genius like Tolstoi’s is to show us in what particulars
                    human institutions, habits, and thoughts are morally wrong; it is for us to find
                    out what his very prophet’s onesidedness prevents his doing—the rational
                    explanation of this wrongness.
                With regard to art, Tolstoi’s opinion of its moral wrongness can be analysed into
                    two very separate and independent views. Art, as practised and conceived in our
                    times, is immoral, according to Tolstoi, first: because it fails to accomplish its only legitimate mission of directly
                    increasing the instincts of justice, pity, and self?renunciation; and secondly:
                    because any mission, good or bad, which it does fulfil is limited to a very
                    small fraction of mankind. In other words, according to Tolstoi, art is a
                    useless, often a corrupting, luxury; and a luxury of that minority which already
                    enjoys more luxuries than are compatible with the material welfare of the rest
                    of the world and with its own spiritual advantage.
                The two propositions must be taken separately for examination in the light of
                    certain sciences which, alas, Tolstoi condemns outright as themselves useless,
                    mendacious, and corrupting. Now this condemnation by Tolstoi of all science,
                    this misconception of the very nature of science, will help us to a rapid
                    understanding of one half of his condemnation of art—its condemnation as morally
                    useless. There is not enough justice or sympathy, not enough purity, endurance,
                    or self?renunciation in the world—that is the gospel Tolstoi has to preach; and,
                    with prophetic onesidedness, he condemns everything which does not directly and
                    obviously increase these virtues. So long as it is neither unjust nor cruel nor
                    rapacious nor impure, it matters nothing to Tolstoi whether life be varied or
                    monotonous, elastic and adaptive or narrow and unadaptive, lucid or dull,
                    enterprising or stagnant, complete or mutilated, pleasant or devoid of pleasure;
                    it never occurs to him that in the great organic give?and?take, those very
                    qualities which he so exclusively desires depend for their existence on the
                    fulness and energy of every side of human existence. Tolstoi wants  virtue, and only virtue, dominant, exclusive; and he
                    thinks that virtue can be got independent of everything else, perfect and
                    instantaneous. Hence he naturally disdains mere intellectual activity, and
                    misunderstands the object of all science.
                “The important and suitable object of human science,” he writes explicitly,
                    “ought not to be the learning of those things which happen to be interesting:
                    but the learning of the manner in which we should direct our lives: the learning
                    of those religious, moral, and social truths without which all our so?called
                    knowledge of nature must be either useless or fatal.” Hence, practically, no
                    science; for Tolstoi’s definition of a moral or social truth is not a moral or
                    social fact or generalisation, but simply a precept for conduct; truth, in his
                    special vocabulary, means no longer the faithful presentation of what is, but
                    unflinching insistence on what ought to be. As with science, so with art.
                “The religious consciousness of our time consists, speaking generally, in the
                    recognition that our happiness, material and spiritual, individual and
                    collective, momentary and permanent, consists in the brotherhood of all men, in
                    our union for a life in common ... and those works of art only should be
                    esteemed and encouraged which grow out of the religion of our day, whereas all
                    works of art contrary to this religion should be condemned, and all the rest of
                    art treated with indifference.”
                Like science, therefore, art is set by Tolstoi to enforce virtue, not, as he
                    orders science, by precepts, but by embodying and communicating such emotion as conduces directly to greater morality; no
                    reference being made, in this case either, to the fact that virtue cannot long
                    exist save in a many?sided, energetic, and harmonious life, of which the impulse
                    to art, like the impulse to science, is an essential element. On these
                    principles, “art,” continues Tolstoi, “should always be valued according to its
                    contents,” that is to say, according to the definite moral example which it
                    exhibits, or the definite moral emotion—chiefly pity, of course—which it
                    awakens. The practical result is the banishing, as no longer consonant with our
                    moral purposes, of nearly all the art of former times, including Antiquity and
                    the Middle Ages; and the absolute condemnation of more than two?thirds of all
                    modern art, including not merely Wagner, Impressionism, Symbolism,
                    Pre?Raphaelitism, but all Tolstoi’s earlier work— “Anna Karenina” and “War and
                    Peace”—nearly all of Goethe’s, and, after minute examination, even the “Ninth
                    Symphony.” There remain, besides the Gospels, the more obviously moralising
                    works of Victor Hugo and of Dickens, “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and whatever painting,
                    sculpture, and music may be discovered having a moral purpose as definite and
                    unmistakable as these.
                This statement is crude, and Tolstoi’s plea, judging from it, would seem to be
                    mere fanatical dogmatism. But this is far from being the case: Tolstoi is
                    learned and is subtle, and twists facts powerfully to suit his views. Tolstoi
                    has read, or caused to be examined for his benefit, almost everything that ever
                    has been written on the nature and aims of art; and, in a chapter where profound
                    lack of sympathy is thinly disguised as
                    intellectual impartiality, he has reviewed and dismissed every theory of art
                    which differs from his own. The science of æsthetics, necessarily dependent as
                    it is upon psychology, sociology, and anthropology, all as yet imperfect, is in
                    a backward state; and an immense proportion of the “philosophy of art” is either
                    pure metaphysics, scornful of concrete fact, or mere polemic founded on the
                    practice of one school or period. This backward state of æsthetics has rendered
                    it, from Plato to Spencer, and from Ruskin to Whistler, the happy hunting ground
                    of every philosopher lacking the experience of art, and of every art connoisseur
                    lacking the habit of philosophy; and has given Tolstoi the immense advantage of
                    finding not merely a marvellous amount of foolish utterance to scoff at, but,
                    what is more to his purpose, a mutual contradiction between all the main
                    theories. All philosophers, Tolstoi is able to tell us, have insisted on the
                    extreme nobility of art, and a great many have dogmatised about beauty being
                    art’s special object; but there is not one single intelligible account of
                    beauty, and there are three or four conflicting main definitions of art; a proof
                    that, as Tolstoi has so often proclaimed, all science and all philosophy are
                    worthless, and that art can have no legitimate object save the moral one which
                    he assigns to it. But it happens that even nowadays the psychological and
                    historical treatment of æsthetics is beginning to put order and lucidity into
                    the subject, and to reconcile while it explains the conflict in all previous
                    views. It is in the light of such science, however much despised by Tolstoi,
                    that we shall attempt to show that art, like 
                    science itself, like philosophy, like every great healthy human activity, has a
                    right to live and a duty to fulfil, quite apart from any help it may contribute
                    to the enforcement of a moralist’s teachings.
                It is necessary to premise that, like nearly every other writer on æsthetics,
                    Tolstoi has needlessly complicated the question by considering literature as the
                    type of all other art. Now it is clear that literature, although in one capacity
                    an art as much as music or painting, is at the same time, and in varying degree,
                    a mode of merely imparting opinion or stirring up emotion, the instrument, not
                    merely of the artist, but of the thinker, the historian, the preacher, and the
                    pleader. This being the case, it is unfair to judge the question of art by the
                    whole practice of literature; it is necessary, on the contrary, so long as we
                    are dealing with æsthetics, to consider only those sides of literature in which
                    it resembles the other, more purely artistic, more typical arts. Putting
                    literature therefore aside, on account of the multiplicity of its appeals to
                    human interest, we shall find that, roughly speaking, while philosophers have
                    given to art one of two large functions, imitation or expression—and practical
                    craftsmen have inclined to judge of art as if its chief function were either
                    invention or execution, newness of construction or dexterity of handling—the
                    immense majority of art?loving mankind, including the philosophers and the
                    artists in their merely human capacity, have accepted or rejected, cherished or
                    neglected, single works of art, exactly in proportion as these works gave them
                    the particular kind of pleasure connected with the word beauty.
                        The meaning of this word
                        beauty it is difficult, and, in the present backward state of
                    æsthetic science, perhaps impossible, to define. It implies a relation between
                    certain visible or audible phenomena (and in literature certain still more
                    complex purely mental phenomena) and the spectator or listener; and the exact
                    nature of these visible or audible phenomena, which we objectify in the word
                        form, differs from art to art, from style to style, and from
                    individual work to individual work, there existing practically endless numbers
                    of ways of being beautiful—that is to say, of producing in the
                    human being the very specific emotion aroused by what we call
                        beauty. What may be this common character of all these
                    different so?called beautiful visual or audible forms or patterns, is evidently
                    a question of psychological and, in part, of physiological science; and,
                    different as are the modes of action of different arts and different styles of
                    art, and deficient as is at present our analysis and observation of the modes of
                    influence of any of them, we may yet affirm with confidence that the progress of
                    science will one day explain that particular relation between certain visible
                    and audible forms and the human being which is brought about by what we call
                        beauty, as a relation involving, whatever its particular kind,
                    a general momentary advantage to the vital, nervous, mental, and bodily
                    conditions, and accompanied, as all beneficent conscious phenomena are, by the
                    condition called pleasure.
                To recapitulate: the quality called beauty, recognised in the most
                    various kinds and styles of art, marks the awakening of a specific sort of
                    pleasure, at present  neither analysable nor
                    explicable, but which, like all the other varieties of pleasure, can be
                    instantly identified, though not described, by any one who has experienced it.
                    But although it is this quality of beauty, this specific
                    pleasurable emotion connected with the word beautiful, which
                    practically decides the eventual acceptance or rejection of a work of art, yet
                    the theories connecting art with imitation and expression, with invention and
                    execution, represent also a large and important side of the question. For
                    history and anthropology point clearly to the fact that art very rarely
                    originates from a conscious desire for beauty, but that it arises out of the
                    practical requirements, material or spiritual—building, weaving, pottery, dress,
                    war, and ritual—of mankind, and out of a superabundance of the great primary
                    instincts of imitation and expression, of construction, invention, and
                    manipulation. These instincts, which are explicable only as immediate reactions
                    of the human organism upon its surroundings, have been carried by natural
                    selection to an intensity so considerable as often (in the case of children, for
                    instance) to surpass all practical requirements, so that they have to vent
                    themselves in that gratuitous exercise which has suggested to Mr. Spencer (as it
                    had done to Schiller) the notion that art was the result of special play
                        instincts. Play instincts, as such, there are probably none; but it
                    is certain that all art has arisen from the activity—whether utilitarian or
                    aimless—of the tendencies to imitate, to express, to invent, to construct, to
                    manipulate, and to perform. But what differentiates art from the mere practical
                    or aimless exercise of these impulses is the
                    fact that, in its case, these impulses have been controlled by that totally
                    different and specific instinct which demands that, useful or useless, the forms
                    presented to the mind through the eye and the ear should possess the absolutely
                    peculiar quality of beauty. That which has caused the imitation of
                    an object or the expression of an emotion to be respected after the utility
                    thereof has vanished or the impulse to imitate or express has died out; that
                    which has caused the shape of a building, the pattern of a stuff or a pot, the
                    movements of a dance, the picture of an object, to be desired for their own
                    sake, is the peculiar kind of pleasure which the quite unpractical, quite
                    disinterested contemplation of the object or pattern or representation or game
                    has been able to produce by virtue of its beauty. The instinct for beauty is
                    not, in all probability, one of the creative faculties of man. It does not set
                    people working, it does not drive them to construct, to imitate, or to express,
                    any more than the moral instinct sets people wishing and acting, or the logical
                    instinct sets them reasoning. It is, even more typically than the moral and
                    logical instincts, a categorical imperative, which imperiously
                    decides whether given forms are to be tolerated, cherished, or avoided.
                In thus recognising that the instinct for beauty is not a creative but a
                    regulative impulse of mankind, modern psychology, so far from diminishing its
                    importance, increases it enormously and explains it. For the very fact that the
                    instincts of expression and imitation, of construction, invention, manipulation,
                    and performance, have in all their most practical applications (in building,
                    clothing, fabrics of all sorts,  and every
                    kind of ritual) been so constantly interfered with, and in their play
                        capacity (save in children) been so utterly captured, by an instinct
                    so merely regulative as the instinct for beauty, proves, to any one accustomed
                    to modern scientific thought, that this mysterious, unaccountable, apparently
                    useless pleasure arising from certain form relations which we call
                        beautiful must eventually be explained and accounted for by
                    some deep?seated vital utility to the mind and the nervous system of the human
                    race. Therefore we would answer, not to Count Tolstoi, for whom all scientific
                    explanations are mere lumber, but to those readers of Tolstoi whom his arguments
                    may have shaken, first: that the apparent conflict in æsthetic theory represents
                    only the various factors of a complex problem; and secondly: that the constant
                    return to the belief that arcs eventual aim is to produce beauty, and even the
                    very mystery which at present surrounds this indefinable and as yet inexplicable
                    quality, go to prove that, in a world different from the monotonous ascetic,
                    unorganic world conceived by Tolstoi, in a world of life the most complex,
                    overflowing and organic—not merely negative moral virtue, but physical beauty,
                    as much as intellectual lucidity, is required, and, by the nature of things,
                    will eternally be required and produced.
                But Tolstoi’s plea against art is double, and we have so far disposed, even in
                    our own eyes, of only one of its halves. Even if the theory were right, the
                    practice would remain wrong, and could not be set right by any amount of
                    arguing. For, however beneficial the enjoyment of beauty, the benefit must be confined to the cases where the beauty is
                    actually enjoyed; and, however desirable a function art may fulfil in human
                    existence, the function is limited to the lives into which art does actually
                    enter. Now beauty, Tolstoi points out, even supposing it to exist, requires, in
                    nine?tenths of all art, a special training before it is so much as perceived;
                    and moreover, art of any kind, appreciated or not appreciated, does not (he
                    says) come near the existence of the immense majority of mankind, roughly
                    speaking, of all the classes who work with their hands. On the one hand, there
                    are galleries, exhibitions, and concerts where works of art are displayed and
                    performed which can give pleasure only after elaborate initiation; on the other
                    hand, there are millions of human beings who never come near a gallery, an
                    exhibition, or a concert room, because they have neither the money nor the
                    leisure to enter it. This being the case—and Tolstoi seems to us irrefutably
                    right in this matter so far at least as he is speaking of actualities, and not
                    of what is abstractly true or possible—it is mere nonsense and cant to talk of
                    the usefulness of art to mankind as a whole; and the only sincere statement is
                    that of the cynical and immoral persons who calmly admit that art is one of the
                    many luxuries of the rich and leisured minority, and is maintained for their
                    sole enjoyment (according to Tolstoi’s economics) by the labour of the poor and
                    overworked majority.
                In attempting to answer this second plea against art, we must again premise that
                    we can do so only with the aid of those psychological and historical sciences
                    which Tolstoi disdains like all others, and in the light more particularly of
                    that same critical knowledge of art  which he
                    denounces as a chief source of perversion in these matters. Let us begin with
                    the question of the necessity of training before artistic beauty can be enjoyed,
                    and with Tolstoi’s implied corollary that beauty which is not spontaneously
                    recognised cannot really respond to any deep?seated or indeed genuine demand of
                    human nature. One of Tolstoi’s chief instances in point is that of the modern
                    school of impressionist painters. He describes, without any exaggeration, the
                    hopeless mental confusion of an educated person on first being introduced to a
                    collection of impressionist pictures. We can all of us remember similar remarks
                    on dozens of similar occasions, and, if our memory is good, and we do not happen
                    to have been brought up in impressionist studios from our infancy, we can
                    probably also remember having said or thought the very same things ourselves:
                    the objects represented are in most cases not recognised, the drawing and
                    perspective seem utterly wrong, and the effects of colour and light the result
                    of something near akin to lunacy.
                Tolstoi’s description is perfectly accurate, but his deductions are
                    unwarrantable, for what he has not seen is that impressionist painters represent
                    the most advanced section of a school of painting which has broken with all past
                    tradition and which is avowedly seeking to represent effects of perspective, or
                    colour, and of light which have never been attempted before, and to do so in
                    reference to subjects—casually chosen pieces of landscape, for instance—which
                    have hitherto been disdained, and in disregard of all the established tenets of
                    symmetrical composition. Now the most 
                    advanced art of any age, like the most advanced thought of any age, is really
                    not for the period which produces it, but for the next, whether that
                        next come within two years or within twenty or a hundred years;
                    and the art of a class, like the mode of dress and speech of a class, takes time
                    to descend to the classes below. From the nature of things no novelty can arise
                    save in a comparatively small circle, originally in the small circle of an
                    artistic school, or even in the mind of one individual artist. We cannot feel
                    the beauty of an artistic form which we do not really see, any more than we can
                    feel the cogency of an argument we do not really follow; and the act of
                    perception is not any simpler or more rapid or spontaneous than the act of
                    intellectual apprehension. We do not see an unfamiliar pattern, we do not hear
                    an unusual combination of sounds, with the rapidity and completeness given by
                    habit and by expectation. The enjoyment of the quality called
                        beauty is the enjoyment of a certain set of visible or audible
                    relations, and these relations are by no means taken in immediately. The emotion
                    of æsthetic pleasure can take place only when any given kind of artistic form
                    has been assimilated by the mind; and the possibility, the mode, of assimilation
                    is handed on by imitation from the more prepared individual to the less
                    prepared; while, on the other hand, each new form, like each new thought, is
                    assimilated in proportion as it resembles an already familiar one. Every new
                    work of art, nay, every form of which a whole work of art consists, is different
                    from all its predecessors, at least in its combinations; it is a new individual,
                    which we get to know at first by what it has
                    in common with previous individuals of the same class. The new picture or poem
                    or song, which we see or read or hear for the first time, represents a mental,
                    æsthetic, emotional step made by us; it means an alteration, great or small, of
                    attitude, like that produced by a new logical proposition, even if the new
                    picture or poem or song be as closely connected with a previous one as a new
                    proposition of Euclid is with earlier propositions. To expect a person totally
                    unfamiliar with all similar art to comprehend, to see, let alone to
                    enjoy, an impressionist picture, is like expecting a person, who is familiar
                    with nothing beyond a rule?of?three sum, to follow some new problem of the
                    higher mathematics.
                Such facts and principles as these have never occurred to Tolstoi. He has never
                    conceived the human faculties as being in a state of constant alteration and
                    evolution; he does not recognise that what we find established and apparently
                    spontaneous in the present has been brought about by the adjustments and the
                    efforts of the past; and he mistakes for innate tendencies what in reality are
                    the result of long unconscious or conscious training. “The majority of men,” he
                    says, “has always understood all that we consider as the highest art: the book
                    of Genesis, the parables of the Gospels, and the various popular legends,
                    stories, and songs.” No doubt, the “majority of men” has understood them in
                    those countries and times in which they happen to have been familiar. But would
                    the opening chapters of Genesis be more comprehensible to a person brought up
                    entirely out of touch with Christianity or Judaism than the Prologue in
                        Heaven of “Faust”? Would the intricate
                    forms and special allusions of the north?country ballad, of the Tuscan lyric or
                    the Spanish song, be more intelligible to a person totally unacquainted with
                    anything of the kind than “Sister Helen,” or a “Sonnet from the Portuguese,” or
                    Verlaine’s “Clair de Lune”? What Tolstoi mistakes for a naturally, inevitably
                    intelligible and enjoyable character in art is in reality an affinity, a
                    resemblance, with forms of art already familiar. We are now beginning to see in
                    what way all artistic enjoyment can require a degree of previous training, and
                    yet be, to all appearance, absolutely spontaneous. For just as a capacity to
                    appreciate the new grows insensibly out of familiarity with the old, so also
                    does a new form of art, under normal conditions, grow out of an old form by a
                    series of alterations very gentle and easy to follow, although their extremes
                    may represent styles of art as utterly unlike as the music of Wagner and the
                    music of Mozart, or may be as far apart as the pointed architecture of the
                    thirteenth century and the round?arched architecture of the fifth, from which it
                    undoubtedly sprang; a process which we can realise if we remember that although
                    Latin is no longer intelligible to an uneducated Frenchman or Italian, yet there
                    could never have been a moment of non?comprehension during the centuries which
                    evolved the modern languages from the ancient one.
                But mere gradual evolution would not be sufficient to explain the insensible
                    training which has made the appreciation of various artistic forms apparently
                    spontaneous. The art, whatever it might be, was not only absolutely continuous,
                    but widely diffused. We must  here remember
                    what we before pointed out, that the desire for beauty is a regulative function,
                    and that it imposes its preferences upon the expressive and imitative impulses,
                    the activities of invention, construction, and execution which mankind displays
                    for practical purposes or as a mere pastime. Hence, in times which are normal,
                    any artistic form is found—and all art?history is there to prove it—not merely
                    in those very conspicuous and developed branches which we think of more
                    particularly as art, but in every form of cognate craft. The
                    language and the allusions employed by even so learned and artificial a poet as
                    Dante were the language and allusions of the least cultivated of his
                    contemporaries, to the extent of making his poem the favourite reading of
                    artisans and peasants. The forms, the modelling, the anatomy, the essential ways
                    of being of line and surface in Greek sculpture can be recognised, to a greater
                    or less degree, in the commonest Greek pottery, bronze work, cheap domestic
                    ornaments, and so forth; the very special forms, so difficult to imitate, and
                    even to grasp after much study, of what we call Gothic, appear in the very
                    humblest building, in every chair, table, embroidery, or piece of iron?work of
                    the later Middle Ages; while the modulations and rhythms, and in great part the
                    harmonies, of every past form of music have always been common to the most
                    humble and to the highest categories of the art: the lower, like the more
                    provincial branches of art, according to the law of imitation we have before
                    alluded to, being always just a little behind the work of the creative masters
                    in the highest branches and in the greatest centres. This universal diffusion of
                    a given fashion in art—fashion  in dress is
                    perhaps the only modern representative of this state of things—explains how a
                    whole population could be, so to speak, constantly in presence of any given
                    style of art, and able gradually to appreciate its variations without any
                    apparent previous training. The mediæval artisan was as able to appreciate the
                    most far?fetched and subtle of all forms of art, the Gothic—and for the same
                    reason—as the modern Japanese of the lower class is able to appreciate
                    peculiarities of perspective, of form, and of execution which strike even the
                    educated European as exotic, and which cannot be enjoyed by him without some
                    special study.
                This, as we have remarked, is the state of affairs in normal times;
                    for we must be careful to underline this qualification. Tolstoi, with his
                    deficient historical sense, and his tendency to believe in an unvarying typical
                    man (more or less represented by the Russian peasant of to?day), has not
                    recognised the prevalence of this normal condition throughout the past, nor, of
                    course, the reasons through which, as Mr. Ruskin taught some forty years ago,
                    this normal condition has become more and more exceptional in the present. It
                    is, however, easy to understand why our century, with its quite unparalleled
                    rapidity and complexity of change, must differ in this respect from all others.
                    As regards the continuity of artistic development, there have been and still are
                    two notable causes of disturbance: the opening up of foreign civilisations and
                    the importation of exotic kinds of art (like that of Japan), and the
                    archæological revival of the art of the past, for instance, the Greek and the
                    Gothic. From these have resulted both an
                    impulse of imitation and an effort after novelty, the latter due both to
                    facility of new combinations and to resistance against foreign or historical
                    influence. Now an art which, like that of Burne?Jones or of Whistler, is half
                    archæological or half exotic, cannot possibly be appreciated without some degree
                    of familiarity with the Mediæval or the Japanese art from which it has partly
                    sprung; while, on the other hand, an art like that of Manet, 
                        Monnet
                        Monet
                    
                There is in the art of this century a degree of individualism, an amount of
                    archæological and exotic research, an obvious desire for novelty at any price,
                    which renders it less organic, less natural, than the art of past times. The
                    result is that its appreciation is no longer attainable by the unconscious
                    training which is conferred by familiarity with previous art, and demands
                    special initiation through critical study. Among our contemporaries it is a
                    matter of everyday experience to find persons extremely appreciative of Greek or
                    Gothic art who yet, like Mr. Ruskin, can see absolutely nothing in the art of
                    modern France; while there are practical artists who can see absolutely nothing
                    save archaic quaintness in the art of Antiquity and of the Renaissance; to such
                    an extent are the perception and enjoyment of one kind of form impeded by the
                    habit and preoccupation of another. Such being the case with the artistic
                    classes themselves, how much more must it be the case with the general public!
                    And from this general public we are obliged in
                    our century to exclude completely the enormous majority of mankind
                        .
                        
                     Tolstoi has not exaggerated matters in saying that barely one man in a
                    hundred comes nowadays within reach of art, appreciated or unappreciated. For
                    here we find ourselves in presence of the other and far greater difference which
                    separates the æsthetic conditions of our century from those of every previous
                    one. The industrial and economic changes accompanying the development of
                    machinery have virtually, as Mr. Ruskin pointed out, put an end for the moment
                    to all that handicraft which formed the fringe of the artistic activity of the
                    past, and which kept the less favoured classes in such contact with the artistic
                    forms of their time and country that, for instance, the pottery and brass?work
                    of the humbler classes of Greece, and the wood?work and textile fabrics of the
                    poorest citizens of the Middle Ages, let alone every kind of domestic
                    architecture, afforded sufficient preparation for the greatest art of temples
                    and cathedrals: a daily, hourly preparation, embodying in many cases actual
                    mechanical familiarity. Nowadays, on the contrary, objects of utility,
                    machine?made, and no longer expressive of any preferences, are either totally
                    without æsthetic quality, or embody, in a perfunctory and imperfect manner, the
                    superficial and changing æsthetic fashions of a very small minority. Nor is this
                    all. The extreme rapidity of scientific discovery and mechanical invention, the
                    growing desire for technical education and hygienic advantage, the race for
                    material comfort and the struggles for intellectual and social equality—in fact,
                    the whole immense movement of our times, both
                    for good and for evil—have steadily tended to make art less and less a reality
                    even in the lives of the leisured classes, and have resulted in virtually
                    effacing all vestige of it from the lives of working men.
                Art, therefore, we may concede to Tolstoi, is in our days largely artificial,
                    often unwholesome, always difficult of appreciation, and, above all, a luxury.
                    Violent and even fanatical as are Tolstoi’s words on this subject, they hardly
                    exaggerate the present wrongness of things.
                But we hope to have suggested in the course of these criticisms that the present
                    condition of art does not justify Tolstoi’s proposal that in the future art
                    should be reduced to being a mere adjunct of ethical education, or, failing
                    that, should be banished from the world as futile or degrading. In pointing out,
                    as we have done, the imperious nature of that desire for beauty which normally
                    regulates all the practical constructive energies of mankind, and subdues to its
                    purposes all human impulses to imitation and expression, imposing a how entirely
                    separate and sui generis; and in clearing up
                    that confusion among conflicting æsthetic theories of which Tolstoi has taken
                    such advantage, we have brought home, we hope, to the reader the presumption
                    that an instinct so special and so powerful must play some very important part
                    in the bodily and mental harmony of man. Further, while indicating the natural
                    mechanism by which, under normal circumstances, the appreciation and enjoyment
                    of artistic forms have kept pace with their changes, and familiarity with the
                    various kinds of beauty in the humblest and commonest objects of utility has rendered spontaneous the perception of
                    the same kinds of beauty in their higher, more complex, and less utilitarian
                    developments, we have shown that this special and imperious æsthetic craving has
                    created its own natural and universal modes of satisfaction. We have seen that
                    art, considered as the production of beautiful objects or arrangements, has been
                    spontaneously produced, spontaneously enjoyed, and universally diffused, in one
                    or other of its categories, throughout the whole of the past; and, having taken
                    notice of the disturbing influences which have interrupted this normal condition
                    of things in the present, we have shown reason to expect a return thereunto in
                    the future. The wrong condition of things with regard to art is the result of
                    other wrong conditions, intellectual, social, and economic, inevitable in a
                    period of excessive, complex, and, so to speak, compound, change; and as these
                    wrong conditions cannot fail to right themselves, the adjustment of the question
                    of art will follow as the result of other adjustments. In what precise manner
                    this may take place it would be presumptuous to forecast; but this much may be
                    affirmed, that the ascetic subordination of art to ethical teaching will play no
                    part in it. Imperfect, and even in some ways intolerable to our moral sense, as
                    is the present condition of art, as Tolstoi has victoriously demonstrated, let
                    those among us whom it offends reflect that even under such evident wrong
                    conditions it is not mere selfishness to preserve the art of the past and foster
                    the art of the present for the benefit of a more just and wholesome, a more
                    developed and more traditionally normal, future. Moreover art, like science and
                    like practical  well?being, will in the long
                    run take care of itself; because, despite Tolstoi’s statement to the contrary,
                    art, like morality itself, is necessary to mankind’s full and harmonious
                    life.
            
            
            
                NIETZSCHE AND THE “WILL TO POWER”
                
                NIETZSCHE AND THE “WILL TO POWER”
                
                    I
                    THE fact that Friedrich Nietzsche, when released from life at only
                        fifty?six, had already survived his reasonable soul by nearly eleven years,
                        disposes of his philosophy with miraculous satisfactoriness for some of his
                        opponents. But it is liable to make those feel almost abashed who do not
                        relish such cheap irony on the part of Fate.
                    I wish to make it plain, therefore, that, though the final catastrophe of
                        this great mind appears to me to have had constitutional causes and
                        preliminary symptoms which affected the doomed man’s manner of being and
                        therefore of thinking, yet it is my conviction that the psychological
                        interest and moral importance of what, following his own example, I venture
                        to designate as “the Case of Nietzsche” would have been quite as real,
                        though less vulgarly obvious, had it never been rounded off by so frightful
                        a logico?dramatic coincidence. If, therefore, I proceed to deal with
                        Nietzsche’s philosophy as the expression of spiritual and bodily
                        unhealthiness, let it be understood that I am referring only to the kind of
                            madness which Nietzsche’s Wise Man
                        prayed for—“Give me, ye Powers, madness, that I may believe in myself!”—and
                        not at all to the miserable obliteration of mind with which an atrocious and
                        stupid destiny was preparing to answer that prayer. For it is with this
                        “madness that he might believe in himself” that I intend to deal in the
                        following pages.
                    The soundest and, therefore, the most living and fertile part of a
                        philosopher’s work is, perhaps, that which makes him not unlike, but like,
                        his fellows; nay, the possibility of being assimilated by the future is, in
                        many cases, in direct proportion to the fact of having been assimilated from
                        the past. But my object, in the present study, has not been the extracting
                        of what I consider the most valuable productions of Nietzsche’s
                        extraordinary mind; all the various “selections, philosophies and
                        quintessences” of Nietzsche are amply sufficient in their unintentional
                        misrepresentation of him as a typically sane, sound and socially normal
                        thinker. My object has been, on the contrary, to collect into a synthetic
                        group (the synthesis representing Nietzsche’s individual temperament) those
                        peculiarities which differentiate him from nearly all other equally great
                        thinkers; peculiarities which bring him into conflict, not merely, as he
                        gloried in feeling, with the mental habits of hypocrites, Philistines and
                        decadents, but with the modes of thinking and feeling indispensable for the
                        continuance of the human race, and therefore deeply ingrained in the human
                        race’s composition. I desire, in short, to see what was at the bottom of
                        Nietzsche’s characteristic views of life,
                        in order to judge whether life is likely to cultivate or to weed out this
                        type of philosophy and this type of philosopher.
                
                
                    II
                    “There is no Will to Existence,” says Zarathustra; “for what does not yet
                        exist, cannot will; and, as to that which does exist, how could it possibly
                        will to exist?”
                    Besides a combination of a truism (“that which does not exist, cannot will”)
                        with an entirely unproven assumption (“that which does exist cannot will to
                        exist”), we have here a confusion between an abstract metaphorical statement
                        and an individual concrete fact. Philosophically speaking, no one has ever
                        attributed to the individual human being dominant, unfailing desire for
                        continued existence, so that its denial cannot be the core of Zarathustra’s
                        supreme discovery; and we must look for that in the denial of that
                        metaphorical Will under which the genius of Schopenhauer adumbrated the
                        great generalisations of modern biology. The necessity of growing,
                        reproducing, varying, adapting, of surviving at any price, this, and this
                        only, can be called the Will to Existence. But this is an abstraction, an
                        allegory, though a perfectly fitting one, and the Will to Existence can be
                        postulated, and has been postulated, only of that abstract and allegorical
                        entity, the Species. For this Will to Existence Nietzsche, in probably
                        conscious contradiction to his discarded master, Schopen? hauer, tries therefore to substitute a Will to
                        Power; and the form of speech renders such a substitution superficially
                        possible; Will is will, and you need only write “Power” after effacing
                        “Existence.” But this operation is a delusion or a piece of trickery, an
                        attempt at exchanging things which do not belong to the same category.
                        Looking at that abstraction called “the Species,” and expressing our
                        generalisations about it under the metaphorical form of Will, we are struck
                        immediately by the utter indifference manifested by the Species to any such
                        relation as is implied by the word “Power”; and by the metaphorical
                        readiness which the Species displays, on the contrary, for proceedings
                        absolutely negatived by the word “Power”: a readiness to alter, to dwindle,
                        to lie low, to degenerate, to submit to any tyranny, privation or parasitic
                        condition, or even to self?mutilation rather than allow itself to die.
                        Indeed, the survival through self?effacement, as distinguished from
                        self?assertion (and power implies self?assertion), is so frequent an
                        occurrence in the life of Species, that I cannot read Nietzsche’s
                        description of the methods towards survival attributed by him to primitive
                        Christian communities, without thinking of some naturalist’s account of a
                        sort of animal which, after living in decent independence on land or in
                        water, has got itself imprisoned, by the ruthless Will to Existence, in the
                        diseased body of some more powerful kind of creature. So that, if
                        Zarathustra meant to replace Schopenhauer’s great Will, the Will to
                        Existence, tingling (as we seem to feel it) throughout the universe, by his
                        more “vornehm” Will to Power, he must take back his remark; for Nature
                        cares nothing for his new scale of values.
                    Nor is this all. The Will to Power may and does exist as an individual
                        phenomenon. But (and here we begin our real examination of Nietzsche’s views
                        in reference to that very “Life,” which he thought he so aristocratically
                        accepted), whatever exists in the individual is, speaking metaphorically,
                        yet very correctly, subject to the Will of the Species; and the Will of the
                        Species is, as we have seen, the mere Will to Existence. Like any other
                        peculiarity, the Will to Power develops so long as it conduces to survival,
                        and atrophies to the extent to which it becomes a danger. The individual who
                        possesses it either flourishes and hands it on to his descendants and his
                        imitators, or comes to grief and carries the quality which has ruined him
                        into helplessness or annihilation.
                    Thus the Will to Existence, of which, as of all other divinities, the
                        exclusive pride of Nietzsche would not brook the reality, shows itself to be
                        a god of most ruthless practicality; and every other kind of volition, every
                        instinct, habit or tendency of living creatures, all the demiurgi, Olympian or subterranean, radiantly
                        conscious or obscurely and blindly teeming, can hold their way only at its
                        inexorable behest.
                    Translated into prosaic literalness, the question may therefore be stated as
                        follows: Does the predominance of self?consciousness and the assertion of
                        the ego, which, taken together, constitute Nietzsche’s Will to Power, offer
                        such advantages to the human race as to have fostered this Will to Power to
                        an exorbitant  degree in the past, or as
                        to foster it, so far as we can foresee, to still completer supremacy in the
                        future? We may get an approximate answer to this question in the course of
                        examining some of the mental and emotional tendencies and habits which
                        Nietzsche condemns in mankind, as the unworthy rivals to the Will to Power,
                        and perhaps arrive at some conclusion by subsequently glancing also at the
                        position which Nietzsche takes up towards life as a whole, that is to say,
                        towards that Will to Existence of which he so rudely denies the
                        existence.
                
                
                    III
                    First and foremost among the opponents to the Will to Power is what we may
                        roughly sum up as Duty. Conspicuous among the prophecies of Zarathustra are
                        those concerning the great Lion from out of the desert, who fights and
                        destroys the great Dragon whose wings are inscribed with commandments. “Thou
                        Shalt” is the name of the great Dragon, but the spirit of the Lion says, “I
                        Will.” While busy demolishing the Free Will of Christian and of Kantian
                        ethics, Nietzsche had himself made a superb demonstration of the fundamental
                        identity of that Lion “I Will” and that Dragon “Thou Shalt”; or, rather, he
                        had shown that neither the Lion nor the Dragon had any kind of real
                        existence. But, taken upon the plane of the illusion inevitable in our
                        feeling, such a seeming division and opposition between the inner and the
                        outer Will can and must be recognised; and
                        Nietzsche could legitimately split up the Chimæra, Free Will, into the
                        solitary, rebellious Lion and the obsequious, philistine Dragon. But, if we
                        are to discuss not the metaphysics of Free Will, but the phenomenon of
                        apparent alternative as manifest in experience, the question of Thou
                            Shalt and I Will takes a different aspect.
                    There is more than a rough and ready practicality (“pour encourager les autres,” like Voltaire’s court martial on
                        Admiral Byng)in the legal limitation of responsibility to such individuals
                        as are neither idiots nor maniacs. For, as the appearance of volition exists
                        only in the face of two conceivable modes of action, which imply
                        consciousness, there can be no will, no choice, in cases where the instincts
                        have the blind, automatic action of reflexes. There is, therefore, a greater
                        appearance of volition in obeying a law and conforming to a standard than in
                        acting under the undivided pressure of a habit or an appetite. Nietzsche was
                        thoroughly aware of all this, and had, moreover, the proud and combative and
                        self?centred man’s excessive and unphilosophical scorn for anything like
                        habits, blind instincts and reflexes. He therefore formulated (I was, going
                        to write: “he was therefore obliged to formulate,” but these
                        are words he never would have admitted with reference to himself) something
                        opposed to obscure instinctive preferences, but opposed also to all
                        categorical imperatives: an individual standard and law (including pretended
                        subversion of all previous standards and laws), a private categorical
                        imperative so rigid that slavery, degradation, Dantesque dung?ponds of
                            igno? miny, were the ineluctable
                        punishment of their non?recognition; let alone, of course, a fine
                        preliminary bout of Zarathustrian philosophising on them “with the
                        hammer.”
                    Thus Nietzsche was never able to carry his individualism (as his predecessor
                        Stirner had done) to its logical conclusion of anarchy inside as well as
                        outside the individual. He committed the inconsequence (to which we owe some
                        of his most beautiful and perhaps immortal sentences) of preaching the most
                        rigorous hierarchy, and hierarchic commanding and obeying, within the soul
                        of the lawbreaker himself. I call this an inconsequence, and hope to
                        demonstrate that it was one; fruitful, moreover, like many of the
                        inconsequences of one?sided thinkers. Nietzsche, of course, asserted that
                        this régime of categorical imperatives was the outcome, solely, of the
                        individual himself; and that the Zarathustrian person (to say nothing of the
                        eventually coming “Uber?Mensch”) went through this noviciate of
                        purifications, professed this rule of vigils and chastenings
                        (so singular in a theoretic opponent of asceticism), for the simple
                        gratification of his own fine gentleman’s taste. But, if we
                        look at facts, this superlative Zarathustrian “good form” (for as such this
                        moral Beau Brummel gives it us) is, like every other kind of good
                            form, a product for which no isolated individuality could
                        suffice, and for which no pressure of merely individual preference could
                        originally account. It is essentially an historical, sociological product.
                        Intent upon his own moral posturings and gestures (in which the old Stoical
                        mantle, and even sundry Christian academic properties, were unconsciously made use of), Nietzsche found
                        it convenient to take for granted the ready?made Zarathustrian individual,
                        attitudes, gestures, good taste and all; and therefore averted his glance
                        from the genesis and evolution thereof. For, in that genesis and evolution
                        of Zarathustra’s “good taste,” the principal part had been played throughout
                        the centuries by that which Nietzsche most furiously disliked (reserving it
                        to explain only the Socratic, Christian, Kantian, or other unclean
                        spirits)—namely, the race at large, the instincts, claims and habits of the
                        majority of human beings so utterly offensive to Nietzsche’s sense of smell
                        and somewhat queasy stomach. And, in a way, Nietzsche actually placed
                        himself in the impossibility of denying such villainous origin, which a
                        thoroughpaced anarchic thinker like Stirner would have made short work of,
                        together with formulas, standards, and good taste of any kind. Nietzsche, as
                        was inevitable in one who frankly objected to gods of all sorts—because, “if
                        there were gods, how could he have endured not being one of
                        them,”—Nietzsche, filling up his own horizon, had pretty well sent Nature
                        (and the Will to Existence) to the Coventry of the Lucretian gods, and very
                        rarely referred to her or it. But the possession of the finest taste
                        unfortunately requires, not merely recognition, but a standard; and thus the
                        isolated superfine individual was betrayed into calling on Nature’s
                        testimony to the correctness of his moral attitude and manner. “All the
                        audacity, the fineness and keenness that have ever existed,” he writes, “all
                        the masterly certainty and dancelike spirit, have developed themselves, thanks to the tyranny of
                        such self?imposed law (Willkür?Gesetze),
                        and it is by no means improbable that just this, and not a system of
                            laissez?aller, is nature
                        and natural.” Nietzsche did not know how large a door he was
                        opening in this second part of the sentence: a door, a gate, through which
                        what should sweep in but that deposed, rejected, utterly banished Will to
                        Existence? For, if the individual has not grown as a mere random jumble of
                        uncoordinated instincts, this is explained by his not existing as an
                        isolated individual, companionless, in
                            vacuo. Man is, more or less, a composite and orderly whole
                        because he is an integral part of a whole which can be only composite and
                        orderly. Naturalness, which Nietzsche invoked as a final
                        condemnation of spiritual anarchy, is merely a word for suitability to the
                        ways of other things, adaptation to that great abstract whole which allows
                        insubordinate doings neither in single individuals nor in single instincts.
                        The law?to?himself of the finer human being is the expression
                        of a more perfect and well?nigh automatic adaptation to the hierarchy
                        outside. Nay, far below the sphere of such ethical good form, we find
                        concentric circles of inner coordination, without which we could not move,
                        stand, digest or grow, let alone perceive, feel, think or will. But if there
                        did not exist, if there had not existed for æons, creatures more or less
                        similar around us, if the universe had cared to produce only isolated higher
                        individuals, or Super?Men, would there have been a need for such a complex
                        form of life; a need for reactions, so intricate and so subordinate to one
                        another; a need for perception, will  or
                        thought; an opening, so to speak, for such superfine moral manners?
                
                
                    IV
                    After the great Dragon, Duty, let us pass on to the consideration of what
                        Nietzsche regards as the vilest of all small moral worms: Humility. The word
                        “worm” is appropriate; for Nietzsche derives its origin from the practical
                        wisdom of rolling up and shamming death in order to avoid a second crushing.
                        Granted, as is very possible, that such is its real genealogy, there comes
                        the question, why Nature (for even Nietzsche has unwillingly to admit that
                        there is Nature) should have preserved this particular ditch?begotten little
                        virtue? The answer is, simply, that Humility happens to afford an excellent
                        corrective for a particular optical illusion to which the human being,
                        Mensch or Über?Mensch, is condemned (with danger to his comfort and even his
                        existence), by a trifling peculiarity of his constitution. I am alluding, of
                        course, to the fact that we, all of us, happen to be enclosed in our own
                        skin, and are therefore aware of our own existence in a more direct,
                        intimate and forcible manner than of the existence of others. Those others,
                        meanwhile, similarly enclosed, are afflicted by the selfsame unevenness of
                        perception: the inside, namely, oneself, is thoroughly visible, audible,
                        intelligible and imperative; the outside, or not?oneself, becomes an
                        accessory or background, and tends perpetually to vanish altogether. The
                        virtue or vice of Humility serves to reverse, in part, this natural, but by
                        no means objectively correct, perspective;
                        and thereby tends to diminish the wear and tear, nay, the sometimes fatal
                        accidents, which it must otherwise occasion. The fact of being what
                        house?agents call “self?containing,” makes us, each and all, the most
                        important thing we can conceive. Humility whispers that, on the contrary, we
                        are very probably by far the most unimportant thing in all the universe, and
                        thereby halves our natural pretensions to something nearer our objective
                        bulk and power. In this manner it enables us to find room to stand in, to
                        thread our way among those too?too solid ghosts, our fellow men, to exchange
                        place, to move, to expand even—in short, to live. This is the service
                        rendered by Humility, and this is why Humility has been fostered by the
                        racial Will to Existence, by the great demiurgus, Life, who shuts his eyes to baseness of origin and
                        primæval worm?wriggling; Life, well aware that, if the haughty genealogist
                        went far enough in his researches, he would find wrigglings of some kind,
                        and animals less aristocratic than worms, in the first chapter of the most
                        distinguished family histories.
                    The reason why Life can be less squeamish than Nietzsche, and yet, somehow,
                        maintain a certain æsthetic dignity and have as grand an air as any
                        Zarathustra brandishing his Will to Power, is that Life possesses the secret
                        of great transmutations, transfigurations, of which Nietzsche gradually lost
                        the very conception. After Humility, Compassion is, in his eyes, the vilest
                        and most vicious of Christian virtues. Sickness, weakness, says Nietzsche,
                        requires only one thing—to be cleared away. That depends, common sense has answered for centuries, in fact
                        for æons, how sick the sick, how weak the weak. It is the strength of the
                        weak man, the healthiness of the organs still free from disease, to which
                        Compassion addresses itself, and which, with help and time, effects survival
                        and recovery. Nay, what we look upon as symptoms of disease, or as faintings
                        and failings of weakness, are frequently, in the moral order as well as the
                        bodily, adaptations to a difficult crisis, diminished claims, nay, even
                        inverted instincts, fostered by the great Will to Existence. Take the
                        “Imitation of Christ,” that almost complete, perhaps because almost
                        posthumous, manifesto of the millenarian and ascetic and self?humiliating
                        sides of Christianity. To us, particularly to us when in health and
                        prosperity, it may have a taste which is mawkish, a taste of physic, if not
                        of poison; but for centuries it was, and in individual cases (till wisdom
                        and gentleness invent a better compound) it still remains a pain?killer, a
                        sleeping draught which has saved from death or from madness. Christianity as
                        defined by Nietzsche—that is to say, Christianity in its most questionable
                        and perishable aspect—constituted, after all, only one of the many modus vivendi which the race made for itself at
                        various stages of its difficult existence: regimens of brutality and
                        narrow?mindedness or of self?suppression and mystic stultification, Spartan,
                        early Aryan, early Hebraic, Buddhist, Christian—all representing a
                        mutilation or a narcotising of some one of the soul’s possibilities; each of
                        them furnishing, in its turn, a balance of desirable effects over effects
                        undesirable or actually pernicious. Looked at dispassionately, there is no grosser falsehood in the notion
                        that the individual ego is necessarily sinful, than in the notion that the
                        individual tribe or cast or race is necessarily impeccable; nor is it more
                        lop?sided to give unto others what would be best employed by oneself, than
                        to take away from others what might best be employed by them. Indeed, one
                        may ask oneself whether Tolstoi, let us say, is really less of a human
                        being, if he is really more warped and maimed, more of a cripple and a
                        monster than—well, than Nietzsche.
                
                
                    V
                    Let us leave the ground of human duty and virtue, and pass on, “Beyond Good
                        and Evil,” to that which Nietzsche considered the only real one: the ground
                        of human greatness. What did Nietzsche make of the Human Work? The
                            work, which is the test and the reason of Carlyle’s Hero
                        and of Renan’s Prospero?Sage, had no intrinsic interest in Nietzsche’s eyes,
                        no place in his philosophy. Its importance for him was merely as an
                        expression of what he very erroneously took it to be, the outcome of an
                        individual temperament, the manifestation of a Will to Power. Now, Nietzsche
                        did not really want any Will to Power except his own, and he had a
                        positively morbid dislike to coming in contact with other people’s
                        temperament. It is understating the case to say that nineteen out of every
                        twenty references he makes to the work of other men are expressions of
                        aversion, contempt or disgust: and it is no mere coincidence that his ideal,
                        Zarathustra, in all we are told about his life, preaches, reviles, laughs, dances, nay, even lets himself
                        once or twice be lured into the deadly sin of pity, but on no single
                        occasion extracts pleasure or profit from any other human being or any human
                        being’s work. The assimilation of other men’s greatness, the enriching
                        oneself by appreciation, is never mentioned as part of the processes of
                        growth of the great man, of the Super?Man. His relations, when not of scorn
                        and destruction, are entirely confined to his own solitary person; he
                        develops merely by wrestling with himself and by expressing himself; he
                        remains (even if multiplied to a possible race of Super?Men) not merely
                        isolated and solitary, but virtually alone in the universe; a colossal
                        Michelangelesque figure, with immense sinews and rather academic draperies,
                        filling up a narrow background entirely devoid of vegetation, houses, or any
                        incident except two or three symbolical animals; he stands or, as Nietzsche
                        represents him, he dances, in a dignified manner though a dreary one; and,
                        when he is not inveighing against the sickening peculiarities of the human
                        race he has turned his back upon, he is engaged in the one act for which he
                        specially exists. The Super?Man says “‘Yes’ to life.” But, before inquiring
                        into the precise nature of this “‘Yes’ to life,” let us forestall all
                        possibility of its being mistaken for any kind of philosophic or poetical
                        act of contemplation of life’s loveliness or mystery. The more so that we
                        shall incidentally gain some further, and some terribly significant, insight
                        into the temperament with which Nietzsche himself had to face life. Here is
                        his “genesis” of the Vita
                        Contemplativa:
                    
                    “In primitive times, the individual, conscious of his own strength, is busy
                        translating his feelings and thoughts (Vorstellungen) into acts, as in hunting, robbing, aggression,
                        ill?usage and murder, without counting such fainter imitations of such
                        proceedings as he finds tolerated within his own community.” (Here I must
                        open a parenthesis to remark upon the utter overlooking by Nietzsche of an
                        activity which must necessarily have been enormously developed in primitive
                        times, the activity of invention and manual dexterity.) “But if his vigour
                        diminish,” proceeds Nietzsche in his account of the primæval man, “if he
                        feel tired or sick or depressed or glutted, and therefore momentarily
                        delivered of desire, then he becomes a comparatively better, that is to say,
                        more harmless, creature. It is in this condition that he becomes a thinker
                        and a reader of the future. But his thoughts, all the products of his mind,
                        must necessarily reflect his momentary condition, that is to say, the
                        beginning of cowardice and fatigue, the diminished importance in his
                        feelings of activity and enjoyment.” Let us examine this statement.
                        Nietzsche identifies, quite unwarrantably, the normal satisfaction of
                        appetite with queasy and languid indigestion: according to him, the
                        Berserker at rest must be the sick Berserker. Nietzsche has no recognition
                        of the obvious fact that, in the healthy creature, the satisfaction of a
                        want does not in the least mean the exhaustion of an energy (he
                        sophistically or perhaps merely characteristically,
                            autobiographically, identifies desire for objects with
                        desire for action), and that, shelter, food, the first necessaries once
                        obtained, this energy will be at liberty, will go into other things, useful inventions, mechanical work, and,
                        those having given their result, into the superfluous pleasantness of play,
                        art and thought. Nietzsche is even guilty of self?contradiction. He
                        certainly seems to consider activity as due to a desire for asserting power;
                        yet he supposes activity to flag with the satisfaction of definite material
                        wants. However this be, he entirely ignores the fact of the transmission to
                        another employment of whatever energy is liberated by the cessation of a
                        want, a fact which is at the root of human history, and explains all the
                        successive complexities of human activity, bodily and mental. But having
                        established the origin of the Vita
                            Contemplativa, of thought, imagination, all the higher powers,
                        in the slackness and nausea of the savage weary of violence and sick with
                        surfeit, “Pudenda origo!” he has the
                        audacity to exclaim at his own libellous account! Having done this, he
                        continues his attack on the life of the spirit by asserting that men of
                        genius poison normal life by their demand for exceptional moments. “In the
                        same manner,” he says, “as we see savages exterminating themselves by the
                        use of alcohol, so mankind as a whole and in its more important qualities
                            (im ganzen und grossen) has been
                        slowly but thoroughly corrupted by the spiritual alcoholics of intoxicating
                        feelings, and by the craving therefor. Who knows? Perhaps mankind will even
                        be exterminated thereby.”
                    Thought, sympathetic perception, inventive calculation, imaginative and
                        æsthetic joy, all that spiritual activity which enriches life, enabling it
                        to bring forth more, demanding less weariness and waste, substituting
                        enjoyment which can be shared for enjoyment which must be fought for—all this an alcoholic
                        unfitting mankind to live! Alas, alas! How deep must be the disease which
                        thus converts his fellow?creature’s best food into mere poison for this
                        wretched Nietzsche’s nerves! “Pudenda
                            origo!” one may, indeed, exclaim, not of the spiritual life,
                        but of this man’s view of it. We can now understand what Nietzsche’s “saying
                        ‘Yes’ to life” implies, and how it comes to be the culmination of a creed
                        whose basis, as Nietzsche has told us, is “a certain pleasure in saying
                        ‘No.’”
                
                
                    VI
                    According to Nietzsche’s belief, under the rubric of the “Eternal Return,”
                        every item and every concatenation of items of the universe’s existence is
                        bound to repeat itself in cycles of absolutely precise similarity. By this
                        doctrine, therefore, Nietzsche is enabled (however unconsciously) to
                        withdraw the one ideal and the one consolation which he had apparently
                        conceded to the weakness of all philosophers: the Super?Man and his “Yes”
                        will indeed come, have indeed come, an infinity of times and already; but
                        the Super?Man and his “Yes” also pass, have passed, must pass, and be
                        succeeded by a Da Capo, eternal like his comings and goings, of everything
                        that is not Super?Man and not “‘Yes’ to life.” This cosmic fact, as
                        Nietzsche affects to consider it, implies necessarily a return of all those
                        things which the Super?Man appeared to have cleared away; indeed, the eight
                        days’ illness which the discovery of the Eternal Return cost Zarathustra is very clearly referred to that
                        almost Super?Man’s recognition of the return—infinitely repeated—of the
                        meanness of spirit, the sympathy and desire for sympathy, the pity and
                        humility, all the slave’s?morality of that plebeian civilisation which
                        offended the aristocratic Nietzsche by its stuffiness and evil smell. And it
                        is this next to intolerable fact, it is this revolting habit on the part of
                        “Life,” to which, above all else, the famous “Yes” of the Super?Man is to be
                        addressed with singing and dancing. The “‘Yes’ to life,” therefore, implies,
                        quite consonantly with all we know of Nietzsche’s tendencies, a “No” not
                        merely to all human hope and consolation, but a violent “No” to the
                        assenting Super?Man’s preferences and wishes. In fact, by an unexpected
                        turn, we find that the “tendency to say ‘No,’” the “deliberate ruthlessness”
                        which Nietzsche had attributed to the original thinker, has presented us, at
                        the hands of the denouncer of all asceticism and pessimism, with but a new
                        variety of the doctrine of renunciation.
                    “Not merely,” says Nietzsche, “to endure the inevitable, still less to hide
                        it from ourselves ... but to love it.” The thought has never,
                        perhaps, been put in a more striking form; but the thought is old, and it
                        has seen an enormous amount of service, because it has been on occasions, a
                        very consoling one. It runs through all Stoical literature, descending from
                        the strained but magnificent reasonableness of Epictetus and Aurelius down
                        to a denial of evil, like that of American Faith?Healers; it takes another
                        form, but remains essentially the same, in the Christian notion of
                        Providence and Resignation, in all the paraphrases of Dante’s “In la sua
                            voluntade è nostra pace;” it reappears as Goethe’s “Entbehren sollst du,” and has even quite
                        recently been dished up, a judicious mixture of Pagan and Christian, by that
                        exquisite concocter of not very fresh moral and poetic dainties, M.
                        Maeterlinck. And the ubiquitousness, the tenacity, of this doctrine is
                        surely explicable by its belonging, most probably, to a category for which
                        Ibsen has coined a name, to its being, although in the highest and most
                        philosophical sense, a “vital lie”; one of those human inventions for making
                        life’s occasional difficulties seem easier: a drug, a tonic, a stimulant or
                        a sedative; not by any means a poison, but very far from being wholesome
                        daily bread. Every form of the doctrine of renunciation, of saying “Yes” to
                        that which naturally provokes a “No,” has undoubtedly done great service,
                        and still must do, to mankind; making the human being, if not more fruitful,
                        at all events (upon the whole) less weedy, less parasitic and, in so far,
                        less wasteful of his neighbour’s time and his neighbour’s strength. But it
                        seems to have the drawback of every lie, even of vital lies, the drawback,
                        crudely, of not corresponding with facts. The facts are that combinations do
                        occur which are dangerous to human life and power, and that pain and the
                        revolt against pain have evolved themselves because they diminish the
                        frequency of such evil combinations.
                    Sensitiveness to pain and abhorrence thereof are necessary; and, if they
                        require occasional overcoming, it is merely to guard against some greater or
                        more universal evil. It is right, therefore, despite Nietzsche, that there
                        should be pity for others; and right, even  more, despite the Stoics, that there should be pity for ourselves. In the
                        real “‘Yes’ to life” (not Zarathustra’s sham one) there must even be implied
                        a “No,” instinctive, passionate, even more than reasoned, against such of
                        life’s items as are hostile to its completeness and duration.
                    By all means, therefore, let us play a game of skill and patience with
                        Destiny; turn Fate’s moves into gains when we can, and learn from our losses
                        to play better in the future. But let us guard against the temptation,
                        subtle and strong to our inertness and to our vanity, of thinking, or
                        pretending to think, that we always gain. Making the best of things is
                        intelligent and dignified, it is, above all, practical; but beyond this
                        begins the uncouth folly of depreciating advantages which we must forego or
                        denying reverses which we have to sustain. To say systematically “Yes” to
                        the evils of life would not only break the fruitful continuity of similarity
                        and sympathy, but mar the individual’s energy, and jumble the individual’s
                        instincts. It would be a poor beginning for a Super?Man to start with
                        sensibilities so complacent, or illusions so complete, that other men’s
                        poison should become his natural meat; and it would condemn him, in the long
                        run, to receive of the life he thus stupidly accepted only the poisonous
                        refuse. ’Tis a poor result of moralising to affirm that black is white, loss
                        no loss, suffering no suffering; one feels it in all Stoicism from Epictetus
                        down to Maeterlinck, and in all religious mysticism which insists on the
                        goodness of a humanly good God. And if, following Nietzsche’s example, we
                        lay ruthlessly analytic hands upon the latest expres? sion of this venerable and indisputable piece of
                        conventional morality, we shall find in the Zarathustrian precept, of “not
                        merely enduring, but loving the inevitable,” something worse than the mere
                        weakness and insincerity which are at the bottom of all the other
                        embodiments of this particular “vital lie.” For, as the really difficult
                        attitude towards life would be the simple, straightforward one of seeing it
                        lucidly and feeling normally towards it, of hating its evil in proportion as
                        we cherish its good, of continuing in our consciousness the great work of
                        selection with a resolute “No” as well as a resolute “Yes”; as this would
                        evidently be the attitude requiring perhaps almost superhuman strength and
                        displaying almost superhuman dignity, there comes to be an element of
                        positive vulgarity in the swagger of Zarathustra, shouting his “Yes” to the
                        eternally recurring cycle of the universe’s intolerable evils. Nay, worse
                        than this; is there not in these Zarathustrian antics of “laughter and
                        dancing” in the face of the most desolating of all nightmare conceptions of
                        the universe, and in this ugly misapplication of the high and happy word
                        “love” to the object of hatred, is there not in all this famous “Yes,” a
                        virtual “No” to everything natural, sane in spirit, nay, healthy in
                        body?
                
                
                    VII
                    Can this be the great gift for which Nietzsche is evermore preparing us? Is
                        it in favour of this that we are told to destroy all long?established
                        systems and valuations? for this that we
                        are to purify the world and our souls by ruthlessness, by “deliberate
                        cruelty” towards others and ourselves? for this that the hills are to be
                        levelled and the valleys raised up by methods not of engineering but of
                        earthquake? Not in reality. For, more than in any other philosopher, we
                        become aware that there is in Nietzsche’s mind something round which his
                        system has grown, but which is far more essential and vital to him than his
                        system: something continually alluded to, constantly immanent, round which
                        he perpetually hovers, into which he frequently plunges, on whose bank he
                        erects metaphysical edifices, lets off fireworks of epigrams, sets
                        holocausts ablaze and sings magnificent dithyrambs; but which remains
                        undefined, a vague It. Such an ineffable central mystery exists
                        in the thought of many philosophers, and perhaps of all mystics (for
                        Nietzsche is a mystic); a whirlpool explaining everything, but never itself
                        explained; called, as the case may be, “Higher Law,” “Truth,” “Good,”
                        sometimes merely “Nature,” and, in the remoter Past, most frequently called
                        by the name of “God.” It is one of Nietzsche’s finest and profoundest
                        achievements that he has, once or twice, called this transcending
                            It by a new, surprising and, methinks, a correct name, “My
                        Taste.”
                    In Nietzsche’s case, indeed, more perhaps than in that of any other
                        philosopher, the living nucleus of all his teaching is not a thought, but an
                        emotional condition, organic and permanent. Under all the arguments which
                        have grown out of it, under all the facts and theories attracted to it like
                        iron filings to a magnet, out of the refuse of old and the mess of new
                        doctrines,  there is, if we look carefully
                        enough, a chronic irritation and throbbing: “I dislike,” “I hate,” “I am
                        made uncomfortable,” “I am incompatible,” “I want to get rid,” “I want to
                        destroy,” “I want to be alone,” “I want room for my soreness and swelling.”
                        The hypertrophied, hypersensitive ego, which cannot endure the contact of
                        life, the presence of others and other things; the sick ego, in its feverish
                        shiftings and feverish all?overishness, capable of convulsive efforts
                        passing the powers of health, incapable at the same time of the most normal
                        and every?day endurance; such is, I think, the living core of Nietzsche’s
                        doctrines. And the various transcending messages he feels that he must
                        bring, the great efforts of destruction and reconstruction he must
                        accomplish, everything in short which he feels to be superhuman in himself,
                        are merely the delusive birth?throes, they are the massive, yet pervading
                        pain of a soul which distorts and magnifies all things to the measure of its
                        discomfort. We have seen how his “Will to Power,” remaining consciously
                        such, fails to metamorphose itself into those desires for the not?ego, into
                        that striving after the external?to?oneself, into that thinking and feeling
                        of the outside world, which is the process of exteriorisation of the subject
                        into the object, normal and necessary in every healthy soul. We have seen
                        similarly how, despite his extraordinary genius, the vastness of the
                        universe and its complexity and vigour of life entirely escaped Nietzsche,
                        until the world shrank to being little more for him than an inert, almost
                        counterfeit, stage filled up by his own imaginary size and strength; the
                        cooperation of every kind of existence, the give and take of past and present, the ceaseless act of
                        assimilation and reproduction, and their culmination in the immortally
                        living human work, all this accessory, organic, endless and endless complex
                        activity becoming replaced in his mind by the puny deed of volition of a
                        mere individual Super?Man. Nay, we have seen how he gravely asserted that
                        this microscopic human detail could actually accept with a pompous “Yes” the
                        inevitable course of life universal, of which he, his thought and volition,
                        are but as the minutest bubble of froth; and we have seen also how this
                        supposed “‘Yes’ to life” is in reality, and more than in any of the old
                        ascetic doctrines, a “No” to the most strongly organised preferences and
                        repulsions of the normal soul.
                    For Nietzsche, through the purely intellectual and often inherited parts of
                        whose work we can trace the thread of that autobiographical philosophy he so
                        greatly prized, gave with unerring truth the formula of his temperament. “A
                        pleasure in saying ‘No,’ a certain deliberate ruthlessness.” The “No,” a
                        “No” of his whole unhappy organism, exists not merely in this element of
                        destructiveness; but even more subtly and characteristically in that sense
                        of almost bodily disgust (Ekel) which the
                        contact of his fellow?men, of their thoughts and feelings, arouses in him,
                        with significant metaphors of “lack of air” and “filthy smell.” Even more
                        than that titillation of tearing and breaking perpetually in Nietzsche’s
                        fingers, there is the unmistakable evidence of disease in this constant
                        spiritual nausea in Nietzsche’s mouth. The two together mean that this man,
                        so splendidly endowed in intellect, was so
                        unhappily constituted as to receive mainly painful impressions from the
                        totality of his surroundings. I think I am justified in saying “mainly
                        painful impressions,” despite the occasional praise which Nietzsche bestows
                        upon classic literature, remote Alpine fastnesses, southern clearness and
                        radiance, and more particularly upon certain music—Bizet’s, especially, and
                        (partly from contradictoriness to the Wagnerians) Mozart’s. For such
                        evidences of pleasure from outer things are not only rare, but they are
                        never fused into any kind of pervading mood of gladness, of appreciation and
                        gratitude towards the outer world. He has, indeed, put into words his
                        incapacity of feeling anything save the fewest and most far?between
                        impressions of the goodness of things, and expressed the mass of
                        discontented, depreciating self?assertion in which these rare appreciative
                        impressions were set. For such is the meaning, as indicative of Nietzsche’s
                        personality, of that famous phrase about the glance of the true philosopher,
                        “which rarely admires, rarely looks up, rarely loves.”
                    Let us think what that means; and, particularly, what is contained in that
                        boast of rarely loving. And in this last item, especially, the secret of
                        Nietzsche’s nature is out. One guesses it many times, but perhaps nowhere in
                        his works is it so strongly suggested as in a certain beautiful chapter of
                        “Zarathustra.” He shows himself in it surrounded by all the beauty of life,
                        all the tenderness of life, and by the majestic fact of life’s eternal
                        renovation; and he shows himself, at the same time, without the smallest
                        thrill of emotional recognition, without the faintest sense of being a part of it, without the faintest longing
                        to merge himself therein, to take it in, to give himself to it, without a
                        trace of the universal instinct to assimilate, to be renovated, to add to it
                        in one’s turn. He shows himself separate, unmoved, impervious, unaltered,
                        solitary, sterile. The reason why Nietzsche will always remain inferior to
                        other thinkers, from Plato and Lucretius to Spinoza and Schopenhauer, is
                        that, for all his talk of “loving the inevitable,” the man has no experience
                        of the fact of love. I do not speak of love of human beings. Not to know
                        that is certainly a lack and limitation, but there are lacks and limitations
                        far deeper and graver still than that: not to unite in thought and feeling
                        with the thought and feeling of which the world is full; not to appreciate,
                        not to admire, not to reverence; not to unite in joy with what is lovely, in
                        reverence with what, in man and nature, is powerful; nay, not to unite in
                        the fruitful struggle of hatred with what is hateful.
                    But Nietzsche’s Super?Man was to say “Yes” to the whole of life, “to love the
                        inevitable”—that which, as he himself explained, most human beings could
                        scarcely endure. He was to love rarely; or more correctly speaking—for those
                        who have the power of loving must needs love whenever there is occasion, and
                        the occasion is not rare, but common—he was not to love, in the word’s real
                        sense, at all.
                    Haunted, hag?ridden, by the sense of his own sore and struggling ego,
                        Nietzsche, true to the autobiographical instincts which he discovered in all
                        philosophic systematising, made life synonymous with that ego’s realisation
                        and assertion. “Give,” he wrote in one of
                        his latest and finest works, “Give me, ye Gods, give me madness! madness to
                        make me believe at last in myself.” But in this world of intuitive and
                        imitative action, of reflex?like instincts implanted inextricably deep below
                        consciousness, there is no need for special self?belief or self?assertion;
                        or, rather, self?belief and self?assertion are bound to exist, to push, to
                        act, to speak, everywhere and in everything, whether they be conscious or
                        not: they are implicit in every desire and every energy. The realisation of
                        one’s own ego is—even when it is not the fly’s self?realisation on the coach
                        wheel—the most unnecessary epiphenomenon; nay, the least fruitful exercise
                        of an idle dilettanteism. Believe in oneself! Why is it not enough that we
                        believe in the objects of our love and our hate, in the aims of our impulses
                        and actions? And does life depend upon the fiat of individual
                        self?realisation? What is this childish trifling about saying “‘Yes’ to
                        life,” about loving the inevitable? Man, the inevitable can do without your
                        approval! And Life has you safe in its clutches, Life, Death—and the madness
                        you invoked, also.
                
                
                    VIII
                    Why have we spent so much time—which would have sufficed to collect a volume
                        of sane and useful sayings out of Nietzsche’s work—upon the analysis of his
                        unhappy, morbid and sterile personality? Partly because, in the universal
                        and necessary reconsideration of all our previous habits of belief and
                        standards of conduct, the imitation of Nietzsche’s attitude con? stitutes a real, though a momentary, danger to
                        some of us. But partly, also, because the attitude of Nietzsche suggests in
                        its main characteristics, and helps us to construct even in some of its
                        details, an attitude towards the universe of an exactly contrary nature. In
                        analysing the sham “Yes” which this passionate No?Sayer flung in the face of
                        the life he had stripped of all living quality, we may have been led to
                        conceive a more genuine “Yes” addressed to a more real life. And thus we may
                        have come to reverse the prayer of Nietzsche, and to exclaim, in humility
                        and confidence: “Give us, ye Gods, Sanity: so that we may believe in all
                        which is not merely our own self.”
                
            
            
            
                PROFESSOR JAMES AND THE “WILL TO BELIEVE”
                
                PROFESSOR JAMES AND THE “WILL TO BELIEVE”
                
                    THE
                        need to believe. That is the title which, in my mind, I find I
                        give to these subtle, brilliant, delicate, violent, and altogether
                        delightful and intolerable essays of Professor William James. The
                            “will to believe,” he himself has entitled them and the
                        main subject they treat of: as a lesser apologist, some years ago, had
                        called a similar book the “Wish to Believe.”
                    The wish, the will to believe—suggestive enough
                        titles certainly. But, if I may paraphrase Faust’s commentary on St. John:
                        in the beginning, before the wish, or the will,
                        there was something else; in the beginning was the need. The
                            need to believe—that is to say, a given mental
                        constitution, typical like all others, whose spontaneous and inevitable
                        tendencies have been reinforced by such portion of its surroundings as it
                        found akin to itself. But, at that rate, what about truth—abstract truth?
                        Surely we all of us want to get at that. Of course we all do, and each of us
                        more than every one else. But abstract truth has to  be sought for by methods, to be sought for,
                        moreover, in one direction or another; and these methods and this direction
                        depend, in things spiritual more particularly, upon our intimate
                        constitutional habits, and represent that need to believe, or not to
                        believe, one sort of thing rather than another; the need which,
                        as remarked, must come before the wish or the
                        will. This is prejudging the question. Yes; but prejudging it
                        equitably. For, while postulating on the part of Professor James a
                        constitutional need to believe, of which his arguments are mere explanations
                        and excuses, I admit from the first that a corresponding need not to
                            believe (that is, not to believe the same as Professor James),
                        and even a will not to believe, is at the bottom of the
                        counter?arguments with which I shall endeavour to oppose him. Indeed, the
                        whole small usefulness of the following notes depends, in my eyes, on their
                        embodying a picture of the type of mind which does not need to
                            believe, to set opposite Professor James’s incidentally drawn
                        portrait of the mind which does need to believe; and this for
                        the benefit of that unbiassed abstract reader who exists only in the average
                        (and perhaps not even there), and for the better setting forth of what I
                        hold to be a great and consolatory fact, to wit, that there are luckily a
                        great variety of human types, and a good many ways of working out ones
                        spiritual welfare, of being saved in life, if not after death.
                    This being the case, and Professor James’s arguments seeming to me only
                        modernised versions of what has been alleged ever since the beginning of
                        such controversies, I need make no excuses for the venerable  staleness of my counter?arguments. For when, as
                        in this particular case, it is a great Goliath of Science who comes forward
                        with newly furbished weapons from the old orthodox armoury, it is no
                        disgrace to the poor David of Ignorance to fill his sling, not with smooth
                        pebbles from the brook, but with a handful of rusty rationalistic shot.
                
                
                    II
                    There enters, according to Professor James’s title (and I am not, I hope,
                        misunderstanding him in saying according also to Professor James’s ideas),
                        something into belief besides the evidence and the logical process of which,
                        according to old?fashioned notions, belief was exclusively composed. Or
                        rather, belief is the outcome of something which our dogmatising fathers who
                        believed exclusively in the intellect (because they denied that their
                        adversaries had any) allowed only as an ingredient and factor of variation
                        in error. A kindlier disposition towards our opponents, and a more rigorous
                        scrutiny of our own mental processes, has led us moderns to perceive that
                        logical proof and ocular demonstration are not much more than negative
                        powers, and that a stronger motor than they is needed to set a?going the
                        lazy and much impeded mechanism of human belief. This is one of the great
                        achievements of modern mental science; and its convincing elucidation is one
                        of the finest successes of Professor James’s own splendid work in
                        Psychology.
                    Belief in the existence of anything is primarily set afoot by a
                        practical or emotional requirement; and it  is only far, far on in intellectual development (and even there only
                        pushed by pleasurable impulses to ransack facts or construct theories) that
                        we meet with ideas, with beliefs, existing for their own sake and born
                        solely of other ones. But primarily, as I said, we believe in a thing
                        because we feel in some way that tends towards it: we set about looking for
                        water not because certain aspects of the place afford an intellectual
                        persuasion of its presence, but because we want to drink it; and the
                        intellectual element of evidence and logic (disregarded so long as we are
                        not thirsty) comes in only to direct or to check this incipient belief, this
                        conception produced by desire. The psychological theory of belief was
                        formulated centuries ago (though not by a philosopher), in the adage about
                        wishes being horses. In the earlier stage belief is indistinguishable from
                        expectation, and expectation (as we know from infants’ proceedings about
                        food and grown?up people’s views about the duties of others) is merely a
                            conceptional wish, frequently not merely independent of
                        reality, but absolutely hostile to it. This is the first stage. The beggars
                        of the old adage raise their foot into the stirrup, and up! but alas, no
                        horses are there to bestride! The child eagerly bites into a sweet,
                        delicious orange, and (forgive my vulgarity) spits out a very sour lemon. We
                        all of us go to our neighbour clamouting for sympathy and assistance, and
                        find that our neighbout takes a different view, and has his own affairs to
                        look after. The result of such experience, of the beggar’s attempt to ride,
                        is a modification of the belief which is a kind of desire into the more
                        complex sort of belief which, as often as not, runs counter thereunto. The experience, being
                        usually disagreeable, is supplemented or replaced, by what we call logic,
                        which dispenses us from biting into fruit which may be sour, clamouring for
                        sympathy which may be refused, and generally, like those beggars, getting a
                        bad fall off imaginary horses. Experience and logic, at any rate, modify our
                        conceptions; and such modified conceptions are what we mean when, in any
                        scientific or practical way, we speak of belief. Moreover, it
                        is such belief as this upon which, from a wholesome fear of accidents, we
                        usually try to base our actions. In this, manner does impulse—the impulse,
                        if we may call it so, of prudence—stimulate our lazy minds and, inducing us
                        to modify our expectations by knowledge, counteract the previous impulse to
                        believe in the existence of everything we want.
                    Such is the platitudinous history of the formation of belief, in those
                        practical matters where certainty is necessary and attainable. Now this
                        alteration of expectation by actuality, this rude elimination of the element
                        of mere personal desire out of what we call belief, does most conspicuously
                            not take place in one of belief’s chief categories, and (by
                        a curious coincidence) in the very category which has usurped the name
                        without further qualifications. In matters religious and philosophical
                        (which are so largely the same under different titles), wishes really do
                        become horses; at all events, every beggar contrives to enjoy a ride,
                        whether on Pegasus or a stickhorse only he himself is left to judge. We are
                        all of us, either individually or grouped into creeds and schools, allowed
                        in such  matters as God, the Soul,
                        Immortality, and all the transcendent questions, to express our preferences
                        and our requirements as we should never dare express them in physics or
                        chemistry, or the most rudimentary housewife’s science. It is no
                        exaggeration to say that we could not boil an egg without a severe
                        elimination of the personal element of consideration of wish
                        and will, and needs of our nature—such as is never
                        applied to religious and philosophical beliefs. This difference shows, as
                        apologists have often remarked, that belief in things spiritual conforms to
                        different rules from belief in things temporal. And therein I agree
                        completely. But if religious thought can thus dispense with the kind of
                        certainty required even for the simplest practical affairs, this must surely
                        be only because no practical decisions are really based upon it; because it
                        is not a means to an end, but an end, even like art, in itself. The
                        persistence in all views on spiritual matters, of that element of desire,
                        nay, of every individual and momentary feeling which has been eliminated
                        from more material kinds of belief, shows that such views are useful not as
                        a basis for action, but as an expression and embodiment of emotional and
                        constructive impulses inherent in what we may call the soul. Such a view is
                        no disparagement to religion; if anything, the contrary. There are
                        activities, surely, which, instead of merely stoking, so to
                        speak, for the maintenance of themselves and of other activities, are
                        advantageous to life by increasing and regulating its complexities; nay,
                        which perhaps constitute, in the eyes of a rational human being, life’s only
                        worthy end and object. To despise such activities is the equivalent,  on the psychologist’s part, of a certain
                        kind of political economy, preaching abstinence from all the good which
                        wealth can buy for the sake of increasing that wealth itself, which, apart
                        from its use, can have no meaning.
                    If, therefore, will can enter into belief, it is only, to my
                        mind, as an expression of need, of the craving of this part of
                        our constitution. And in so far as the needs of different men differ, and
                        the needs of different historical periods and racial types differ still
                        more, it is not surprising that while science and the practical applications
                        thereof have tended to that ever greater unity which we associate with the
                        notion of objective truth, the creations of the religious instinct, the
                        expressions of the will not to know, nor to
                            succeed, but to believe, have been as various
                        as the product of the æsthetic faculties.
                    I am not speaking disrespectfully of religious thought, in saying that it is
                        far less akin to science than to art, indeed, in its highest manifestation,
                        perhaps merely a category of the æsthetic phenomenon; for as I do not agree
                        with Professor James that the æsthetic sensibility is an accident in
                        evolution like the capacity for sea?sickness, I am not bound (although I
                        have no will to believe) to agree with another, non?unitarian
                        psychologist, that “religion is a malady of the soul.”
                    Indeed, when I come to think of it, it seems as if I had more sympathy with
                        religious people instead of less, just because I disbelieve in religion’s
                        objective validity or value: at all events, my sympathies are less
                        restricted than those of the various religious persons themselves, High
                        Church, Low Church, Anglican, Romans follower of Ali and follower of Omar,
                        nay even  (I fear) of Professor James
                        himself, who lays about him freely against the excessive demands of
                        Catholics and Calvinists, the insufficient demands of agnostics—in fact
                        against everybody who is not of his own way of thinking. If desire,
                        suitability to one’s own feelings (which I take to be the meaning of “moral
                        coherence”), enters into religious belief; why then there must enter into it
                        the temperamental peculiarities and the peculiarities of civilisation by
                        which these non?logical demands are differentiated from each other; and if
                        truth is to result from it all, why insist that only one view can be true—or
                        rather, why not insist that to himself each single individual must
                        necessarily be in the right? Once admit a will to believe, and
                        the divergences between, say, the God of the Hebrews (Patriarchs and
                        Prophets indiscriminately) and the God of Marcus Aurelius, and the God of
                        Dante, and the God of Emerson, must be as legitimate and as significant of
                        truth as the coincidences between them. Neither should Professor James warn
                        us against going into excessive detail about the Divinity and admonish us to
                        be satisfied, so to speak, with the Divinity being there at all. Professor
                        James, indeed, is satisfied with God being there, and perhaps being there to
                        satisfy Professor James; but that would not at all suffice for Dante, who
                        wanted a God to apply filthy chastisements for sins he “did not feel
                        inclined to”; nor for Cardinal Newman, who wanted a God to set afoot a world
                        capable of Original Sin and Redemption; nor for the poor old woman who wants
                        a God able to take pleasure in a twopenny taper.
                    And why should we sympathise less with all these divergent religious needs than with those of
                        Professor William James? Only, because we happen to be nearer his general
                        way of thinking, because we happen to admire him enormously, while we are
                        indifferent to the Eternal Punishment of Gluttons (as set forth by Dante),
                        to Original Sin (as understood by Newman), and to cheap wax lights (as
                        regarded by the devout old lady). And here let me say that, unless we
                        consider all religions as equally a nuisance (and perhaps even if we do so
                        consider them), it would surely be more consistent, kinder, and therefore
                        better bred, more wholesome for our own spiritual life, such as it may be,
                        if we could get to speak and even think respectfully of the sincere and
                        disinterested elements in every kind of belief. Agnosticism can afford to be
                        fairer to Romanism than Protestants can be, fairer to Calvinism than it is
                        possible for Ritualists, more decent to each and every honest and beautiful
                        faith than any other honest and beautiful faith is wont to be. I may claim
                        even more for the attitude towards various religious faiths of those who can
                        dispense with any, for the thorough?paced agnostic. Since, should there
                        really exist, immanent and hidden in this world of phenomena, of humanly
                        perceived and interpreted appearances, an Ens
                            Realissimum in any way resembling the creatures who worship
                        and burn, turn about, the images they have made of him, if there be such an
                        One—is it not justifiable to suppose that, having created such various moral
                        soils and climates and germs, the unknown First Cause might love to watch
                        the different growths of soul, and cherish the diversity of his spiritual
                        garden?
                
                
                
                    III
                    But these are the scruples of a determinist, whose individual fate it is to
                        have no will to believe the same things as Professor James.
                    He, on the other hand, who does will to believe, has rather a
                        complicated arrangement to make, which, to the best of my power, I desire to
                        understand and put before the reader fairly. There is—such is the pith of
                        the arguments—there is of course a non?rational element existing quite
                        legitimately in belief: the individual believer has an individual
                        constitution, and this has got individual needs, tendencies,
                        impulses, repulsions, desires. But—and in this but is the whole
                        morality and philosophy of the business—but these constitutional, hence
                        inevitable, fatal needs, are only reasons among which the will chooses. And
                        the will, which makes the choice, is overruled, determined by none of these
                        inevitable motives, is independent of the individual constitution; it
                        promenades its glance, poising freely in
                            vacuo, upon the whole series of inevitable tendencies; and it
                        makes its choice freely. Hence it would seem that, so far from
                        the Will to believe being, as I have represented it, a
                            Need to believe; the Will to Believe can exist even where
                        there is a constitutional need NOT to believe. And by
                        this arrangement we are all responsible for our beliefs, since we are
                        responsible for our wills—or is it our wills which are responsible for
                        us?—and there is no reason on earth for being polite towards bigotry or
                        scepticism, seeing that Cardinal Newman, M. Renan, Professor  Clifford, and especially Hegel, were perfectly
                        free to think differently from the remarkably reprehensible way in which
                        they did.
                    There is, therefore, a clear space round the will. It sits somewhere in the
                        midst of motives, seeing them plainly, but quite safe from their laying
                        hands on it. This would be a curious position—though it has not seemed an
                        impossible one to most persons—for the Will to enjoy, or rather for the
                        myriads of Wills all poised in vacuo like
                        a spider in the midst of a web which shouldn’t touch him. But the situation
                        becomes quite different, and the position of the will far less conspicuous,
                        if we admit with Professor James that there is no real reason for conceiving
                        the isolated wills as surrounded by anything continuous in itself; there are
                        holes round the wills because there are holes here, there, and everywhere.
                        The universe is no longer homogeneous in necessity of action and reaction;
                        the universe is honeycombed, nay actually held in solution, by a foreign
                        something called chance. Even in the most trivial matters, we may watch the
                        movements of chance, and verify the absolute freedom of the human will.
                        Listen to Professor James:
                    “Do not all the motives that assail us, all the futures that offer themselves
                        to our choice, spring equally from the soil of the Past; and would not
                        either one of them, whether realised through chance or through necessity,
                        the moment it was realised, seem to us to fit that past, and in the
                        completest and most continuous manner to interdigitate with the phenomenon
                        already there.” The Past, for instance, has led Professor James, as he tells
                        us, to the possibility  of choosing to
                        take one street rather than the other. He shows us two separate and possible
                        universes, one in which he has chosen the one street, another in which he
                        has chosen the other street; and asks which of the two is the more rational
                        universe, summing up the demonstration with the remark: “In every outwardly
                        verifiable and practical respect, a world in which the alternatives that now
                        actually distract your choice were decided by pure chance would be by
                            me absolutely undistinguished from the world in which I now
                        live.” But that is just it. There seems a chance, an alternative, wherever
                        we do not see with eyes or with experience the totality of a process. To me
                        it seems pure chance that the omelette collapses instead of swelling, for I
                        do not see what should make it do either; but my cook knows and blushes for
                        her awkwardness. In watching an illness, even to a doctor, there may seem to
                        be a chance, because the doctor does not know all that is going on. That a
                        particular grain of sand should have made straight for Cromwell’s vitals,
                        with the result of killing him, seemed a matter of chance to Pascal, because
                        it was all happening unseen in another man’s body; but had Pascal been
                        experimenting in his study with grains of sand he would not have accepted
                        chance as an explanation. Chance in fact is a name for the
                        residuum, for what we do not know or do not care about, and in all
                        speculations there must be, perpetually changing, such a residuum.
                            Chance will come in wherever we cease to look or fail to
                        see into a process. It indicates our ignorance not merely of what will
                            happen, but of what is happening. There seems no
                        sufficient reason, more? over, why, if we
                        admit chance as a condition in the act of willing, which is one of the most
                        obscure and entangled mysteries of our nature, one which observation seems
                        almost unable to arrive at—we should not admit chance also as a condition in
                        the perfectly clear and well?known phenomena which lie under our eye. Why
                        should chance not make the water in a boiler freeze? Yet, if such a thing
                        occurred, we should merely jump to the conclusion that some new factor of
                        change had come in unnoticed by us; we might even say that some saint or
                        fairy had been abroad, and that his preference had upset the ways of the
                        elements. But we should not invoke chance. Indeed, in my
                        ignorance of science I have an idea (perhaps mistaken) that scientific
                        experiments are sometimes made, medical diagnosis for instance, on the
                        express exclusion of chance: a substance put into something, a
                        mixture made inside a pot or inside a human being, and, according to the
                        results given by the new element, some conclusion drawn about the previous
                        contents of pot or human being. But I am ignorant of science, and may be
                        mistaken; so I will only draw on literature for confirmation, and remark
                        that it seems odd that even Pope should have refused chance a place in the
                        material universe and relegated it to the secret operations of what were
                        called the faculties of the mind: 
                            “And binding Nature fast in Fate,
                            Left free the Human Will.”
                         This snipping of the web of cause and effect, this bringing in of
                        independent factors from the back of
                        beyond, is perhaps a necessary conclusion from the facts and tendencies of
                        recent science; of this I am too ignorant to judge. Connected with the
                            will to believe, it seems to me (what such a will to
                        believe surely authorises) a voluntary result of the old, old theological
                        dilemma of squaring omnipotence and moral perfection. For, if God is the
                        first cause, God is the only cause, and the primary cause of every secondary
                        and successive cause whatsoever. If God made man, and man made mischief,
                        then primarily that mischief was of God’s making. Nor would there have been
                        anything at all shocking in this, if the world had contained only
                        metaphysicians, and religion had ministered only to a logical and
                        constructive desire for a beginning of all things.
                    But the world was peopled also with persons liable to molest their
                        neighbours, and with other persons thus molested; and religion was also
                        required to sanction, by a system of prohibitions, of rewards and of
                        punishment, the practically indispensable craving for justice. For, by a
                        very natural contradiction, mankind has always acted as if the individual
                        will were free enough to be responsible, but determinable enough to be
                        influenced by threats and promises. Now it would never have done (as has
                        been formulated by M. Paul Bourget’s determinist villain) for men to answer
                        the judging divinity by pointing out that he was responsible for the very
                        acts he was about to punish. “Ihr lasst den Armen schuldig werden”—at all
                        events, such views were safe only in philosophical novels, like
                            Job and Wilhelm Meister.
                    Moreover, besides the practical dangers which such  a view as this might have entailed, there was the
                        emotional distress it must bring to another class of persons, who asked of
                        religion not the solution of a metaphysical riddle, nor the sanction of an
                        ethical policy, but something perhaps more indispensable than either, an
                        embodied maximum of sympathy, of helpfulness, of lovingkindness, of all the
                        beautiful qualities which mankind showed only in the sample. Some such
                        dilemma there must have been in every religion which was more than mere
                        nature worship or less than pure metaphysics; and it would be interesting
                        could one study the various modes of eluding it. The best plan was clearly
                        to isolate, to prevent the clashing, of conceptions of the divinity so
                        originally incongruous as the Metaphysical First Cause, the Ethical Judge,
                        and the emotional Lover of the Soul. Christianity effected this by the
                        miraculous intervention of human free will and disobedience. The miracle
                        was, indeed, far from satisfactory: man’s will, separated, in order to be
                        completely responsible, from all the rest of causation, was not logically
                        controllable by a categorical imperative, since an imperative, an order, an
                        enforcement, is inconceivable towards a will which is not conditioned; and
                        on the other hand the very freedom of man’s will must have been granted by a
                        First Cause who, if omnipotent, could have chosen to obviate so terrible a
                        danger. The solidarity between God and Evil still existed, the
                        responsibility for Man’s and Nature’s wickedness had been merely concealed;
                        suspicion, nay certainty of this, growled through every possible form of
                        disbelief and heresy. But the solidarity had been reduced to a minimum, the
                        responsibility had been  relegated to an
                        infinitely distant Past, and the church, luckily perhaps for mankind,
                        decided that any difficulty there might remain in the matter was silenced by
                        the inscrutability of God’s ways to man. Thus things were pacified by the
                        doctrine of Original Sin, which to the rigorously logical mind of Newman
                        seemed “almost as certain as that the world exists and as the existence of
                        God.”
                    In this way it became possible for every man to cherish a personal divinity,
                        by virtually breaking up the unity of the monotheistic idea. For in the
                        individual conscience the total self?contradictory Godhead exists, most
                        probably, only in short (and most often painful) flashes of synthesis; from
                        which each individual nature selects and magnifies those aspects which
                        answer to its deepest individual wants. A logical God there no doubt is, a
                        perfectly consistent First Cause, in the thought of the metaphysician or
                        theologian, untroubled by questions of sentiment or conduct. The whole
                        Bible, on the other hand (save Job) and every other manifestation of
                        Puritanism, past or present, testifies to the undisturbed subjective reign
                        of a God of Righteousness, from whom all injustice, however logically
                        demonstrable, has been passionately purged away. While, on the other hand,
                        one of the most blessed sights in life are the glimpses we get of a Godhead,
                        consubstantial with so many exquisite human hearts, in the perfection of
                        whose goodness all evil, in reality or in dogma, is dissolved and
                        neutralised away. But the total and definite divinity, monstrous in absurd
                        and wicked contradictions, can never have been clearly discerned without
                        horror, and has in the practical exercise
                        of every creed been invariably broken up or hidden away. To say this is no
                        disrespect, but quite the contrary, to the noble though discrepant instincts
                        fortuitously meeting and clashing in what we have called religion. And, as
                        regards, on the other hand, an objective primary Reality, let not anything I
                        have said be construed into a grotesque judgment concerning the existence of
                        such a One. If, as all philosophical progress unites in thinking, and as
                        Kant has made it so easy for us all to grasp, if it is true that all that we
                        know we can know only in the terms of our senses and our organic
                        intellectual necessities, then must the Objective First Cause remain for
                        ever hopelessly hidden from our knowledge and our imagination; and the God,
                        whatsoever he be, whom we worship, we hope for or deny, be but an idol of
                        our own making, an idol the more potent that he is a part of ourselves; but
                        an idol in judging of whose qualities and whose possibilities we are only
                        judging our own thoughts, and desires, and dreams; and the Objective Real
                        Cause might, had he qualities or form, rebuke us as the Spirit of the Earth
                        did Faust:— 
                            “Du gleichst dem Geist den du begreifst, nicht Mir!”
                        
                
                
                    IV
                    The cruxes of theology, and theology’s ways of settling them are, as Mr.
                        Richard Le Gallienne has shown in a small book which is suggestive and
                        charming, for the most part only the dilemmas and ways out of them of metaphysics. But the difference
                        between the thinker bent upon religious edification, and the thinker of mere
                        rationalistic habits, is that the latter is not forced to attempt anomalous
                        unifications in the person of a divinity. Professor James has failed to see
                        this great advantage of the Agnostic’s intellectual and moral position; and,
                        being a Unitarian, he declines to hear of subjective divinities; he
                            wills to believe in an objective and substantive Godhead.
                        By constructing an elaborate system of air?tight compartments filled with
                        Freewill which are connected with, but not pressed upon by, surrounding
                        causality, he has saved the unity of the Creator by sacrificing, very
                        explicitly, the unity of Creation. And in so doing he erroneously imagines
                        that he has attained the only morally endurable conception of the relations
                        of man with what is not man. “If,” writes Professor James of his opponent,
                        the determinist, “if all he means is that the badness of some parts does not
                        prevent his acceptance of a universe whose other parts give him
                        satisfaction, I welcome him (it is always Professor James who speaks) as an
                        ally. He (the determinist) has abandoned the notion of the
                            whole, which is the essence of deterministic monism, and
                        views things as a pluralism, just as I do in this paper.”
                    Not by any means, Professor James; I can, as a human being, take exception to
                        any amount of things in the universe without in the least postulating a
                        pluralism. The fact of various items being parts of the same whole, that is
                        to say, being bound to act and react on one another, does not in the least
                        imply that the action and reaction in question should be accom? panied in any of them by the particular condition
                        or feeling called pleasure or approval. Indeed, since pleasure and
                        disapproval do undoubtedly exist, one might deduce from their existence the
                        very fact that various items do act and react upon one another; in other
                        words that there is an unbroken chain of causation, a causal whole; whereas,
                        if the universe were full of gaps in the sequence, approval and disapproval
                        would necessarily be by so far diminished. There is, therefore, no
                        pluralistic view implied in the recognition that one tiny piece of the great
                        whole, the portion calling itself Man, is so constituted, and
                        constituted in virtue of the nature of the whole, as to feel, to judge the
                        larger portion in which it is embedded, according to standards inevitably
                        arising out of its special constitution and surroundings. In synthesising
                        its piece of the universe according to its synthetic system, and dividing
                        that piece of the universe into facts which delight and facts which revolt
                        its special mode of being, mankind is so far from breaking up the total
                        unity that its human synthesis and analysis, its repugnance and its
                        preference, are themselves traceable to the action and reaction between
                        itself and the adjacent parts, so to speak, of that whole; actions and
                        reactions due, no doubt, in their turn to the actions and reactions of
                        infinite other parts which are hidden from the faculties which the whole has
                        given to that part of itself called mankind, and given thus limited and
                        determined.
                    The very essence of determinism is the belief that man’s likings and
                        dislikings, nay, his modalities of perception and reasoning, are due to the
                        causal chain of processes which have constituted him, which do  constitute him man; man, and not horse, dog, or
                        cat; man, and not tree or stone; man, and not angel, Demiurgus, or God; and
                        that, so far as there is a difference in the determined constitution, in the
                        determinating sequence, man’s likings and dislikings and feelings and
                        thoughts are not shared by horse, dog, cat, tree, stone, angel, Demiurgus,
                        or God.
                    Or God. Taking up, therefore, the idol we all make and alter and endow with
                        that name, I may say that only thorough?paced determinism can, it seems to
                        me, really break that wretched solidarity between the First Cause,
                        postulated by man’s reason, and the Principle of Good demanded by man’s
                        heart. For, how can we ask of a First Cause, which our reason insists on as
                        absolutely unconditioned (else it would not be First Cause at all)
                        participating in the moral instincts and preferences which are involved in
                        the very nature of man? And how, on the other hand, can we, because our
                        reason insists on the existence of a bare First Cause, and on the existence,
                        moreover, of infinite realities necessarily hidden from our faculties, which
                        perceive only what we call phenomena, why should we, how could we, silence
                        those demands for justice, kindness, harmony, which are an inevitable part
                        of our constitutions ? We cannot help judging the Universe, we cannot help
                        judging God, and finding both at fault. But, if we are reasonable, we cannot
                        help at the same time recognising that the Universe and the God we are
                        judging are mere creations of our own faculties; that good and evil as we
                        conceive it, or even good and evil at all, are qualities which exist for
                        certain only relatively to mankind; that it is only an exuberance of  an activity better turned to the
                        criticism of ourselves, which makes us criticise also the creations—perhaps
                        the utterly gratuitous creations—of our own human mind, makes us rage at the
                        ugliness of the picture of our painting, and sorrow at the cruelty of the
                        idol we have wrought. As to the great Realities, we cannot fall foul of
                        them, since we cannot even conceive them. This is the reconciliation between
                        our reason and our desires, which can console such of us as admit the merely
                        subjective nature of what our religious instincts, harmonious or discordant
                        in their action, are for ever making us hope and believe.
                    But the person who wills, or needs to believe, in an objective First Cause
                        and in an objective intention in the universe (or in part of the universe),
                        is liable to think that the morality of man receives its principal sanction
                        from a similar morality on the part of God. To Professor James, it would
                        seem, a disbelief in the second contradicts, or largely invalidates, a
                        belief in the first. To me, on the contrary, it seems as if the recognition
                        that we know only our own desires and fancies about the order of the
                        universe, ought, rather, to make us give more implicit obedience to what is
                        evidently the order, the necessity of man’s nature. We find no
                        trace—Professor James is the first to admit it—no trace of morality in the
                        proceedings of physical nature; he might have added that we find distinct
                        traces of what would be immorality for us in the proceedings of our very
                        near animal relatives. What can this prove save that morality is a
                        necessity, a law special to man; and what stronger sanction can morality
                        obtain than the fact that it is specially neces? sary for us? Suppose, by way of comparison, that
                        we ask which is the more cogent reason for eating, or sleeping, or taking a
                        walk, the fact that all our neighbours do as much, and that we are bound to
                        them by similarity; or the fact that each of us, individually, cannot live
                        comfortably without eating, or sleeping, or taking a walk? Surely the
                        greater cogency is the nearer to ourselves. If it were otherwise, we should
                        be bound to disregard the command, the necessity of our individual
                        constitution, and imitate our neighbours not merely in the points in which
                        there is unanimity of nature and interest, but also in the points in which
                        there is discrepancy. Similarly between mankind and the universe. The moral
                        imperative is an imperative because man’s constitution and
                        circumstances enforce it; it is an order which cannot be disobeyed, because
                        it comes from within. Would the sanction be greater if the imperative
                        applied also to the universe beyond man, if the order came from without?
                        Were such the case, and did the cogency of an imperative depend upon the
                        number and the variety of the classes which obeyed it; did solidarity with
                        the non?human universe instead of solidarity inside mankind, and, moreover,
                        inside the human individual constitution, determine our actions—then we
                        should be bound to set at defiance all our human instincts of righteousness
                        merely because we recognised that the universe, which is bigger than
                        mankind, conformed to a standard which is not that of human rightdoing at
                        all. So far as we can see, there is a different right and wrong, or perhaps
                        no right and wrong at all, outside the human being and human society.
                        Certain philosophers, and particularly 
                        certain mystics, have seen this plainly, and settled the question in a
                        strictly logical manner. Our moral instincts, they have justly perceived,
                        although necessary to us and to this earthly existence, need have no use in
                        an existence carried on on different lines. These instincts may therefore be
                        merely temporary; and, our spiritual essence once freed from bodily and
                        social requirements, it is conceivable that we may shed such narrowing and
                        distorting prejudices, and get to like those arrangements of the universe
                        which we now call evil, quite as well as the others which we
                        now call good; or rather, we may give up such earthly provincialisms as
                        approval and disapproval, and sit quite happily at the First Cause’s right
                        hand, perfectly satisfied with the mere knowledge of the chain of
                        causality.
                
                
                    V
                    This is exceedingly logical. But it is not moral. Our instincts
                        for good somehow refuse to be satisfied with the assurance that they are
                        temporary and necessary hallucinations, and accordingly we find that such a
                        solution of the great riddle does not commend itself to Professor James any
                        more than to that wholesome and practical, if rather rough and ready,
                        moralist, the Church, which has never omitted to burn the persons, or at
                        least the books, of those who advanced this particular justification of
                        God’s ways to man. The Church and Professor James have felt very strongly
                        that life would be unendurable without a maximum of moral feeling on man’s
                        part; and that such a maximum  requires
                        that man should blindly strive and cry out for morality, eternally and
                        everywhere. Besides, a divinity is wanted, not merely to satisfy the logical
                        and the emotional wants of mankind, but also to sanction, to enforce
                        morality and, even more, to satisfy man’s moral cravings. Hence a constant
                        juggling with ideas, juggling whose efficacy depended on the extent to which
                        mankind was able to close either the eye of morality or the eye of logic.
                        Original Sin was one of the dodges which succeeded when the eye of morality
                        was closed; when the eye of reason, always a little short?sighted, was
                        winked, it was possible to arrange matters by splitting the divine essence
                        into a Father who did all the bad obscure business of creation, and a Son
                        filling the centre of vision with the effulgence of self?sacrifice and
                        redemption; indeed, I cannot but think that the more rationalised
                        Christianity of Professor James loses incalculably by the reduction to a
                        minimum of the divinity of Christ. Be this as it may, the church through all
                        the centuries, and Professor James through all his volume, have found
                        themselves perpetually in presence of the old, old dilemma, not the dilemma
                        of determinism with which Professor James has dealt explicitly, but the much
                        worse, because implicit, dilemma of “justifying the Ways of God to Man.”
                
                
                    VI
                    Professor James’s will to believe has taken him into the thick of it. For,
                        not satisfied with breaking up the causal connexion of the Universe and
                        filling up the gaps with Free Will and
                        Chance, he has felt the need of reinstating into this discontinuous and
                        parti?coloured scheme of things a First Cause who shall satisfy the moral
                        cravings of man.
                    According to a favourite theological habit, Professor James sees in these
                        moral cravings an implied promise that they must be satisfied. Now,
                        satisfaction is undoubtedly connected with demand. Only, a demand does not
                        imply that its satisfaction is actually taking place, but rather the
                        contrary. We suffer very keenly from the insufficient morality of the
                        universe. This is a reason for our trying to increase it by our own efforts
                        and in our own sphere; it is not a reason for supposing that the very cause
                        of our suffering is really trying to diminish our doing so. Why not believe
                        at once that there must be a fire hidden somewhere in a room because we feel
                        ourselves perishing with cold? Let us make up a fire ourselves, and all will
                        be set right.
                    Right for some persons, but evidently not for others. What they want is not
                        to be warm, but to feel sure that the host who has (in their view) invited
                        them to his house, has disliked the notion of their being cold. Any increase
                        in Good which Man brings into things does not satisfy Man’s desire that
                        things should be good apart from him.
                    Hence another argument. No longer that we are mistaken in making such a fuss
                        about good and evil, but rather, that the very fuss we make will, in some
                        sort, oblige the First Cause to reveal how very, very much more good there
                        is in the universe than we ever guessed. This argument is, like all the
                            other arguments (and my
                        counter?arguments), as old as the hills. But Professor James has contrived
                        to put it into a form most modern and most scientific, alas! although to my
                        mind not very cogent. Since, of all devices for putting me in conceit with a
                        First Cause, the one least likely is that of representing the First Cause as
                        a Vivisector. For it is upon the description of the agonies and the terror
                        of a poor dog in the process, as Professor James consolingly puts it, of
                        “performing a function incalculably higher than that which prosperous canine
                        life admits of,” that is based the argument in question: if mankind could
                        only understand as much more of the universe and the purposes of the Creator
                        as the physiologist’s assistant understands of the uses of vivisection than
                        the vivisected dog, then surely mankind might be expected (as the dog would
                        be) to “religiously acquiesce” in being, so to speak, vivisected by the
                        divinity. This argument has seen so much service in various theological
                        forms, that it must evidently afford satisfaction to a large number of
                        persons with a will to believe sufficient to overcome certain repugnances.
                        But there are other persons to whom vivisection, even of dogs, is not a
                        subject for “religious acquiescence”; to whom the very wickedest imaginable
                        act would be to hide from the creature thus immolated any reason which might
                        justify, any good which might counterbalance, its unmitigated anguish. For
                        if there are minds so constituted as to require deism for their moral
                        well?being, even deism garnished with such analogies, there are certainly
                        many others (and perhaps even among really pious believers) who either break
                        loose from any deistic creed, as from a
                        species of Moloch worship, or remain within its pale, suffering frightful
                        doubts or stultifying their reason, merely because they have got enslaved to
                        the logical demand for some original cause of all things. Why has
                        Omnipotence allowed us to develop moral instincts which necessarily condemn
                        some of Omnipotence’s conspicuous proceedings? Why given us reason enough to
                        see only the evil, and withheld the extra amount which would have revealed
                        the eventual good? Surely one?half of religiously?constituted men and women
                        have suffered from this thought, whether expressed in symbols of original
                        sin and redemption through innocent blood, or awakened quite
                        unmetaphorically by the individual cruelties of Fate. For there are worse
                        things to think of than even the Brockton murderer (to whom Professor James
                        perhaps unnecessarily introduces us), and which stick more in one’s throat,
                        mine at least, than any human act of meanness and brutality. Cast your eye
                        over the circle of your own acquaintance and you will understand what I
                        mean: cases where two creatures are separated by death at the moment of a
                        tardy, sighed?for union; worse, cases where a creature, who has never had
                        any gladness in life, sees its poor little candle of happiness snuffed out
                        in a few months, or weeks, with the life of a wife or husband; cases where
                        we are abashed at the bare thought of offering condolence, and which exist
                        at every moment and in every street. Is the thought of such things as these
                        made more supportable by the belief that the Creator might have made them
                        seem less bad if only he had cared?
                    To such of us as feel in this manner, a universe  whence the First Cause has been banished, like
                        the gods of Lucretius, seems a thing almost too good to be true. And some of
                        us, assuredly, have felt a new lease of moral life accompanying the gradual
                        or sudden recognition that all we know of good and of evil is confined to
                        man; that we are spiritually akin only to our own kind; and that the
                        ambiguous divinity, who has tortured us with good instincts and evil
                        examples, is but a Frankenstein’s Monster of our own making.
                
                
                    VII
                    But to those who have suffered from them, such thoughts are too painful
                        almost to bear recalling; the recollection thereof, like that of Dante’s
                        forest, renews the horror.
                    So let us turn to the more human side of this controversy, which, viewed in a
                        kindly spirit, is not without its pleasant humours. For on few occasions
                        does the ingenuous self?importance of mankind show out more than when
                        mankind sets about making its graven images. The practical activities of
                        life, and the scientific ones, are hampered by material facts and
                        intellectual necessities often foreign to the individual; and even artistic
                        creation, one of man’s freest activities, is, after all, limited by
                        questions of school and fashion, of teachers and of public. But each
                        individual is working for himself solely and solitarily, expressing only his
                        own wants and likings, when busy about the idol labelled God.
                    
                    Talk of monotheism, forsooth! Why there are as many gods as there are
                        believers, and even more, for each believer may make himself a whole Olympus
                        full in a lifetime, each god, of course, being, turn about, the true one.
                        Take, for instance, the matter of liking and disliking, or rather of
                        disliking, for in most people personality shows more in that. We all of us
                        proceed on the assumption that God cannot like what we dislike, nor dislike
                        what we like; and if we all agree that he cannot possibly like evil, it is
                        simply because evil admits of as many specifications as there are persons to
                        do the specifying. I personally cannot believe that God can like
                        vivisection; but Professor James, as we have seen, has compared God to a
                        person engaged in that pursuit; on the other hand, it is plain that
                        Professor James thinks that God cannot bear people who think like M. Renan,
                        who, in his turn (as regards irony and indulgence rightly) perhaps surmised
                        that God thought very much like himself. Meanwhile Mr. Ruskin, not without
                        show of reason, thought God could not possibly like St. Peters; Galileo, a
                        religious savant, that God could not like the Ptolemaic System; Origen, and
                        other early Christians catalogued in Flaubert’s Temptations of St.
                            Anthony, that God could not possibly like Sex; some other early
                        Christians (and later transcendental philosophers)that God could still less
                        possibly like a Material Universe. And meanwhile, among these conflicting
                        statements, the one thing at all demonstrably certain is the existence of
                        St. Peters, the Ptolemaic System, Sex, the Material Universe, and all the
                        rest; and the one thing logically presumable is that since they do exist,
                        the cause of all existence must have been
                        somehow mixed up in their existing ....
                    I have said that people’s religious views are even more determined (for I am
                        fatally incapable of believing in a free will to believe) by
                        their dislikings than by their likings. Dislike is a stronger feeling, as a
                        rule, than liking; it is also one which suffers much more from need of
                        sympathy (since the thing you like is in a way company), and, therefore,
                        cries out for some one to share it. Moreover, there may be a degree of truth
                        in the statement of certain pessimistic philosophers, that owing to some
                        mysterious internal arrangement, mental or bodily, dislike—or as some people
                        call it, disapproval, reprobation—gives a maximum of activity with a minimum
                        of work, in other words, pleasure; gives you a sort of comfortable feeling
                        of something to push against, and generally enlarges the happy flow of the
                        vital spirits. I do not wish to be responsible for this notion; personally I
                        am always trying to believe that I do not like disliking, and even if my
                        practice bear it out, I feel I—well, I am bound to use the word—I
                            dislike the theory of the pleasantness of disliking. Let me
                        therefore appeal to the authority of Professor James, and thereby also end
                        this digression on what we expect from our graven images, by resorting to
                        what Professor James apparently expects from the one which he worships:—
                    “When, ...” he writes, “we believe that a God is there, and that he is one of
                        the claimants ... the strenuous mood awakens at the sound. It saith among
                        the trumpets ha! ha! it smelleth the battle afar off; the thunder of the
                        captains and the shouting. Its blood
                            is up; and cruelty to lesser claims, so far from being a deterrent
                            element, does but add to the stern joy with which it leaps to answer to
                            the greater.”
                    This is tremendous; and the passage I have italicised inspires me with fear
                        of what may, some day, befall certain persons mentioned in previous pages of
                        the Volume. I feel reassured, however, on reflecting that M. Renan and
                        Professor Clifford, and especially Hegel, are safely gathered to their
                        fathers; that there are neither Alexandrian libraries to burn nor witches
                        (or, rather, the latter would be salaried as mediums); and that Jacobin
                        clubs, if they arise nowadays, are sure to guillotine at once so great a man
                        of science as Professor James at the instigation of some nostrum?dealing
                        Marat.
                    The God in whom Professor James wills to believe himself, and
                        also wills that his neighbours should do alike, is, as the above quotation
                        has suggested to the reader, essentially a Man of War. Now it is no good,
                        even for a divinity, to be a Man of War in time of peace. Peace, therefore,
                        is not at all what Professor James looks forward to (indeed, he more than
                        once symbolises it as a tea?table presided over by Mr. Herbert Spencer), but
                        rather a universe which shall be a happy hunting?ground for good and active
                        men, presided over by a good and active God, with a certain amount of
                        wickedness and misery preserved in it on purpose. And here is really
                        Professor James’s solution, not so much reasoned and explicit, but
                        constitutional and implied, of the existence of evil. It becomes good as a
                        necessary condition of the exercise of goodness. “Not the absence of vice,”
                        he exclaims, “but Vice there, and Virtue
                        holding it by the throat, seems the ideal human state”; and this being the
                        case, it becomes plain that a perfectly good omnipotence could not have
                        created mankind less sinful than it is. Indeed, all possible objections are
                        forestalled by this conclusive view. For if one objected, that holding
                        anything by the throat is but a low?class employment for Virtue, and that
                        pleasure in cruelty to lesser claims smacks of our childish desire to be the
                        detective who may lie and cheat in order to circumvent cheats and liars, or
                        even, of our ancestors’ taste for fine avengers àla Titus Andronicus; if one suggested that a more amiable
                        ideal was set before us by Jesus Christ, a very little reflection would
                        prove that this was futile: that too much amiability would weaken the moral
                        muscle, and that in the ideal state the breed of villains, as in hunting
                        counties the breed of foxes, must be considered as sacred.
                    So much for Evil in the form of Vice. Professor James goes further in his
                        justification of the First Cause. If vice is required for the sake of
                        keeping mankind actively virtuous, a certain amount of misery is quite as
                        necessary to enable mankind to feel happiness. For—
                    “Regarded as a stable finality, every outward good (and Professor James, by
                        specifying innocence, also adds every inner grace) becomes a
                        mere weariness to the flesh. It must be menaced, be occasionally lost, for
                        its goodness to be fully felt as such. Nay, more than occasionally lost. No
                        one knows the worth of innocence till he knows it is gone for ever.” And so
                        on.
                    
                    That is conclusive. But if, therefore, this is the best of all possible
                        universes, and its being bad is just a part of its goodness, why then there
                        is no problem of evil at all, and there was no need for a will to
                            believe in Chance, in Free Will, in ultimate justice on the human
                        pattern, and in the Divinity being a kindly Vivisector. The best of all
                        possible First Causes must evidently have created the best of all possible
                        universes; and we might, without more ado, have rested in the optimism of
                        Dr. Pangloss, as set forth by Voltaire in his Candide.
                
                
                    VIII
                    But that immortal handbook of philosophy contains another saying which suits
                        me and those who will not to believe, better; a saying less
                        cosmic, no doubt, but easier to understand and act upon. “Tous les
                        évènements sont enchainés dans le meilleur des mondes possible; car enfin,
                        si vous n’aviez pas été chassé d’un beau château à grands coups de pied,
                        &c., &c. .... Cela est bien dit, répondit Candide;
                            mais il faut cultiver notre jardin.”
                    Now, in the first place, it seems to me that the Panglossian theology, where
                        he has adopted it, has betrayed Professor James into a statement which is
                        damaging to the fruitful garden of human nature; when, in order to explain
                        away the presence of misery in the world, he has insisted that without it we
                        should cease to perceive happiness. But I have studied modern psychology in
                        the splendid work of quite a different
                        Professor, William James (also of Harvard however, and who has collaborated
                        in all the finest part of the present volume with his namesake), and can
                        therefore state theoretically, what for the rest I should have always
                        expected, that no one believes any longer in the old notions of necessary
                        relativity between items of cognition; and that hot is hot, smooth is
                        smooth, pleasant is pleasant, owing to direct relations between outer
                        objects and ourselves, and would be so if cold, and rough, and disagreeable
                        had remained in mente dei. And thus the
                        normal human being requires no set?off to happiness, since he is so
                        compounded that the mere ordinary variations in himself and his surroundings
                        afford the variety necessary for it to be conscious. Hunger and
                        satisfaction, sleep and waking, exercise and rest, alternate with each other
                        in a rhythm of change and repetition requiring no stimulus of starvation or
                        insomnia or ennui; even as the
                        never?ending alternations of day and night, seasons and places, the
                        never?ending changefulness of charm in material beauty and in the things of
                        the intellect and the sentiment, require no irrelevance of hideousness, or
                        wickedness, or unintelligibility (though such is furnished us in plenty!) to
                        make us keenly enjoy them. Nay, health itself, which seems a relative
                        conception, is a very positive reality, letting us know its presence by the
                        joyousness and energy in which the very thought of disease is utterly
                        forgotten. The powers of the universe have indeed, alas, given mankind hard
                        things to suffer; but let us do them justice: they have not made that
                        suffering a condition of happiness, like Professor  James’s Creator (and Created?) of restless and
                            blasés mortals.
                    Thus much of the little garden which the experienced hero of Voltaire urged
                        us to cultivate: the garden of strictly human capacities, human morality,
                        human logic, human sense of beauty and fitness, all bounded by the faculties
                        of man; nay, perhaps all contained within man’s limited faculties, and
                        created by them: for who can tell what wilderness of Realities may lie
                        beyond, of wilderness or even of not being? I do not mean by this that we
                        should check the passionate desire and speculation about that beyond.
                        Indeed, the mirages which mankind sees beyond the flaming bounds of space
                        and time are, in my opinion, as much an integral part of the human enclosure
                        whence they are projected as the images thrown out by a magic lantern belong
                        in reality to the room where they seem not to be, rather than to the stage
                        across which they appear to move. Nay, among the things in this garden,
                        wherein we are thus fatally enclosed, let us cherish as among the choicest
                        some of these same fata morgana sights
                        which it projects on to the inane beyond. Our ideas of an order of the
                        universe, when such ideas are the result of mankind’s wish for harmony and
                        justice, are, after all, a kind of reality, a reality to the faculties which
                        produce them; and the divine figures, radiant in triumph, or ineffably
                        touching in sorrow, who have heightened the joy and softened the suffering
                        of the ages that are gone, have not only been the finest realities to those
                        who believed in their objective existence, but ought, were we modest and
                        wise, to remain among the most real 
                        existences for the feeling of those who, like me, believe them to be but
                        subjective creations. And in the falling to pieces of the old creeds, and
                        the extrication therefrom of the various possible modes of conceiving a
                        union of the spirit of man with the universe, Professor James has surely
                        forgotten the best.
                    He dismisses as immoral such union as consists of a mere knowledge of God by
                        his ways, and decides in favour of a union with God by co?operation with his
                        intentions, by the conforming of our action to his wish. But besides these
                        modes of unification, there remains another, which can be traced in the
                        sentiment, if not in the dogma, of most of the creeds of the past, and in
                        the instincts of many agnostics of the present, in the utterances of all
                        great poets, believing or unbelieving, in the forefront of whom, with his
                        hymn to the Sun, stands Francis of Assisi. I am speaking of the unification
                        by love. By love, not as submission, but as enjoyment. There is a stage of
                        consciousness which Professor James apparently omits in his list, or
                        confuses with one of the other stages: the stage not of perception, nor of
                        cognition, nor of volition, but of a consummation which seems the result,
                        and teleologically speaking, the rational end of the never?ceasing flux of
                        action from without and reaction from within. One may say of it, with
                        Goethe’s Chorus Mysticus, “hier wirds
                        Ereignis”; but it is the attainable, not the unattainable, which is
                        accomplished. Sensitiveness, cognition, volition, action; is there not in
                        this incessant circling chain an omitted link called
                            satisfaction? For satisfaction, to which all human states tend (however balked in so doing),
                        is in its turn the great replenisher of the various activities which
                        subserve it. Can we grasp the universe, make it ours, assimilate as much of
                        it as possible, in a fashion more complete than when we enjoy the universe,
                        love it, make use of the universe joyfully? Nay, is it not this
                        state of consummation, of satisfaction, of identification of man’s wants and
                        nature’s possibilities, the only state in which the old problem of evil is
                        solved, is banished and forgotten?
                    Not all that we know of the universe and the universe’s ways conduces to
                        this. Far from it. But what do cognition, volition, action, strive after
                        save diminishing to the utmost our occasion of coming in contact with such
                        of the ways of the universe as offend us? Perception, thought, decision, are
                        all of them combined in an effort, which becomes ceaselessly more complex,
                        to avoid pain and obtain pleasure, to forego the smaller pleasure for the
                        sake of the larger, to avoid the greater pain by taking counsel of the
                        smaller. All these activities tend, as I have said, to a state of harmony
                        with our surroundings, a state of appreciation, of love of the happiness we
                        feel.
                    And this state is just the one in which it becomes easiest to believe that
                        what we call Evil may be merely what is unsuitable to us, and what, once
                        eliminated from our neighbourhood, may find some proper sphere elsewhere,
                        and become good to organisms different from ours. It is this kind of
                        religious feeling which, in Antiquity and the Middle Ages, gave birth to
                        art, man’s one successful attempt to extract only good from the universe.
                        And it is, very likely, in the short 
                        spells of such feeling that mankind has recovered strength sufficient to
                        endure, to hope, and to strive.
                
                
                    VIII
                    This also is a matter of individual constitution and habit. Those who require
                        such a way of looking at life, inevitably will to believe in
                        its possibility, and thereby realise it; for in matters of feeling, even if
                        in no others, wishes are really horses and we all may ride.
                    And herewith I return to my starting?point, to wit, that the chief use of
                        such speculations as these of Professor James’s, and the use, I trust also,
                        of my answers thereto, is to make us acquainted with various and equally
                        desirable types of mind, each with its uses and drawbacks.
                    Is it possible for these different types of mind ever fully to understand the
                        nature, the habits of each other? Will it be possible, for instance, for
                        Professor James to realist that the writer of these notes is one of his
                        warmest admirers? And is it then possible for me, while marshalling my
                        counter?arguments, to remember the hundred points of agreement, the hundred
                        luminous suggestions with which Professor James’s essays have delighted
                        me?
                    Alas, perhaps not. Of all things in the world, thorough perception of one’s
                        neighbour’s existence is, on the whole, the most difficult. But in
                        proportion to the difficulty should be the effort. Particularly on the part
                        of those who, like myself, will to believe that man’s highest work is the realisation of a
                        human ideal; and that the only Godhead which can make binding laws for man,
                        is the divinity consubstantiate with his best self, and shaped in the
                        glorified image of those he loves most.
                
            
            
            
                ROSNY AND THE FRENCH ANALYTICAL NOVEL
                
                ROSNY AND THE FRENCH ANALYTICAL NOVEL
                
                    I
                    SHALL we ever obtain this truth which all novelists
                        seem striving after, or have we ever obtained it—truth,
                            subjective truth even, such as we find it, for instance, in
                        Rousseau’s “Confessions,” or in certain veiled autobiographies, like
                        “Werther” and “Adolphe”?
                    A hundred reasons prevent the novelist from working with absolute fidelity to
                        life; and reluctance to abuse confidence, to hurt the feelings of his
                        models, is the least important of these reasons. The strongest reason is
                        that reality is reality, defies presentation by its complexity; that a
                        mutilated, isolated, arranged reality, with cause and effect freely upset,
                        is no reality at all; moreover, that it is doubtful whether any one save a
                        professional novelist would give a thank you for real reality in a novel.
                        Reality is valuable to us only as the raw material for something very
                        different; the artistic sense alters it into patterns, the logical faculty
                        reduces it to ideas. Except for individual action, the individual case,
                        which is the only reality, has no final importance.
                    
                    But the novelist continues to delude himself; he piques himself upon the
                        quality he cannot get. Most novelists (and the more deliberately realistic
                        the worse) treat human life and character by a system of scientific
                        fictions, deliberately simplifying phenomena till they become abstractions,
                        diagrams; they pretend to explain as the result of a single factor of
                        grossly exaggerated importance what must have been the result of a dozen or
                        a hundred factors. So, the real action copied from life is made the centre
                        of a circle of unrealities.
                    Again, most novelists practise realism by explaining the unknown in one real
                        personage by the known in another real personage, most commonly their own
                        self. They fuse together two creatures of the same category, and think that
                        two half organisms must necessarily make one whole, forgetting, alas! that
                        you can unite only such parts as complete each other, but not such others as
                        are either duplicates or substitutes; producing by such arrangements sirens
                        and minotaurs, creatures who could not have assimilated with a bird’s
                        gizzard or a ruminant’s stomach the food which must have passed through a
                        human gullet or set in motion human limbs. At best they patch up centaurs,
                        decorative animals who can trot and caper, because the artist paints them
                        trotting and capering, but who have two stomachs and two pairs of lungs,
                        those of the man and those of the horse, a reduplication which natural
                        selection and Dr. Weissmann’s “Law of Panmixia” render improbable.
                    Is this exaggeration? Scarcely. Is not a Père Goriot, for instance, an
                        agglomeration of the parental quality of
                        at least a dozen parents, something analogous to the creature on the Shield
                        of Sicily and the Isle of Man, made of three legs without a head or arms?
                        The day will perhaps come when biological psychology and the study of
                        individual cases, when, above all, a scientific habit of mind, will accustom
                        us to the notion that an individual cannot be anything except himself; that
                        if a real Tom were fused with a real Dick, and both with a real Harry, there
                        would be an end to the three realities without the birth of a fourth one. We
                        may then learn, perhaps, how real people are made up of various strands; the
                        necessary fashion in which grandfather Falstaff reacts on great?grandfather
                        Hamlet; and how maternal grandmother Clarissa Harlowe is modified or
                        neutralised by paternal grandmother Becky Sharp; nay, what colour of hair
                        and skin, what voice and gait, what physiological affinities and repulsions
                        the various living puppets of the world’s stage can have.
                    Meanwhile, the psychological novelist traffics in people’s ignorance, and men
                        like Bourget and Maupassant manufacture individuals and types much as our
                        earliest ancestors made up bird?women, bull?men, and that magnificent human
                        document, the bronze chimæra of Arezzo.
                    Luckily, there are still novelists without scientific pretensions, without
                        mania for reality; or, shall we say, luckily there is among novelists a
                        certain amount of intuition, of that synthetic and sympathetic creation
                        which is genius. I will not even speak of Tolstoi. Far lesser men, like
                        Björnsen and Rosny, have given us work which is intuitive and genial. They do not make up a complete skeleton
                        for sale out of odd bones picked out of the heap (I knew such a skeleton
                        once, the property of a painter; it had French legs and the skull and spine
                        of a Dutchman). They tell us about creatures not objectively real, but not
                        subjectively unreal, who have come to exist by a spontaneous stratification
                        of impressions, in the transmuting heat of liking and disliking; creatures
                        who have life because born of the life, the preferences and aversions, the
                        passionate hope and hostility of the author.
                    For the rest, should we regret the novelist’s incapacity to compass reality?
                        Surely not. No book, only experience, could teach us to know the individual.
                        Indeed, there is no individual to know; since what we take for one is merely
                        the impression made on ourselves by the ever?shrouded, mysterious selves of
                        other folk. The novel cannot teach us to know the individual. But it can
                        teach us certain general—very general—facts about classes and the
                        surroundings of classes. It can teach us the influences to which individuals
                        are subjected, whether of bodily crisis or of social position. Thus, all
                        children cut their teeth and crawl on the floor; all girls gradually evolve
                        into women; all people change; all people have material wants, social
                        ideals, national peculiarities. What if we might have known all this without
                        the novelist’s pseudo?realities? We should not have found it out so
                        efficiently, so universally; we should have known these things piecemeal,
                        superficially, always alike too late in the day, for want of something to
                        make it worth our while—of something to catch our attention and enlist
                            our sympathies. Now, the novelist
                        makes it worth our while. By interesting us in the unreal creatures,
                        children of his wishes or diagrams of his analysis, he accustoms us to take
                        interest in the living mysteries who walk, act, and suffer all round us. And
                        when he is a great novelist—not an analyst, not a copyist of the actual, but
                        a sympathetic artist, a passionate lover of the human creature—he can do
                        infinitely more: he can people our fancy with living phantoms whom we love,
                        he can enrich our life by the strange power called charm.
                
                
                    II
                    I doubt whether Rosny will ever be popular, despite the force and the
                        thoroughly human warmth of his genius. He is full of arduousness, of
                        splendid qualities which take energy and intelligence to enjoy, mixed with
                        unimportant defects which require even more energy and intelligence to
                        overlook; for, after all, is there not an art of appreciation, like an art
                        of living, which consists in making the most of what is fruitful and
                        pleasant, and disregarding what is tiresome and to no purpose? There are not
                        many good readers (though there be many subtle critics) in the world; but,
                        to such good readers as there are, Rosny, like Browning, will give much in
                        return for much.
                    Speaking of Browning, Rosny always reminds me a little of Browning’s
                        Grammarian; there is in him a combination or discord between rare
                        distinction, amounting to exquisiteness sometimes, and a certain  denseness and pedantry, which we feel sure that
                        Grammarian had also, going to be buried on the top of his rock, untidy,
                        unkempt, having walked past much of the sweetness and beauty of life, nay,
                        stumbled over it, in his absorption over the enclitic ??.
                    Rosny possesses what among living French novelists is rather unique than
                        rare—sincerity; he wishes to please himself, he does not make himself up for
                        sale. Sincerity; and hence the highest kind of distinction—personal
                        preference. He does not cast about him for subjects which have not yet been
                        treated; he does not seek for the exotic in the wares of the Far East or in
                        the Parisian dust?heap. His singular originality—the new views of life, the
                        new kind of characters (his charming class of nature?lovers, men with
                        intuition and sympathy for clouds, plants, beasts) which he gives us are due
                        to the fact of his being a human individuality, full of individual likings
                        and dislikings, long before he is a writer. Before setting about rather
                        arduously describing, analysing, making things live again, he knows
                        perfectly well that he cares for them in themselves, that they seem to him
                        full of intrinsic importance. One feels sure, in dealing with Rosny, that he
                        would have liked to read about the things he likes to write
                        about; that they are for him what savages and virgin forests are to his
                        little friend in “l’Impérieuse Bonté,” what storms and seas are to the
                        doctor in “Renouveau,” what the poor abortions are to the divinely kind
                        women in that strange book of his on charity. Rosny’s distinction of nature,
                        his real aristocratic quality (as opposed to the odd impotencies and
                        depravities which other French novelists cherish as signs of superiority!) is also shown in that love
                        for cleanness and strength which underlies his surgeon’s, nay, his sick
                        nurse’s tenderness towards disease and suffering. He sees that strength
                        alone can be divine; not, as a brutal misunderstanding of Darwinism is for
                        ever telling us, because strength can crush weakness; but because, on the
                        contrary, only through strength can weakness be compensated, neutralised,
                        reclaimed. To the strong, the wise, the rich shall be given, because by them
                        alone can more be given in return. The full personal life, according to
                        Rosny, is the life which transcends mere personal wants and interests, or,
                        rather, whose wants and interests are those also of others.
                    The little story called “Daniel Valgraive,” though by no means among Rosny’s
                        most satisfactory work, is extremely significant of his temper and
                        tendencies. It is a story of a man’s victorious struggle with creeping
                        death; death which is stealthily invading all his nobler part, trying to
                        beat his soul back to the microscopic central ego, trying to canalise his last vigour into mere bitterness
                        and envy. Valgraive is victorious. In him “la fatalité du bien” is
                        irresistible, and death loses its sting. He lives, to the last moment of his
                        life, in community with the life universal; and, instead of being
                        extinguished before the bodily dissolution, his soul survives yet awhile, in
                        the impulse of happiness it has given, in the love it has left.
                    Rosny has given us the reverse case in the painful and over?elaborate study
                        called “Le Termite.” Noël Servaise, destroyed piecemeal by bodily pain, is
                        narrowing closer and closer; his tortured nerves perceive other folk only as
                        obstacles and enemies, the world as a vague, dreadful antagonist. Each time that the crisis of his malady is over,
                        that the bodily agony is staved off for a time by liberation from the
                        constantly re?forming calculus, the man becomes capable, to an extent at
                        least, of liberation from his hideous self. Liberated, if only in the
                        possibility of selfish love, of sensitiveness to the kindlier aspects of
                        Nature, he knows joy, which is a union, however humble, with what is not his
                        own wretched ego. One guesses that he may,
                        if time be given, become almost capable of love. Or will the calculus,
                        inexorably gathered together in his flesh, turn him back in agony on
                        himself? This hero of the “Termite” is the outcast of Nature, the
                            creature who should never have been; the creature born of the
                        selfishness of others, of the shortcomings of our civilisation; the creature
                        who deserves all the patience and understanding and tenderness of those who,
                        unlike himself, can have patience and understanding and tenderness.
                    Of Rosny, further. The pedantic element shows itself, like nearly all
                        intellectual and moral defects, in a lack of harmony between the writer and
                        his subject; between the observer and the world; in a disproportion a
                        separateness between the individual ego
                        and the myriad multifold egos all round—the besetting sin of the whole
                        French school of novelists, beginning with Balzac. Hence he lacks that sense
                        of the mystery of other folk, nay, almost of the mystery of oneself, which
                        makes the very greatest novelists so respectfully delicate in their handling
                        of the human soul, even the cynical Stendhal, the jocular Thackeray; and
                        which distinguishes so immeasurably the two greatest novelists of our
                        age—Browning and Tolstoi. Rosny thinks
                        that he can penetrate into a human creature as he could penetrate, with
                        knife and microscope, into a plant or a dead limb. He does not feel that the
                        reality of another can never be coextensive, much less consubstantial, with
                        any formula, or definition, or description; since our formulas, definitions,
                        and descriptions are limited and conditioned by our individual experience
                        and nature: The world is so vast, and every human soul so immense (the human
                        soul which is, who knows? perhaps the close?packed soul stuff of a thousand
                        ancestors), that whenever we paint, nay, see any portion thereof in minutest
                        detail, we do so at the price of a monstrously disproportionate picture or
                        vision; the flea’s proboscis becomes that of an elephant, while the table or
                        chair hard by becomes, by comparison, mere toy?box furniture. And Rosny,
                        with unsuspecting awkwardness, calmly dismembering human life, does often
                        present us with such microscope nightmares. I am thinking of portions of the
                        otherwise splendid “Indomptée,” but particularly of that gruesome book “Le
                        Termite.” I do not blame him in the least for deliberately analysing
                        physical pain and its moral miseries. Such an analysis is, of course,
                        atrociously painful to the reader; but is it not fair that we should be
                        pained sometimes, in order to learn what pain others are feeling? And is it
                        not as well that we should realise the wretched ruin of so many lives,
                        considering that we have it in our power very often similarly to ruin the
                        life of our neighbours, our children, and of the unborn generations? The
                        moral object is surely legitimate. What I object to in Rosny—and, for the
                        matter of that, in nearly all novelists of the  French analytic school—is that the psychological
                        method is faulty. All these accounts of pain, greater or less, lack one of
                        pain’s most essential features—its evanescence; as, for the matter of that,
                        all analysis of life lacks life’s chief characteristic—change, instability.
                        Rosny’s hero probably did not realise the agonies of his crisis, once those
                        agonies were over, in anything like the way in which we are made to realise
                        them; for there is in literature a power of fixing impression, making it
                        uniform and uniformly continuous, causing, as it were, the water which would
                        run off in its natural channels to return for ever and ever by the
                        artificial mechanism of a fountain. And this, the chief fault of Rosny, is
                        the fault, of course, of less sincere and less genial writers, like
                        Huysmans. In the case of Rosny’s Noël Servaise, life, however honeycombed by
                        suffering, was not composed solely thereof; however huge a minute, nay, a
                        second, of pain, the painless minutes must take up a certain room; they are
                        not eliminated by life, as they are eliminated by literary craft. If the
                        novelist is to magnify, and all literature must magnify, it is
                        not fair to magnify only one kind of life’s many tissues. But the analytical
                        Frenchman—and, alas! this great and delightful Rosny, worse almost than
                        any—screw and screw at their lenses, magnify till the image enlarges to
                        bursting, and begins, luckily for the operator, to swim in mist.
                    This tendency is what makes much of the odiousness of French novelists’
                        treatment of female characters; they are not all cads, they are often merely
                        literary pedants. Certainly, of all modern Frenchmen, Rosny is the most
                        respectful, the most tender and serious in his attitude to women. The young doctoress, Nell
                        Horn, above all, Eve, in the “Bilatéral,” are among the finest and most
                        charming women in all fiction. They are charming, they are such as we see
                        them, as a result of Rosny’s painting; but the process of painting, so long
                        as it goes on, is often such as one can barely watch without anger. Take
                        that Eve in the “Bilatéral.” Rosny gives us the material, he puts into our
                        possession the sympathetic spell which makes her live, live with
                        extraordinary fulness and charm of life; but at the same time he gives an
                        account of her which is false, and which we banish at once into the limbo of
                        the unlifelike. This charming young girl, under all her emancipated ideas,
                        is but a new?born woman awaking to her woman’s cravings for love and
                        motherhood; overcome sometimes by joy, sometimes by sadness, she knows not
                        why, wondering vaguely she knows not at what. But she cannot, for all her
                        familiarity with free?spoken men and pseudo?scientific books, she cannot, in
                        her young entireness, be conscious of the meaning of it all; she cannot,
                        however well she knows the names, realise, in her lack of all experience of
                        life and change, understand such things as phases and
                            crises. Now Rosny, perpetually harping on such matters,
                        perpetually offering us his explanation of Eve’s feelings,
                        turns the poor girl into a sort of walking physiologico?psychologic
                        demonstration; we see not merely what the girl sees of herself, but her
                        poor, innermost nature laid bare by the kind but intolerably blundering
                        hands of a pedant. In his immortal Natacha, Tolstoi has given us the case of
                        a girl situated much like Eve; she also is traversing a  crisis. We know it, but she does not; because
                        Tolstoi respectfully refrains from telling us in the girl’s presence the
                        secrets which she cannot yet comprehend. For surely there is one thing which
                        youth cannot know, which only experience can teach: that youth is a period
                        of stress, that experience will come, that life is but phase, change, and
                        the manifestation of hidden forces.
                    There is, perhaps, a dash of pedantry—there is certainly the usual French
                        seeking after literary novelty, apart from real interest, in Rosny’s strange
                        descriptions of nature. One is worried at familiar sights being described in
                        obscure terms of chemistry or botany; one resents, in this case also, quite
                        simple things, seen every day with the corner of the eye, being elaborated
                        into marvellous enigmatic visions, which strain one’s sight and
                        intelligence. But for all this Rosny does give one, like no other modern,
                        impressions of the splendour and mystery mingled in everyday things. Nay,
                        the very unintelligibility of the phraseology of those names of acids and
                        minerals and astronomic and botanic details reproduce some of the
                        unintelligible impressions which make the wonderfulness of certain skies,
                        certain night effects, tangles of vegetation, weirdnesses of town rubbish
                        and factory outlines, Aladdin’s palaces, built up we know not of what,
                        labyrinths and galaxies composed of unguessable material. In this, as in his
                        sympathy for profoundly intuitive natures, nay, with the life of dumb
                        creatures, of plants, and of seas and skies, Rosny seems to free us from the
                        weariness of those tiresome, workaday formulæ by which mankind, as it has
                        reduced the material world into a kind of Army and Navy Stores  for its feeding and housing, has reduced its own
                        thoughts and feelings to little better than a catalogue of the world’s
                        qualities as seen by the haberdasher and the caterer; nothing left for other
                        creatures, for the germs which live invisible in everything, or for the
                        angels who guide the storms and the stars.
                
                
                    III
                    Of course, Balzac was not the root of what I should call the psychological
                        and literary nuisance in the novel: the looking at life as a subject for
                        analysis and description, instead of analysing and describing such parts of
                        life as had been found interesting or fascinating in the process of
                        living.
                    It was not his example which made the modern French novel go the way it has
                        gone; his example would never have affected the Russians or the English. If
                        Balzac has unduly influenced his countrymen, and influenced them by his
                        faults even more than by his great qualities, it is surely because those
                        faults were inherent in the French literary type of our century—faults due
                        to the very strength of literary energy, the very richness of intellectual
                        perception by which modern France has differed from its more practical, more
                        sentimental, and, at all events, duller and more tongue?tied neighbours.
                    Balzac’s method—for it became a method, and one universally
                        imitated—consisted in writing about human beings, not according to the
                        manner in which they, or, the image of them, had affected him; but according
                             to the manner in which they would
                        present a most definite diagram, at best a most picturesque outline. He
                        describes not characters with one exaggerated peculiarity, but one
                        exaggerated, isolated peculiarity with a human person, a vague puppet,
                        sometimes barely more than a name and a physical presentment—Hulot, Grandet,
                        Pons, Rastignac—attached to it. As the medical boarder in the Pension
                        Vauquer, née de Conflan, says of him, the
                        Père Goriot is nothing but the Bump of Philoprogenitiveness.
                        The rest of the brain, one might say, has been cut away. Now the real way in
                        which the excessive preponderance of one portion of a character manifests
                        itself is by subordinating, silencing, pushing into a corner, sending to
                        sleep the other portion; but, for all this to happen, those other portions
                        must exist. To begin with, every human being possesses, besides his more
                        individual character, a sort of average character as human being, inherited
                        from his ancestors and acquired from his neighbours; the psychological life
                        of the one?sided person, of the monomaniac, consists in the gradual victory
                        over this character (and over everything in himself to which it is
                        attached), or in the gradual enslaving thereof in the service of that one
                        faculty. Balzac’s fault is to disregard or hide this uneven battle within
                        the individual, and substitute for it the mere outer fight with other folk
                        and with circumstances; hence, instead of the life of a human being, we get
                        a sociological diagram of forces and resistances. In order to realise this
                        fact, one should compare Balzac with another novelist, but belonging to the
                        human, non?analytic, non?literary sort, namely Thackeray, in his  treatment of one?sided character. Take Colonel
                        Newcome. He, too, might have been described as a bosse de la paternité rather than a whole human being. But in
                        him paternal fondness is connected with a half dozen cognate qualities. It
                        goes over into tenderness towards all young and weak creatures, it borders
                        on high chivalry; for qualities produce one another. But if Thackeray seem
                        insufficiently typical in his work, and Colonel Newcome seem insufficiently
                        paternal, take Shakespeare, and place by the side of Goriot no less a father
                        than King Lear. For him paternal infatuation, arises not, as with Colonel
                        Newcome, from readiness to love, but from a mania for being loved; and this
                        strange selfishness mixed with generosity goes over into jealousy,
                        graspiness, injustice, and that tragic alternation of rage and weakness, of
                        proud raillery and childish complaint. But Père Goriot’s paternal
                        infatuation arises from nothing, and is connected with nothing; it is
                        inorganic, at best utterly maniacal—in truth it is a literary diagram. How
                        unlike anything living must needs be to a diagram, we can all of us study in
                        observing one of the most one?sided, nay, one of the most maniacal varieties
                        of human being—the vain man. In him we can watch how, where the vanity does
                        not interfere, qualities of a very different kind can be very
                        active—intellectual interest, kindliness, honesty, the very qualities which
                        take a man most out of himself, the most incompatible with vanity; or else
                        we can watch, as in Meredith’s “Egoist,” how vanity, instead of
                        obliterating, will merely appropriate and enslave such qualities as clash
                        with it, until a man’s genuine impulses, his sincerest thoughts and
                            actions change their nature, find a
                        new basis, and become mere lies.
                    Different as are, for instance, Flaubert and Zola, they belong, nevertheless,
                        to the same school as Balzac, if we compare them with Tolstoi, Dostoievsky,
                        or even Björnsen. Flaubert, with his effects produced by extreme elimination
                        of detail, and Zola, so brimful and often overwhelming, are yet alike in the
                        fundamental character of writers whose knowledge proceeds from deliberate
                        study, and whose interest in the subject is due to its being a subject, and
                        a good one. One has, not unfrequently, the feeling that these great men have
                        sat down in front of the portion of life they have undertaken to treat,
                        after casting about for months and weeks for something to write about, and
                        one remembers the astonishing lamentations of certain contemporary novelists
                        interviewed by M. Huret, making enumerations of every recondite
                        unspeakableness with the melancholy comment, “on a déjà fair cela—on a même
                        fair cela.” About all writers of this school, major and minor, gods or mice,
                        it is clear to the reader that there is no reason for supposing them to have
                        anything to do with life in any form, to be alive, or to have been alive.
                        Were it not that we know, from different sources, that novels are written by
                        men, and that we run easily to anthropomorphism in all matters, we might
                        quite well put down “Le Père Goriot,” “La Cousine Bette,” “Mme. Bovary,”
                        “L’Assommoir,” and all the novels of MM. de Goncourt and of M. Huysmans to
                        the agency of some more or less divine Chance in the manner of Lucretius, or
                        to some wonderful literary machine, phonograph and camera combined with some contriving and superposing
                        mechanism for the automatic production of types.
                    Opposite to this school of analytical, literary, professional novelists like
                        Balzac, there exists, in sharpest contrast, the school of sympathising,
                        personal, in a way unprofessional novelists, whose greatest representative
                        is Tolstoi; and which, with no idea of derivation, but merely to give one of
                        the most marvellous literary personalities his due, I should call the
                            school of Stendhal.
                    The novel of this school, which has representatives in all countries—for the
                        greatest novelists, from the author of “Manon Lescaut” to the author of
                        “Vanity Fair,” all belong to it—the novel of this school seems not written,
                        but lived. It affects us as being so much of life which the author has gone
                        through, and he seems to us to be lurking always in one—nay, sometimes in
                        all—of the characters: that life has indeed been lived by the author, not in
                        the body, most likely, but in the spirit; he has really been one of those
                        characters in the fervour of sympathetic creation, for there is nothing here
                        which has been observed, constructed, invented—it has been a reality, an
                        inevitable sequence in the imaginative experience of the writer. What such
                        novelists tell us has the weight of the words of an eyewitness; it has even,
                        frequently, increasing that weight, an eyewitness’s vagueness and
                        unaccountableness. For the man in whose presence (or in whose soul) certain
                        things have actually taken place, does not know about them with the same
                        sort of clearness as the man who has followed a deliberate experiment, or
                        reconstructed the how things must have happened by a process of circumstantial logic. And there is in
                        life—life spontaneous, flowing, complete, not life artificially arranged by
                        experiment—an inevitable share of vagueness, due to the fact that all life
                        is, after all, the perception thereof by one creature at one moment, full
                        therefore of gaps and lapses. Neither is there in life any unity of point of
                        view, hence no stable system of outlines or of colouring. Nothing is less
                        like life, that is to say, like our experience, than that marvellous
                        solidity, all?roundness, fulness, and almost distressing
                            projection of the analytic school of novel. It is quite
                        possible—contrary to the opinion of impressionists—that a painted picture
                        full of extreme detail should give us a satisfactory sense of realisation;
                        because, like the picture itself, the real objects are in most cases
                        stationary, allowing us to take in their detail, deliberately to sit and
                        stare. But life does not allow you to sit and stare; at least, it is not the
                        same portion of life which we are sitting in front of and staring at. It is
                        only by photographing the single instances, and then patching them together
                        by a sort of reversed analysis; it is only by thinking it out
                        that we ever know very clearly how anything ever happens. Clearness is a
                        desideratum, a product of the human mind, which life itself has no use for.
                        Hence there is something convincing in the very vagueness with which, as
                        with a real atmosphere, the unanalytical novelists frequently envelop events
                        and persons. We feel Manon Lescaut to have lived and died, because we feel
                        Des Grieux’s love and despair. She is a phantom, but a real one, as are the
                        lovers and sweethearts unseen by us, but not unfelt, of our friends. We understand Mme. Bovary, Cousine Bette,
                        Rougon, Numa Roumestan, or the hero of “En Route”; and in a certain measure
                        we do not understand, we cannot account for all their doings,
                        Natacha, Levine, the little heroine of Björnsen’s “In God’s Ways,” or
                        Stendhal’s Duchess, or Julien Sorel; but, unless we are singularly
                        presumptuous and deluded, neither do we understand with any such fearful
                        certainty our nearest and dearest, nay, ourselves.
                    As it is with the personages, so it is, to a certain extent, with the places.
                        We know that town in Norway, that house at Moscow, with the mixture of
                        clearness and vagueness of real places in our memory. Above all, with a very
                        definite and special emotion; whereas the places in Balzac, Zola, and even
                        in Flaubert (think of Flaubert’s Carthage!) are such as we know very
                        distinctly at the moment of looking at them, even as we know pictures, but
                        with no mood attaching to them, and quite without that indefinable
                        familiarity which tells us, however vaguely, about the omitted parts: where
                        that road leads to, and what there is on the other side of that block of
                        houses or group of trees; a sort of halo of knowledge, which means that, in
                        body or in spirit, we have been in those places.
                
                
                    IV
                    There is another, and a far graver objection to be made against this, that I
                        have called the professional or literary school of novel: it is morally arid
                        in its perpetual pessimism; it refuses the reader what, after  all, we claim from literature, as from other art,
                        more imperiously than we claim skill, imagination, knowledge, or even the
                            sense of life, and that is the sense that life is
                            good. We are made neither more happy nor more fit for happiness
                        by the perpetual insistence on the ugly side of things, the perpetual
                        assurance of this hopelessness. Moreover, if we are at all normally
                        constituted, with the normal experience of good and evil, we recognise not
                        merely that such a view of life is false, but also, when it becomes
                        universal in a writer or a school of writers, that it is not at all—how
                        express it?—well, not at all noble. For such a pessimistic
                        attitude—the attitude of Flaubert, Zola, the Goncourts, Maupassant, let
                        alone all the little masters—renders the attainment of artistic
                        impressiveness quite infinitely easier. Nay, it becomes an almost
                        mechanical, automatic method for awakening the kind of emotion which is,
                        after all, the crudest of any—the black mood. It is significant that whereas
                        Shakespeare alternates serenity with gloom, sadness with joy, expressing
                        life, and various aspects in words sometimes heroically gay, sometimes
                        bitter and hopeless, the lesser men, Marston, Webster, Tourneur or Ford,
                        know only horrors and misery, and only a philosophy of pessimistic vanity or
                        stoical indifference. For an unmixed kind of emotion is easier to deal with
                        than any kind of alternation, a harmony is easier to construct out of few
                        elements than many; and of all kinds of emotions the gloomy is the easiest
                        to play upon; an artistic element more easy to manage. It takes the highest
                        genius to mingle and harmonise the sad and the joyous, the easily lived and
                        the painfully felt, as in Tolstoi’s marvellous  symphonies. And it is even more
                        difficult—impossible for any length of time—to play on the tonalities of
                        unmixed optimism. Hence it is quite natural that a people so artistically
                        constructed as the French, a school of writers so superbly literary, should
                        succumb to artistic dodgery, to school methods and royal roads; the novel,
                        like a certain sort of painting, has become in France so organised as to be
                        virtually à la portée de tous. Now, of
                        such School methods and literary royal roads, pessimism is one of the most
                        obvious. It is a method and a mannerism.
                    Pessimism gives, moreover, a false sense of superiority both to the writer
                        and the reader. The reader feels, in dealing with imaginary miseries as
                        matters of course, that he is endowed with fortitude and not to be duped by
                        the powers above; the writer gains a Promethean attitude which immensely
                        increases his sense of power. Nay, the very sensitiveness and honesty of a
                        man will be warped into such a cheap view of life. It takes an enormous dose
                        of either to resist the tendency to be pitiful or sarcastic where there is
                        nothing to be pitiful or sarcastic about; one needs to be very honest to be,
                        so to speak, theoretically, nay more, rhetorically honest with
                        life’s deserts and shortcomings. And the literary instinct, the artistic
                        traditions of our French contemporaries have apparently cost them this
                        higher, this thoroughly independent sensitiveness and honesty towards
                        life.
                    Of none of them does one feel this so acutely, I think, as of Maupassant, and
                        in exact proportion to his admirable literary qualifies. Think of a book
                        like “Bel Ami.” Everyone, alas, who has lived at all in the world (and particularly in the plain speaking
                        world of the Latins) has heard stories like those making up this novel; and
                        has, many a time, had people pointed out who would have fitted into it. But
                        all this, as one has caught whiffs from drains and sinks, with tolerably
                        breathable air between. Maupassant seems to live permanently in these
                        stenches, his thoughts, during the elaboration of a volume of three hundred
                        and fifty closely printed pages, know nothing else; and that he should have
                        enjoyed the writing, and any person the reading, strikes me as scarcely
                        human. It is by comparison with a book like “Bel Ami” that one sees what it
                        is that makes Zola endurable. That very element which mars the
                        homogeneousness of his work and takes from its trustworthiness, that Victor
                        Hugo?like tendency to see things in fantastic lights, to translate the
                        (alas! normally) nasty into the superhumanly terrible. This allows him to
                        write, or rather enables us to read, books on such subjects as “Germinal”
                        and even “La Terre.” We can survive (it seems) in madness situations which
                        would kill the sane. The mind, diverted to feelings of strength and wonder,
                        can stand the strain of otherwise unendurable horrors; and, in the presence
                        of Zola’s wicked Earth sending up villains as it sends up wheat ears, with
                        monstrous indifferent fertility; in the presence of that mine of his which
                        swallows cartloads of human life and suffering, we can endure sights which
                        would be unendurable shown in their real proportions, and shown as the only
                        reality existing.
                    But Maupassant eliminates with unswerving instinct everything which is not
                        mean, and groups into a perfectly
                        graduated pattern everything which is thoroughly ignoble. In real life
                        things are only very occasionally what we call artistic: reality is not
                        always ironical any more than it is always in agreeable perspective. Within
                        sight of my house is a hill, with trees and houses, which is quite perfect
                        as to arrangement; but all around are other hills, fields, trees, houses,
                        which seem all scattered any how. Similarly, I know of several female
                        orphanages which were founded in a most uninteresting way by quite
                        respectable women; while I know only one orphanage of the sort which was
                        founded by a lady of exceedingly light manners. The French novelist, who is
                        an artist (sometimes much more so than the contemporary French painter),
                        refuses to speak of the orphanages founded by the respectable ladies, as the
                        painter would refuse to paint the hills and houses and trees all scattered
                        at random; he spots at once and instantly notes down the disreputable lady’s
                        foundation: that has a point, makes a pattern, is worth talking
                        about! What sort of reality, what picture of life, can such men give us?
                        They can no more be trusted than the etcher, who looks out for lines
                        converging into head and tailpieces, can be trusted for a faithful statement
                        of ten miles of road. The artistic sense—the artistic sense applied to
                        literature, which is at once infinitely less and infinitely more than
                        art—the dramatic love for contrast, irony, and climax are as fatal to
                        truthfulness in the novel as any three unities and other classical
                        requirements were fatal, once upon a time, to truthfulness in the French
                        play.
                    But, you will say, why ask for truthfulness? why  not be satisfied with what these men really give,
                        which is art, and not ask them for what they only
                            say they give, which is reality? Have we not been seeing
                        that real reality, objective or subjective, is unattainable in the novel;
                        that its creations are, when most scientific, mere bird?women and
                        men?horses, chimæras, fantastic monsters?
                    True. But there is, in this curious anomalous art of literature, an artistic
                        quality without complete analogy in painting, or sculpture, or music, and
                        which transcends all external convergence, pattern, climax, and the rest.
                        And there is within the power of the novelist a kind of reality, a quality
                        which affects us as truthfulness, which far surpasses in efficacy the utmost
                        fidelity to single cases, or the highest clearness of typical diagrams. What
                        this quality consists in, on what it depends, is one of the many mysteries
                        of the mysterious province of æsthetics, and even to exemplify it would
                        require as many notes as these, and about a totally different set of
                        writers. We should have, above all, to speak of those two most different
                        men, who are yet alike in their special supremacy, Stendhal and Tolstoi ....
                        But the mere mention of their names will suggest to the reader—at least, as
                        a matter of feeling—what is this quality in the novel which transcends all
                        minor artistic qualities, and what is this un?real truthfulness, by which
                        the greatest novelists subdue our souls more efficaciously than by any
                        detail or any diagram! The only name I can find for it is
                            sympathy, or passionate personal interest. Stendhal,
                        Thackeray, Tolstoi, even our golden but clay?footed idol, Meredith, care for
                        what they write about more than for their
                        own writing. They are, whether cosmopolitan cynics, bourgeois moralists,
                        religious reformers, or harum?scarum chivalrous romanticists, all alike in
                        their passionate preference for their Duchesses, their Sorels, their Becky
                        Sharps, and their Colonel Newcomes; their Pierres, Levines, Annas, and
                        Natachas; their Beauchamps and Diana Warwicks. And this most potent æsthetic
                        magic acting within acts on their reader. He is convinced, enthralled; he is
                        satisfied that all this must be real, since he is made to love or hate
                        it.
                    These thoughts on realism, satisfactory and unsatisfactory, have naturally
                        grouped themselves in my mind, around the work of J.H. Rosny, because, among
                        French novelists, he is, perhaps, the most important, since Stendhal, who
                        has cared for his subject more than for his treatment.¹
                    ¹ The above was
                        written more than ten years before the appearance of the incomparable
                        “Jean?Christophe” of M. Romain Rolland.
                
            
            
            
                THE ECONOMIC PARASITISM OF WOMEN
                
                THE ECONOMIC PARASITISM OF WOMEN
                
                    
                        “THESE lovely ladies and the like of them, are the very head and
                            front of mischief; first because ... they have it in their power to do
                            whatever they like with men and things, and yet do so little with
                            either; and, secondly, because, by very reason of their beauty and
                            virtue, they have become the excuse for all the iniquity of our days; it
                            seems so impossible that the social order which produces such creatures
                            should be a wrong one.”
                        —RUSKIN, Fors Clavigera, Letter
                            80.
                    
                
                
                    I
                    In writing this preface for a translation of Mrs. Stetson’s “Women and
                        Economics,” and in recommending the original to my Anglo?Saxon readers, I am
                        accomplishing the duty of a convert. I believe that “Women and Economics”
                        ought to open the eyes, and, I think, also the hearts, of other readers,
                        because it has opened my own, to the real importance of what is known as the
                        Woman Question.
                    
                    I must begin by confessing that the question which goes by that name had
                        never attracted my attention, or, rather, that I had on every occasion
                        evaded and avoided it. Not in the least, however, on account of any ridicule
                        which may attach to it. There is, thank goodness, a spice of absurdity in
                        every person, and in every thing, we care for in this world; and the dear
                        little old lady in Henry James’s “Bostonians,” who pathetically exclaims:
                        “And would you condemn us to remain mere lovely baubles?” is the very
                        creature to endear a cause: she is the Brother Juniper, so to
                        speak, of the Woman Question.
                    My vague avoidance of the movement was not even due to the perception of some
                        of the less enjoyable peculiarities of its devotees. For a very small
                        knowledge of mankind, and a very slight degree of historical culture,
                        suffice to teach one that it is not the well?balanced, the lucid, the
                        sympathisingly indulgent or the especially gracious and graceful among human
                        beings who are employed by Providence for the attack and possible
                        destruction of long?organised social evils: nay, that martyrdom on behalf of
                        any new cause begins, one may say, by the constitution of the martyr as an
                        inevitable eccentric, unconscious of the diffidence, the scepticism, the
                        sympathy, the sense of fitness and measure which check, divert, or hamper
                        normal human beings. The early saints, judging by St. Augustine’s
                        “Confessions” and the “Legenda Aurea,”
                        must have been appalling prigs, indifferent to family affections, higher
                        literature, hygiene, and rational cookery; while the Hebrew Prophets were
                        quite devoid of their historian’s—M. Renan’s—intelligent indulgence for the administrative passion of, say,
                        Nebuchadnezzar, or the touching pleasure in toilettes of Queen Jezebel. And, as to Socialists, who may be
                        considered as the modern representatives of such virtuous tactlessness, we
                        have all seen something of them, and of their well?meant efforts to clash
                        with our habits of dress and manners, and to ruffle our feelings on trifling
                        occasions. So that it does not require the generalising genius of Dr.
                        Nordau, clapping Tolstoi and Ibsen into his specimen?box of “Degenerates,”
                        to tell us that the Woman Question, Feminism, is likely to be taken up by
                        those disconnected and disjointed personalities who are attracted by every
                        other kind of thing in ism; whose power consists a little in
                        their very inferiority; and whose abnormal and often morbid “pleasure in
                        saying ‘No’” (as Nietzsche puts it) is, after all, alas! alas! so very
                        necessary in this world of quite normally stupid and normally selfish and
                        normally virtuous “pleasure in saying ‘Yes.’” ...
                    All these things I knew, of course, and I do not really think it was any of
                        them which made me thus indifferent, and perhaps even a little hostile,
                        towards that Woman Question. Indeed, when I seek in the depths of my
                        consciousness, I think the real mischief lay in that word “Woman.” For while
                        that movement was, of course, intended to break down the barriers—legal,
                        professional, educational and social—which still exist between the sexes,
                        the inevitable pitting of one of these sexes against the other, the
                        inevitable harping on what can or cannot, or must or must not be done, said
                        or thought by women, because they are not men (women! women! everlastingly
                        women!), produced a special feeling,
                        pervading, overpowering, unendurable (like that of visiting a harem or a
                        nunnery), due to that perpetual obtrusion of the one fact of sex, while the
                        other fact of human nature, the universal, chaste fact
                        represented by the word Homo as
                        distinguished from mere Vir and Femina, seemed for the moment lost sight
                        of.
                    And somehow—if one is worth one’s salt, if one feels normal kinship not only
                        with the talking and (occasionally) thinking creatures around one, but also
                        with animals, plants, earth, skies, waters, and all things past and present;
                        if one be able, as every decent specimen of genus Homo must, to join in Francis of Assisi’s “Laudes omnium creaturarum”—why, then, one feels
                        a little bored, a little outraged, nay, even sickened, by this everlasting
                        question of sex qualifications and sex disqualifications; and (very
                        unjustly, but perhaps therefore very naturally) one gets to shrink from that
                        particular question exactly because it is the
                            Woman Question.
                    Very unjustly. let me repeat that; and remind the reader that what I am
                        describing is my still unregenerate state.
                
                
                    II
                    My conversion to the importance of the Woman Question was, as I have said,
                        the work of “Women and Economics”; and I was thus converted by Mrs.
                        Stetson’s unpretending little book, because in it the rights and wrongs of
                            Femina, das
                            Weib, were not merely opposed to the rights and wrongs of
                            Vir, der Mann, but subordinated to
                        those of what is, after all, a bigger item of creation: Homo, der
                            Mensch.
                    There was nothing new in connecting the Woman Question with Economics. If I
                        may judge by myself, the majority of people who know anything of Political
                        Economy must be accustomed to regard such questions as marriage, divorce,
                        prostitution, the legal position of mothers and fathers, and many of the
                        peculiarities of law and custom with respect to the sexes, as hinging upon
                        the facts of wealth production and distribution, tenure of soil, heredity
                        and division of property; upon the whole immense question of the
                        individual’s share in the products of nature, of invention and of industry.
                        Indeed, I much suspect that, as in my case, many thinking persons shelve the
                        question of women’s abilities and disabilities exactly because it seems to
                        depend almost completely upon the far more important question of the
                        redistribution of wealth; to demand only a minor act of social justice and
                        social practicality (bringing much waste energy under cultivation)
                        inevitably involved in the greater act of social justice and social
                        practicality which, through revolution or evolution, must needs take place
                        some day or other.
                    The originality, the scientific soundness and moral efficacy of “Women and
                        Economics,” appear to me to lie in its partially reversing this fact; and in
                        its substituting a moral and psychological reason for the rather miraculous
                        mechanicalness which mars every form of the “historical materialism” of the
                        Marxian school. In other words, this book shows that the present condition
                        of women—their state of dependence,
                        tutelage, and semi?idleness; their sequestration from the discipline of
                        competition and social selection, in fact their economic parasitism—is in
                        itself a most important factor in the wrongness of all our economic
                        arrangements, in the insufficient production, the wasteful expenditure, the
                        degrading mal?distribution of wealth.
                    This main thesis of the book can be summed up as follows:
                    In consequence of the immense benefit which a prolonged stage of infancy,
                        that is to say of intellectual and moral plasticity, obtained for the human
                        race, all other advantages tended, during the beginnings of civilisation,
                        and have tended ever since, to be sacrificed to the rearing of children;
                        and, first and foremost there has been sacrificed to it that equality in the
                        power of obtaining sustenance, and that consequent mutual independence in
                        such matters, which we find existing between the male and female half of
                        almost every other race of animal. The human race, as has been continually
                        demonstrated (but, perhaps, nowhere so well as in the studies on the Play
                        Instinct of Professor Karl Groos), has obtained much of its superiority
                        through the partial replacing of instinct by individual experiment and
                        conscious tradition; but this has meant that the human infant has been born
                        into the world far less mature, far less typically developed, and far less
                        near to independence than the young sheep which can walk within half an hour
                        of its birth, let alone of the chick which can find the right seed almost as
                        soon as it has broken out of the shell. In proportion as the human adult has
                        become rich in individual powers, has the
                        human infant required a longer and longer period of tutelage; with the
                        result of requiring. of the human mother a longer and longer devotion of her
                        strength, her mind, and, even more, of her time, to the rearing of
                        offspring. The difference between the female of genus homoand the female of other genera has
                        therefore originated not in a longer period of gestation (for that of the
                        horse, for instance, is nearly one?third longer), but in a longer period of
                        education of the young. The different position of the female whom we call
                            Woman is due to a difference not in physiological but in
                        sociological functions.
                    For the longer duration of human infancy, and, even more, the greater
                        helplessness, the greater educability of the human infant, has made it
                        difficult, and in some cases impossible, for the human mother to find food
                        for herself, let alone food for her growing and already weaned child. Hence,
                        the continuance of the human race has called forth a personage who (save
                        among birds, so oddly like human beings in many things) can scarcely be said
                        to exist among animals: the Father. The Father, as distinguished from the
                        mere begetter; the pseudo?father in many stages of primitive life (without
                        ironical references to later stages of existence!), the uncle, the maternal
                        male relative, the head of the tribe, the patriarch: the man who provides
                        food for the child, and food for the woman who rears it; the man who
                        procures, by industry, or violence, a home (cave, cabin, tent, or house) in
                        which the woman remains with the children, while he himself goes forth to
                        hunt, to tend flocks, to make captives, to
                        till the ground, to buy and sell; and in modern times to do those hundred
                        curious things which, producing no tangible product, come under the heading
                        of “making money.”
                    This all seems very simple; but the consequences are complex. The female
                            homo, thus left to rear the children
                        (and do what else she can), becomes, what the female of other animals is
                        not, or only (in birds and certain lower creatures) for a very short time,
                        the dependent of the male homo. The home which she inhabits is his home,
                        the food she eats is his food, the children she rears become,
                        whether father or only patriarch, his children; and, by a
                        natural devolution, she herself, the woman thus dependent upon his activity
                        and thus appropriated to his children’s service, becomes part and parcel of
                        the home, of the goods, of the children; becomes appropriated to the
                        nursing, the cooking, the clothing, the keeping in repair; becomes, thus
                        amalgamated with the man’s property, a piece of property herself, body and
                        soul, a slave (often originally a captive, stolen or bought), and what every
                        slave naturally is, a chattel. By this process, therefore, we have obtained
                        a primitive human group, differing most essentially from the group composed
                        by the male and female of other genera: the man and the woman, vir ac femina, do not stand opposite one
                        another, he a little taller, she a little rounder, like Adam and Eve on the
                        panels of Mereling or Kranach; but in a quite asymmetrical relation: a big
                        man, as in certain archaic statues, holding in his hand a little woman; a
                        god (if we are poetical, and if we face the advantages of the case)
                        protecting a human creature; or (if we are
                        cynical, and look to the disadvantages) a human being playing with a
                        doll.
                
                
                    III
                    In his remarkable book, “Division du Travail Social” M. Emile
                        Durkheim writes as follows:
                    “The female of those remotest ages was by no means the feeble being that she
                        has gradually become as a result of increasing morality. Prehistoric bones
                        make it quite plain to us that, in those earliest times, there was much less
                        difference of strength than we find nowadays between the two sexes. And even
                        now, we find that during childhood the skeletons of the male and female
                        present but little difference; the characteristics being, on the whole,
                        rather feminine. If, therefore, we admit that the growth of the individual
                        reproduces, so to speak, on a small scale, the development of the species,
                        then we may fairly conjecture that the same similarity between the sexes
                        existed at the beginning of human evolution, and we may regard the feminine
                        form as an approximation to that original single type of humanity, from
                        which the masculine variety has gradually become differentiated.¹
                    ¹ Readers who wish to
                        find this question of the original predominance of the female discussed with
                        more liberality of view than in the above quotation, should read (and for
                        other reasons also) Mr. Lester Ward’s extremely suggestive volume on “Pure
                        Sociology.” For the biological facts and theories consult Geddes and
                        Thomson, “The Evolution of Sex.” Neither of these books has any practical
                        bias.
                    
                    “As regards the highest organ of physical and psychical life, it has been
                        shown by Dr. Lebon, with mathematical precision, that the brain of both
                        sexes must have originally presented just such a degree of similarity. The
                        comparison of a large number of skulls, selected among the most different
                        races and civilisations, has led him to the following conclusion: that, if
                        we compare individuals of the same age, of the same stature and weight, the
                        brain of the male will be found considerably bulkier than that of the
                        female; and that this inequality increases regularly with the increase of
                        civilisation; in such a way that the brain and, therefore, the mind of the
                        woman is constantly tending to differ, to her disadvantage, from the brain
                        and the mind of the man. For instance, the difference found to exist between
                        the average skulls of modern Parisians of the two sexes is almost double the
                        difference which exists between the male and female skulls of the ancient
                        Egyptians. A German anthropologist, Bischoff, has come to the same
                        conclusions on this subject as Dr. Lebon. This anatomical resemblance is
                        accompanied by similarity of function. For, in those early civilisations,
                        the feminine functions are not sharply marked off from the masculine ones;
                        on the contrary, the two sexes lead very much the same life. There are even
                        nowadays a considerable number of savage races where the woman takes her
                        share in political life. This has been remarked more especially among the
                        American Indians, like the Iroquois and Natchez; also at Hawaii, where the
                        female shares the life of the men in a hundred ways; also in New Zealand and
                        Samoa. Similarly, it is not rare to find 
                        the women accompanying their men on warlike expeditions, urging them on in
                        the fray and even taking an active part in it. In Cuba and in Dahomey also
                        they are as warlike as the men, and fight by their side .... Now, it is to
                        be observed that, among all these peoples, the institution of marriage is
                        extremely rudimentary .... We are acquainted with a type of family,
                        comparatively near us in time, and which possesses only a germ, so to speak,
                        of marriage: we allude to the maternal family .... In this,
                        marriage, or what goes by the name of marriage, consists in but few
                        obligations, frequently limited also in duration, which bind the husband to
                        the wife’s relations .... Whereas, the further we advance, and the nearer we
                        draw to modern times, the more also do we see marriage take on in complexity
                        .... And it is certain that, at the same time, we find a greater and greater
                        division of labour as between the two sexes .... For ages past woman has
                        withdrawn from warfare and public business and concentrated all her
                        activities within the limits of the individual family. And the part which
                        she plays has become only more and more specialised; so that nowadays, and
                        among civilised nations, the female leads a life absolutely different from
                        that of the male. It is as if the two great halves of the soul’s life had
                        become severed, and as if one of the two sexes had appropriated the
                        emotional functions and the other the functions of the intellect.”
                    I am very glad to have been able to furnish my reader, instead of a précis of parts of “Women and Economics,” the
                        above quotation on the subject of that equality of faculties and community
                        of functions which may (or may not) have
                        originally existed between the two halves of genus homo, and upon that subsequent differentiation which resulted
                        in what M. Durkheim has aptly and joyfully defined as a “stationary or even
                        retrograde tendency” in the female skull. For, to such readers as have
                        reason (perhaps owing to their superior knowledge) for giving much weight to
                        similar statements about prehistoric civilisations; and to such readers also
                        as feel that the fact of having possessed any particular desideratum in the
                        past constitutes a better claim to its possession in the future, to both
                        these classes of readers, it must be much more satisfactory to be assured of
                        the original and primæval importance of womankind by M. Durkheim, who
                        jubilates at the “stationnement et régression des
                            crânes féminins” as a splendid argument in favour of
                        thorough?going division of labour, than to take it on the authority of Mrs.
                        Stetson herself, who, of course, may be suspected of partiality for any
                        hypotheses redounding to the glory of our earliest mothers.
                    I am also glad to have devolved, so to speak, the onus probandi of the original equality of male and female
                        skulls, of the primitive similarity of habits, functions, and powers of the
                        two sexes, and particularly the responsibility for that uncertain spectre,
                        the “Matriarch,” on to an adversary of female emancipation; because I
                        suspect that, in the undeveloped state of anthropology and prehistoric
                        sociology, the alleged facts and cherished hypotheses of one day are sure to
                        be upset the next. And also because I have a very strong feeling that the
                        desirability of any particular thing in the future has nothing to do with
                        its existence or non? existence in the
                        past; and that the question of the position of women, say, in the year 2000
                        A.D., will depend not upon the position of women in the year—well, the year
                        20,000 before the Deluge—but upon the condition of the world at large, the
                        intellectual, moral, particularly economical state of men and women, in our
                        own times. For to a believer in the principle of evolution, the nature, the
                        fate, of an organ, a faculty, an institution, an art, a class or a sex, are
                        a matter of adaptation to the condition of everything else which can affect
                        it; the specialisation—even that “division of labour” which M. Durkheim
                        places (instead of poor old happiness, long since dethroned) as the aim of
                        all human effort—the social organisation we are all so proud of (marriage
                        laws, private property, inheritance, army, bureaucracy, public instruction),
                        have had, after all, exceedingly humble origins. Man himself—I will not say
                            Homo Himself or Herself—has developed
                        out of some very simple bit of slime; so why should the woman of the future
                        require to prove so many quarterings, to demonstrate that she is of decayed
                        nobility, to point to genealogical trees with a Matriarch at their root?
                
                
                    IV
                    Thus, in my opinion, Mrs. Stetson’s truly valuable achievement consists in
                        showing that the exclusion of women from the world’s activity and their
                        subordination to men, have ceased to be either beneficial or inevitable,
                        however beneficial and inevitable they may have been towards securing the
                        lengthened infancy and  greater
                        educability of human beings, and also the storage and increase of inventions
                        and laws, thanks to a rigidly organised home. Mrs. Stetson has
                        satisfactorily demonstrated (to me at least) that one particular automatic
                        arrangement of social evolution has done its work: like slavery, like
                        serfage, like feudalism, like monasticism, like centralisation (according to
                        individualists), like capitalism (according to socialists), the
                        subordination of women has served its purpose and now become an impediment
                        to progress; an impediment which progress is therefore bound to sweep away.
                        The childhood, the greater teachableness of genus homo can now no longer be endangered; and a large proportion
                        of human education has, since thousands of years, passed from the care of
                        the mother to that of the community as a whole, or of portions—guilds,
                        priesthoods, universities, and so forth—of the community; while, on the
                        other hand, the inventions and traditions have been stored, multiplied, and
                        diffused far beyond the powers of family education. Civilisation is being
                        impoverished by the paying off of a debt. It is time that debt should be
                        cancelled. The benefit has long been secured beyond all possibility of loss;
                        but the price is still being paid. Now what is this price? M. Durkheim and
                        the sociologists of whom he is typical, have answered with complacent
                        simplicity: “The stagnation and regression of the Female Mind.” Less easily
                        pleased than these learned theorists, Mrs. Stetson has set about analysing
                        the facts covered by their satisfactory little sentence, and demonstrating
                        in detail what the “Stagnation and Regression of the Female Mind” implies.
                        She has shown that it means the removal of
                        womankind from the field of action and reaction called the universe at large
                        to the field of action and reaction called “the family circle”; the
                        substitution, as a factor of adaptation and selection, of the preference of
                        the husband or possible husband for the preferences, so to speak, of the
                        whole of creation. In other words, the sequestration of the capacities of
                        one half of the human race, and their enclosure inside the habits and powers
                        of the other half of the human race. Briefly, a condition in which the man
                        plays the part of the animal who moves and feeds freely on the earth’s
                        surface; and the woman the part of the parasitic creature who lives inside
                        that animal’s tissues. The comparison is exact; but we ought not to push the
                        analogy to the point of considering the parasitism of womankind as the
                        parasitism of a destructive microbe. The mischief lies not in the fact of
                        parasitism (does not M. Durkheim assure us that all co?operation is a form
                        of parasitism, and the co?operation of the woman absolutely requires her
                        parasitism?), but in the fact that this parasitic life has developed in the
                        parasite one set of faculties and atrophied another; atrophied the faculties
                        which the woman had (or might have. had, even if in lesser degree) in common
                        with the man, and developed those which were due to the fact of her being a
                        woman.
                    Philosophers and others of M. Durkheim’s way of thinking will here interrupt
                        in favour of those qualities thus developed; and insist that the
                        distinctively feminine peculiarities are not a drawback, but a blessing. Of
                        course some are. But even if we admit that chastity, maternal unselfishness,
                            tender? ness, gentleness, are due to
                        woman’s dependent position (a theory invalidated by the coyness in courtship
                        and the passion for their young of she?animals, who are anything but
                        dependent on their males), and if we add to these solid perfections,
                        æsthetic graces which the æsthetic Greeks by no means viewed as especially
                        feminine; even if we grant for argument’s sake that all the good in women is
                        due to their parasitic status, this gain must be added to the main advantage
                        resulting from “feminine stagnation and regression,” namely, the
                        prolongation of childhood and the establishment of the family group, not
                        deducted from the price at which it has been bought. And similarly, we must
                        not let our Durkheim friends and adversaries argue as if these virtues would
                        vanish off the earth if the position of women were changed. For, whatever
                        their origin, they have become sufficiently common to both sexes for
                        Buddhism and Christianity to have made chastity, mansuetude and
                        unselfishness the basis of their ethical system, which means that even if
                        women were to become spiritual facsimiles of men, they would still be
                        exhorted to practise these virtues, or else that these virtues (as Nietzsche
                        contends) are by no means so essential as M. Durkheim and other respectable
                        sociologists take for granted. As it happens, Mrs. Stetson and I think that
                        Buddha and Christ are nearer the truth in this matter than Nietzsche. But
                        the qualities whose over?development in women is the evil result of
                        “stagnation and regression” are not commended by either Buddha or Christ or
                        Nietzsche, and cannot, without much strain, be considered as virtues by any
                        one. They are, at least in their un?
                        desirable preponderance, a part of the heavy price which all the above?named
                        virtues and desiderata have cost humanity in the past, a price which, in our
                        opinion, humanity may as well stop paying in the future. Having, as I trust,
                        made this point sufficiently clear, we may return to Mrs. Stetson’s analysis
                        of that price, and inquire what has the race lost through feminine
                        regression and stagnation, however indispensable this neat pair of
                        abstractions may have proved in their day.
                    The first answer which arises in the mind is naturally a direct one: the work
                        which womankind might have accomplished during those hundreds and hundreds
                        of years if she had not had a man to work for her; the work which might have
                        been given by two halves of the human race, instead of being given by one
                        only. But here again we have need for a distinguo, though not a casuistic one. The woman did do work
                        throughout that time. Not merely the essential work, direct and indirect, of
                        rearing a new generation and, in a measure, keeping up the acquired standard
                        of civilisation; but also the work, less essential indeed to the race, which
                        enabled the man not merely to seek for food away from the home, but also to
                        be as idle as he required (or at least as he liked) while in it. The woman,
                        save among the exceptionally wealthy, has always been the chief domestic
                        servant; and even nowadays she is so, to a greater or lesser extent. The
                        woman, therefore, has worked; but—and here comes the subtle distinction on
                        which the whole economic and sociological part of the subject reposes—she
                        has worked not for the consumption of the world at large, and subject to the world’s selection of good or
                        bad, useful or useless, work; but for the consumption of one man and subject
                        to that one man’s preferences. The woman has worked without thereby
                        developing those qualities which competition has developed among male
                        workers. She has not become as efficient a human being as her brothers;
                        whatever her individual inherited aptitudes (and, as Mrs. Stetson aptly
                        reminds us, women are, after all, the children of men as well as of women,
                        and must, therefore, inherit some of their father’s natural powers), she has
                        not been allowed to develop them in the struggle for life; but has been
                        condemned, on the contrary, to atrophy them in forms of labour which can
                        require only the most common gifts, since they are required equally of every
                        woman in every family. Let us repeat this fact: womankind has not acquired
                        that degree of bodily, mental, and æsthetic efficiency which can result only
                        from the competition of such qualities, and from that professional education
                        which is itself a result of competition. This, please observe, is not the
                        view only of Mrs. Stetson and the persons in favour of female emancipation.
                        M. Durkheim’s famous “stagnation and regression” of the female mind can mean
                        only that women have become a great deal less competent than they either
                        originally were, or than the favouring power of natural selection would have
                        made them.
                    But this is by no means the whole of the price which the human race has had
                        to pay for the needful “division of labour” between its two halves.
                        Negatively, the position of women has prevented their developing certain of
                        their possibilities; positively, it has forced them to develop certain other of their
                        possibilities. It has atrophied the merely human faculties, which they
                        possess rudimentarily in common with men: it has, on the other hand,
                        hypertrophied the peculiarity which distinguished them from man:
                        hypertrophied their sex. There is one particular sentence in “Women and
                        Economics” which converted me to the cause of female emancipation: “Women
                        are over?sexed.”
                
                
                    V
                    Women over?sexed! Over?sexed! There seems something odious and
                        almost intolerable in that word. In the fact also—but odious and intolerable
                        in a manner more subtle and more serious than mere scandalised modesty can
                        ever understand. Let me try to explain the extreme importance of Mrs.
                        Stetson’s thought. Over?sexed does not mean over?much addicted
                        to sexual indulgence; very far from it, for that is the case not with women,
                        but with men, of whom we do not say that they are over?sexed.
                        What we mean by over?sexed is that, while men are a great many
                        things besides being males—soldiers and sailors, tinkers and tailors, and
                        all the rest of the nursery rhyme—women are, first and foremost
                            females, and then again females, and then—still more
                        females. It is a case for paraphrasing Danton; only that, alas! there is a
                        considerable difference between “de l’audace, de
                            l’audace et encore de l’audace” and “de la femme, de la femme, et encore de la femme,” which
                        latter sums up the outspoken views of the Latin races, and the practice,
                        alas! of the less outspoken but more
                        practical Teutonic ones. And here we touch the full mischief. That women are
                            over?sexed means that, instead of depending upon their
                        intelligence, their strength, endurance, and honesty, they depend mainly
                        upon their sex; that they appeal to men, dominate men through the fact of
                        their sex; that (if the foregoing seems an exaggeration) they are
                        economically supported by men because they are wanted as wives and mothers
                        of children—that is to say, wanted for their sex. And it means, therefore,
                        by a fearful irony, that the half of humanity which is constitutionally (and
                        by the bare fact of motherhood) more chaste, less dominated by sexual
                        impulses and thoughts, has unconsciously, and all the more inevitably,
                        acquired its power, secured its livelihood, by making the other half of
                        humanity less chaste, by appealing through every means, material, æsthetic
                        and imaginative, sensual or sentimental, to those already excessive impulses
                        and thoughts of sex. The woman has appealed to the man, not as other men
                        appeal to him, as a comrade, a competitor, a fellow?citizen, or an open
                        enemy of different nationality, creed, or class; but as a possible wife, as
                        a female.
                    This has been a cause of weakness and degradation to the man; a “fall,” like
                        that of Adam; and, in those countries where literature is thoroughly
                        outspoken, man, like Adam, has thrown the blame on Eve, as the instrument of
                        the Devil. I am not alluding to the Fathers of the Church or to ascetic
                        writers; but to the essayists, novelists, and dramatists who have taken
                        their place in modern life, and who have merely restated, in language less
                        allegorical, but by no means more polite,
                        the legend, or rather, alas! the sociological fact, of the death and
                        damnation of man’s soul through woman.
                    This is, of course, particularly the case among our Continental neighbours,
                        more outspoken than we upon all sexual questions, and unhampered by the
                        thought of Thackeray’s Erubescent Young Person. The old, old story is
                        repeated with slight variations from Schopenhauer to Nietzsche, and from
                        Michelet to Dumas fils. I think it may be
                        studied best in the works of this really very humanitarian though
                        exceedingly amusing dramatist.
                    “Well, then,” asks Mme. Leverdet in his “Ami des Femmes,” “what conclusion
                        have you come to as a result of your studies of womankind? You needn’t mind
                        telling me, for I am a femme
                        d’esprit.”
                    “My conclusion,” answers De Ryons, the “Ami des Femmes”—“my conclusion is
                        that Woman, such as she exists at present, is a creature entirely illogical,
                        inferior, and harmful—‘un être illogique, subalterne
                            et malfaisant.’”
                    The admirable preface of the play, and the whole tenor of the author’s works,
                        show that the younger Duress is making use of the personage of De Ryons to
                        speak his own innermost convictions, and that these are the convictions of a
                        very sincere and very disheartened moralist. As such, they are well worthy
                        of our attention; and—in the light of Mrs. Stetson’s words, “Women are
                        over?sexed”—ought to carry more weight than a whole cargo of “Woman
                        Question” pamphlets. In the first place, Dumas fils is rebelling, with the mixed cynicism and enthusiasm of
                        his moralist’s nature, against the
                        poetical lie, covering so much ugly prose, that “Love is enough.” Rebelling,
                        that is to say, against the narrowing of that great word love
                        down to a single one of its possible meanings; rebelling against the notion
                        that the power of loving, of giving one’s self, body and soul, which is
                        necessary for the efficacy and dignity of all human labour, of all human
                        relationship, should be expended solely in the passion of a man for a woman.
                        He sees and he preaches how small a part sex has a right to play in this big
                        and complex world, how episodic a part in this wide and varied human life.
                        And he sees that the danger and the evil come from what we have learned to
                        call the over?sexed woman, but which he calls, like every Frenchman, merely
                            La Femme.
                    For he is himself that Femme’s first and
                        foremost victim; he is hag?ridden by that fearful neo?Latin abstraction as
                        in an inevitable reality. Similar in this to so very different a man as
                        Michelet, Dumas describes La Femme as if
                        she were a single and invariable type, and, moreover, also the type of a
                        disease. It is altogether impossible to translate into English the
                        particular words which either Michelet or Dumas (I forget which) has coined
                        as expressive of the intimate nature of womankind. But in another place
                        Michelet defines the object of his love and pity, of his very honest
                            “Frauendienst”—as “la femme, toujours faible et souvent
                        furieuse”—while Dumas has a less medical and much more amusing
                        formula: “Ces charmants et terribles petits carnivores pour lesquels on se
                        déshonore, on se ruine, on se tue, et dont l’unique préoccupation, au milieu
                        de ce carnage universel, est de s’habiller
                        tantôt comme des parapluies et tantôt comme des sonnettes.”
                    Dumas, however, is not inferior to Michelet in physiological lore,
                        particularly of the kind offered to the world by men of science rather
                        hungry than scrupulous. In this preface of “L’Ami des Femmes,” we have a
                        list of all the possible varieties of La
                            Femme, with inventories of her peculiarities, from the lines
                        in her hands to the shape and consistence of her calves, let alone the
                        smoothness or crispness of hair, the flatness or sharpness of nose, the skin
                        which is either always warm or always cold, and those curious olfactory
                        details which prove that, so far as French writers are concerned, it is
                        quite untrue that genus homo is inferior
                        to the canine race in the faculty of scent. Physiologically and
                        sociologically, Dumas believes unhesitatingly in the existence of La Femme. And believing in her as such, he sees
                        in her a horrible danger to man’s moral progress; he sees her attack him,
                        grapple with him, destroy him, in her capacity not of human being, of
                        competitor, of enemy, but in her capacity of woman, of mistress or wife.
                        Against this danger man must eternally struggle; the creature made in God’s
                        image must be saved from this diseased piece of its own flesh. Man must
                        diminish the power of woman by diminishing his own sensuality and folly. One
                        feels all through this laughing cynicism a sort of priestly rage at the
                        impossibility of finding out some better mode of continuing the race, at the
                        impossibility of thoroughly getting rid of this constant disgrace and
                        danger.
                    Meanwhile, there women are, and the only thing is  to be exceedingly wise and consistent and austere
                        with them; not to be unjust or angry with their miserable nature, which is
                        not any fault of theirs. Besides, and that is the worst of it, these sirens,
                        these man?destroying monsters, do everything to make themselves agreeable;
                        these dangerous wild beasts are, alas! charming.
                
                
                    VI
                    All this is, you will answer, mere literary exaggeration. There have been an
                        enormous number of most useful women in the world, Mrs. Fry, Queen
                        Elizabeth, Joan of Arc, the mother of the Gracchi; and, as a fact, it is
                        these selfsame Latin countries, with all their filthy talk about La Femme, her ailments and powers, who bore us
                        Anglo?Saxons almost equally with their talk about the miraculous virtues of
                            La Mère, who is, after all, only
                            La Femme ... well, as the Latins would
                        put it, when she is too old or too busy to be La
                            Femme.
                    Doubtless. And it is not “Women and Economics,” nor I, its converted
                        expounder, who give so inordinate an importance to the influence of the
                        over?sexed woman upon the moral cleanness, the chastity, of mankind; it is
                        the very people, like Dumas, who believe, which we do not, in the universal
                        existence and eternal duration of La
                        Femme.
                    Mrs. Stetson has mentioned this aspect of the question, and I have followed
                        her example, because it is certainly an important one. But Mrs. Stetson
                            has taught me to see that there is
                        another aspect, more important by far. The fostering of vices, especially of
                        vices so harmful to the race as those presided over by La Femme, is a very grave mischief; but vices,
                        from their vicious nature, are more or less exceptional and tend to die out.
                        And a far more serious evil consists in the wasting and perverting of
                        virtues, the systematic misapplication of healthy feelings and energies. Now
                        the chief point made by the author of “Women and Economics,” the point
                        which, as it converted myself, ought to convert many others from
                        indifference to the Woman Question, is concerned with the misapplication and
                        waste of the productive energies and generous impulses of men, thanks to the
                        necessity of providing not only for themselves and their offspring, but for
                        a woman who has been brought up not as a citizen, but as a parasite, not as
                        a comrade, but as a servant, or—well, consider the word even in its most
                        sentimental and honourable sense—as a lover. The economic dependence of
                        women (however inevitable and useful in the past) has not merely limited the
                        amount of productive bodily and mental work at the disposal of the
                        community, but it has very seriously increased the mal?distribution of that
                        work and of its products by creating, within the community, a system of
                        units of virtuous egoism, a network of virtuous rapacity which has made the
                        supposed organic social whole a mere gigantic delusion. Virtuous egoism, and
                        virtuous rapacity; for it is virtuous on the man’s part,
                        husband or intending husband, to sacrifice himself for another human being;
                        and the consciousness of the virtue enables the sacrifice to be extended,
                        with a clear con? science, to the
                        interests of the community at large. A man has to be first a good father and
                        husband, and only afterwards, with such honesty as remains over, a good
                        citizen.
                    “Such honesty as remains over! Sacrifice of the community to the wife and
                        children!” you exclaim. “Why, this accusation of yours against the modern
                        man and the modern woman is far more really dreadful than any of that French
                        rubbish about La Femme and her victims!”
                        Exactly so; and a great deal more important, because it is a great deal
                        truer and more sweeping. The very fact of its truth not being recognised
                        merely goes to prove how extraordinarily our moral sense in economic matters
                        has been perverted (or has failed to grow), owing to the fact of the man
                        having to supply the material wants and satisfy the caprices not only of
                        himself, but of that “better”—or worse—self who sees the world only through
                        his eyes, and damages the world only through his hands. It is not a question
                        of cheating or robbing. I am not a collectivist; I believe no more in the
                        rights of labour than in the rights of property; and I have no reason for
                        supposing that the author of “Women and Economics” does so either. People’s
                        moral obtuseness is, on the contrary, proved irrefutably by their always
                        connecting the idea of dishonesty with such narrow and crass categories as
                        cheating and robbery—cheating and robbery which can be practised only
                        against individuals, and on very rare occasions; besides being severely,
                        perhaps almost too severely, punished. What cannot be punished (but is on
                        the contrary praised and admired, when successful) is exactly the chronic
                            and all?pervading preference of the
                        interest of the individual as against the interest of the community, the
                        debasing of the standard of work and the quality of products. Now, this kind
                        of dishonesty triumphs not merely in commerce and industry (perhaps almost
                        least there, where most visible), but in all the professions which are
                        exercised, and in many cases (bureaucracies of all kinds, civil and
                        ecclesiastic, and who shall say how large a portion of our supposed
                        necessary military system?) are kept in useless existence merely because men
                        have to make a living. “Je n’en vois pas la
                            nécessité”: the minister might make that simple answer to the
                        unmarried parasite, office?seeker, or journalist, or whatever he was; but no
                        minister, however cynical, would dare to question the married man’s
                        right—nay, his duty—to support his wife and family, or, more strictly, his
                        wife.
                    I repeat: more strictly his wife; because it is, in reality, not
                        the unborn children, or even the born children, who decide the “standard of
                        living”; but the wife, extremely on the spot, and already accustomed both to
                        a certain degree of expenditure as a reality, and, what is quite as
                        important, to a certain expenditure as an ideal in the future. Even the
                        poorest paupers contrive to rear offspring; and, by a melancholy irony, the
                        greater part of the world’s most necessary work happens to be done by people
                        “whose dear papa was poor,” as Stevenson makes the good little boy express
                        it. No, no, it is not the children who ask for carriage horses, toilettes,
                        and footmen, or (in more sordid spheres) for the Ibsenian “home for happy
                        people,” with its one overworked drudge and its preoccupation about the husband’s dinner. It is not even the children
                        who clamour for nurse?maids and governesses and expensive schools: it is the
                        wife.
                
                
                    VII
                    “Tout cela a été fait pour casser,” remarks
                        Nana, after one of her bouts of destruction. Reputable women do not,
                        usually, while away a dull morning like Zola’s ingenuous courtesan; they do
                        not set to tearing and smashing. But the only difference, very often, is
                        that while the light lady destroyed in a couple of hours the product of many
                        men’s and many months’ labour, the virtuous woman of the well?to?do classes,
                        and of the classes (more numerous and important) aspiring or pretending to
                        such well?to?do?ness, alters, discards, throws away more gradually those
                        objects which are no longer consonant with “what one has to
                        have,” and whose continued use would therefore suggest the horrid thought
                        that the family was not really well?off; in eminently business countries the
                        thought that the husband’s business was not thriving. “It is
                        good for trade,” remark the more responsible among these ladies,
                        unconsciously echoing a reflexion of that same Nana. It is good for trade:
                        and so is a town being burnt down, or swallowed up by an earthquake, or
                        washed away by a tidal wave. It makes room for more objects (dresses,
                        crockery, furniture, houses, or human beings); but, meanwhile, you have
                        wasted those that were already there, and all the labour and capital they
                        have cost to produce.
                    
                    But the spirit of wastefulness is by no means the worst co?relative among
                        women of the spirit of rapacity, of “getting wealth, not making it,” as Mrs.
                        Stetson luminously describes it, which the economic dependence of the wife
                        develops (as a virtue, too!) in the husband. An enormous amount of the
                        hardness in bargaining, the readiness to take advantage, the willingness to
                        use debasing methods (such as our modern hypnotising advertisement system),
                        the wholesale acceptance of intellectual and moral, if not material,
                        adulteration of work and its products—corresponds in the husband to what is
                        honoured as thrift, as good management, in the wife. It is more
                        than probable that the time wasted, the bad covetousness excited, the futile
                        ingenuity exercised by the women who crowd round the windows of our great
                        shops and attend their odious “sales,” are really the result of a perverted
                        possibility of virtue.
                    For the man’s virtue is to make money; the woman’s virtue is to
                            make money go a long way. And, between the two virtues, we
                        are continually told that a business house cannot give better wages and
                        shorter hours because it would be “crowded out of the market”; and we are
                        told also, by more solemn moralists still, that nations cannot do without
                        war, lest they lose their “commercial outlets,” or fail to secure those they
                        have not yet got.
                    Who can object? All these people are good husbands and good wives; the home
                        is the pivot of our morality. And the most disheartening thing is, that all
                        this is true.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    How do you propose to remedy it? By what arrangements do you expect to make
                        the wife the economic equal of her husband, the joint citizen of the
                        community?
                    I propose nothing, because I do not know. All I feel sure of is, that if
                        people only want a change sufficiently strongly and persistently, that
                        change will work out its means in one way or another. Which way? is a
                        question often unanswerable, because the practical detail depends upon other
                        practical details which the continuance of the present state of things is
                        hiding from us, or even forbidding. And because, moreover, we are surrounded
                        on all sides by resources which become available only in connection with
                        other resources, and only under the synthetic power of desire. The lids of
                        boiling kettles went on rising all through Antiquity and the Middle Ages;
                        but the notion of using that expansive movement of steam could not occur
                        until people had already got roads and mariners’ compass and mechanical
                        mills, and until people were beginning to find stage?coaches and sailing
                        vessels and wind?mills and water?mills a little unsatisfactory. The
                        integration of women as direct economic, and therefore
                            direct moral and civic, factors in the community, is not a
                        more difficult question than the question of the integration of the
                        labouring classes into the real life of nations; and yet the “social
                        question” will find, some day, its unexpected solution; and the “Woman Question” will, very likely, have to be
                        settled before that.
                    Have to be settled? I would have said “settle itself,” for that is more like
                        my meaning, if it were not that I wish to insist that questions do not
                            settle themselves satisfactorily, unless we wish and help
                        them to do so. It is for the sake of such increase of wish for a change in
                        the economic position of women, or, at all events, a diminution of the
                        present very strong prejudice against such a change, that the discussion of
                        ways and means appears, to me at least, principally useful. I do not agree
                        with Mrs. Stetson’s suggestion of our eventually living in a kind of hotel,
                        or at least dining permanently in a restaurant; but the discussion of such a
                        plan, odious as it appears to me, is infinitely useful in accustoming us to
                        the thought that some arrangement will require to be devised for delivering
                        women from the necessities of housekeeping. I see some similar usefulness
                        even in discussions about the future of women (including the possibility of
                        that famous “third sex” which haunts the imagination of the Latin believers
                        in La Femme), such as I. H. Rosny has
                        introduced (I scarcely know whether as a joke or not) into his “Chemin
                        d’Amour.” All these speculations, serious or frivolous, enthusiastic or
                        cynical, serve to plough up the solid, sterile ground of our prejudices, and
                        to expose our thoughts and feelings to the fertilising influences of time
                        and chance.
                    Besides this fact, the one thing certain about the future of women is,
                        surely, that they ought to be given, by the removal of legal and
                        professional disabilities, a chance, if
                        not of becoming different from what they have been, at all events of showing
                        what they really are. For one of the paradoxes of this most paradoxical
                        question is precisely that, with all our literature about La Femme, and all our violent discussions,
                        economical, physiological, psychological, sociological (each deciding
                        according to some hypothesis of his immature science), as to what women must
                        or must not be allowed to do, and what women must and must not succeed or
                        fail in—we do not really know what women are. Women, so to
                        speak, as a natural product, as distinguished from women as a creation of
                        men; for women, hitherto, have been as much a creation of men as the grafted
                        fruit tree, the milch cow, or the gelding who spends six hours in pulling a
                        carriage, and the rest of the twenty?four standing in a stable. Very
                        excellent things, no doubt, and a great deal more useful and agreeable to
                        man than a bitter?berried thorn, or a she?buffalo, or a wild horse of the
                        pampas; but scarcely allowing us to judge, by what they at present are, of
                        what their species must eternally and necessarily be.
                    One of the very great uses of Mrs. Stetson’s most useful book is to accustom
                        those who can think, to think in terms of change, of
                        adaptation, of evolution; to free us from the superstition that the present
                        is the type of the eternal, and that our preferences of to?day are what
                        decide the fate of the universe. Woman—even letting alone
                            La Femme—is, so to speak, the last
                        scientific survival of the pre?Darwinian belief in the invariability of
                        types; Woman, I may add, is almost a relic of the philosophy of
                        the Middle  Ages; for has not
                            Woman an Essence, something quite apart from
                        herself, an essence like the “virtus
                            dormitiva” of opium (not always so tranquillising), an
                        essential quality of being—well—being a woman?
                    One word more. There is a notion, founded in the main on the facts of a
                        period of struggle, segregation of interests, and general uncomfortable
                        transition, that if women attain legal and economic independence, if they
                        get to live, bodily and intellectually and socially, a life more similar, I
                        might say more symmetrical, to that of men, they will necessarily become—let
                        us put it plainly, less attractive to possible husbands. Of course, if they
                        have changed, they will no longer realise the ideal of gracefulness, beauty,
                        and lovableness of the particular men who like them just as they are; but
                        then those particular men will themselves probably no longer exist.
                        Moreover, there is, undoubtedly, a certain co?relation between the qualities
                        of the two sexes, due to the fact, which we are all of us (not only M.
                        Durkheim with his “division of labour”) inclined to forget, namely, that the
                        woman is, after all, not merely the wife (since that noble word
                        must be put to such mean use) of the man, but also his daughter, his sister,
                        and his companion; and that, as such, he requires her to be not
                            unlike, but like himself. There is, if we
                        watch for it, a family resemblance, after all, between the men and women of
                        the same country. I was very much struck, while at Tangier, by the fact that
                        the husbands of those veiled and painted Moorish women were themselves so
                        oddly like women in men’s clothes, those languid Moors lolling in their
                            shops, with black beards which looked
                        almost as if they had been gummed on to their delicate white faces: the
                        ultra?feminine woman belonged, quite naturally, to the effeminate man. In a
                        similar way, the “masculine” Englishwoman, fox?hunting, alp?climbing,
                        boating, is the natural companion of the out?of?door, athletic, sporting,
                        colonising Englishman; she has been taught by her big brothers during their
                        holidays “not to be a muff”; she has learned to be ashamed of
                        the things “the boys” would be ashamed of. And, living as I do equally among
                        Latins and Anglo?Saxons, I have got to guess that, if the Latins see a
                        “third sex” in a portion of Anglo?Saxon womankind, the Anglo?Saxons, on the
                        other hand, have a vague but strong feeling that a corresponding category
                        might be found among the Latin males morally emasculated by belief in
                            La Femme. For if manly be
                        an adjective denoting certain virtues, and effeminate an
                        adjective denoting certain weaknesses, you may be sure that the same
                        civilisation, the same habits and preferences, will produce more of the one
                        than of the other in all the members of a race, just because they do belong
                        to the same race. The man makes the woman, and the woman (as Dumas and the
                        believers in La Femme are the first to
                        tell us) in her turn makes the man; woman in the image of man, man in the
                        image of woman.
                    And since I have used the word image, and have alluded to the
                        grace and beauty, or the gracelessness and ugliness, of the women of the
                        future, let me remind Mrs. Stetson’s readers that it is just the most
                        æsthetic, but also the most athletic and the most intellectual, people of
                        the past which has left us those statues
                        of gods and goddesses in the presence of whose marvellous vigour and
                        loveliness we are often in doubt whether to give the name of Apollo, or that
                        of Athena.
                
            
            
            
                RUSKIN AS A REFORMER
                
                RUSKIN AS A REFORMER
                
                    
                        “... Through such souls alone
                        God, stooping, shows sufficient of His light
                        For us i’ the dark to rise by .... ”
                    
                
                
                    I
                    COMING, as it did, when all England was engrossed by the tragic
                        practicalities of the War, the death of Ruskin failed to bring home, as the
                        death of every great master normally does, the full sense of what this man
                        has done and can do for our more than momentary dignity and welfare. The
                        case being such, it is better to come, as I do, when others have long since
                        had their say; since there is now hope of some attention from those whom I
                        would try to bring back to a study of Ruskin, by enumerating some of the
                        possibilities and habits of thought and feeling which I am myself aware of
                        owing, at least in definite and imperious form, to the teachings of this
                        great prophet of righteous happiness. And the attention I should most desire
                        is that of the younger of my possible readers and those of most advanced
                        opinions; because I am convinced that, far?spreading  as was his influence on his immediate
                        contemporaries, and large as is the debt (though often second?hand and
                        unacknowledged) due to him by the following generation, the very best of
                        Ruskin’s efficacy can be expected in the future: an efficacy more limited,
                        perhaps, but more genuine and fruitful, unhelped, but unmarred also, by
                        community of prejudice and error, and founded solely and safely on
                        similarity of feeling and of aspiration. For the intuitions of Ruskin’s
                        many?sided genius were recommended to the majority of his contemporaries—a
                        majority larger than could really assimilate them—by the system of
                        symbolical metaphysics and dogmatic morals in which he set them with so
                        tedious an ingenuity; but our modern habits of thought have reduced this
                        artificial framework to little more than a dreary litter, which wearies and
                        vexes at every step. It is, therefore, high time to point out the genuine,
                        though unconscious, organic system which unifies all that is living and
                        fruitful in Ruskin’s work, the vital synthesis of one of the richest and
                        noblest and really best balanced of creative personalities.
                    More essentially than almost any other illustrious writer, Ruskin has been a
                        giver of great gifts. He has opened out to us many and various fields of
                        æsthetic and imaginative enjoyment, which we can sum up under a number of
                        rough headings—Turner, Gothic, the Alps, Venice, Mediæval Painting,
                        Imaginative Topography, certain Botanical and Geological Interests, and many
                        of the most essential and also the most recondite qualities of art; and he
                        has, with the unerringness of unconscious instinct, united them  all in a scheme of living, nay, rather of feeling
                        and facing life, which is the spontaneous outcome of his character—the very
                        flesh and blood of his soul given us to partake of. Moreover, this attitude
                        towards life (higher than Goethe’s or Carlyle’s, more complete than
                        Wordsworth’s or Renan’s, more human than Spinoza’s or Emerson’s) has the
                        active, and at the same time contemplative, satisfactoriness of being in the
                        widest sense religious; how truly so those best can judge who will strip
                        away the mere ecclesiastical symbolism and theological metaphysics from
                        Ruskin’s genuine and spontaneous thought. Religious, in his detachment from
                        all material possession or social vanity, his capacity to take of things
                        only their spiritual use, their ideal fruition; religious, in his desire for
                        union with all creatures through gentleness and sharing; religious, above
                        all, in his passionate power of communion with all the universe through love
                        and wonder. No writer has felt more strongly the spiritual man’s disgust
                        with the narrow utilitarianism (not Bentham’s nor Mill’s, truly) which looks
                        upon the world as so much food and fuel, hides and wool; and no writer (not
                        even Tolstoi) has felt greater wrath at the exploitation of human beings by
                        other human beings. In the same way that men were sacred in Ruskin’s eyes,
                        so also was the visible and sensible universe; because he felt (expressing
                        his feeling in the formulas of God’s works and God’s children) that both the
                        universe and man should stand in relationship of spirituality with the
                        spiritual human being.
                
                
                
                    II
                    This leads me to begin what must needs be a very rough?and?ready enumeration
                        of Ruskin’s many and many?sided achievements, by protesting against the
                        common belief, shared in dogmatic moments by himself, that Ruskin was unable
                        to sympathise with progress and was hostile to everything modern. His early
                        education made him, indeed, impervious to many sides of science, and he had
                        neither time nor disposition to exchange the theological notions he had
                        received ready?made for any kind of philosophy. But the progress which
                        Ruskin sneered at and the modernness which he anathematised were, after all,
                        the very same which distressed and disgusted so different a man as
                        Renan—progress which considered science merely as an instrument for
                        commercial production, or, at best, for sanitary improvement, and modernness
                        which regarded philosophical thought as a useful solvent of inconvenient
                        spiritualities. We must remember that “modern” meant for Ruskin, not our
                        latter?day habits of mind, already full of sympathy with the past and
                        impatience of the present and tinged so deeply with reluctance and regret,
                        but the mental habits, if “mental” they might be called, of the second and
                        third quarters of the nineteenth century; of that period of chaotic
                        materialism, of hand to mouth ruthless egoism, against which not only
                        Carlyle came to protest, but Karl Marx also. The wrath of Ruskin
                        forestalled, despite exaggeration and dogmatism, a way of feeling which the
                            scientific and philosophical
                        development of our day, nay, even the increased habit of material welfare,
                        will make more and more usual in the future.
                    Moreover, I would point out that Ruskin showed equal abhorrence for what is
                        the very reverse of modern and of progress, the brutish neglect of the
                        beautiful work of the past, the disrespect for Nature’s fruitfulness and
                        cleanness resulting from centuries of sloth and barbarism, such as he saw it
                        in Italy, in France, and in the Canton Valais. The diseased newness of Leeds
                        or Manchester and the diseased decay of Venice or Verona affected him,
                        equally, as the desecration of the soul’s sanctuary. And the deeper science,
                        the wider practicality, of coming times will justify the noble priestly
                        wrath he experienced. But my meaning about this will become clearer, and
                        Ruskin’s meaning also, in the course of enumerating a few of the interests
                        he brought into life, and then of summing up his attitude towards life as a
                        whole.
                
                
                    III
                    And to begin with art.
                    The action of Ruskin has been to break down all narrow dilettanteism, even of
                        men like Wincklemann and Reynolds, and show that art was sprung from daily
                        life and fit for daily life’s consumption. Without ever belittling (as was
                        the fashion in those days of Buckle and Taine) that creative genius which is
                        the flower of one epoch but also the seed of another, Ruskin insisted on the
                        participation of the humblest skill and
                        sentiment in all the great work of the past; and indicated clearly, even if
                        he did not formulate, that masterpieces owed the spontaneous appreciation
                        which they got to the existence of artistic forms and qualities like their
                        own in the commonest household objects. Moreover, while teaching his reader
                        to take interest in the constructive reason of all architecture, Ruskin went
                        far beyond considering this constructive reason as the essential of
                        architectural beauty. The passages in the “Seven Lamps,” and elsewhere, on
                        the evidences of living interest, of seemingly capricious but in reality
                        instinctively meaningful alteration of proportions and relations of line,
                        curve, mass and surface, forestall to my mind one of the most important
                        discoveries which scientific æsthetics will have some day to register.
                    And here I would point out that, in order to get Ruskin’s full meaning, we
                        must never separate his writings from those wonderful illustrations which
                        tell us all the things words can never say. It is in them that he has given
                        us the real quality of mediæval architecture. Nay, more than that; he has
                        given us, in his rendering of balcony and window tracery, of the pine?cone
                        brickwork of steeples, of the feathery keenness of lance?like ironwork, not
                        merely the æsthetic loveliness, but also the imaginative fascination, of
                        Venice and Verona. Think how even Goethe saw those towns, and how
                            we see them. Well, the difference is due, two?thirds, to
                        Ruskin. Similarly with the Alps. Look at his drawings, in “Modern Painters,”
                        of the Mont Blanc range. These things make one forevermore feel the
                        uplifting, the bud? ding of clustered
                        peaks, the sweep of moraine and avalanche tracks, the cling of forests, and
                        add to the reality the charm of his having seen and felt
                        it.
                    Ruskin gave us one of our greatest pleasures (gave it consciously and as an
                        artistic factor in life)—topography; teaching us to feel the countries
                        growing, forming, as we move through them; teaching us to evoke the haunting
                        presence of scenery, on dreary days or evenings, over maps; the very names
                        of stations growing delightful, and a talk about miles and levels and
                        surveyors’ details becoming fraught with delight, a poem.
                    This art of getting the imaginative essence of things, of combining the
                        mysterious associations, subtle, microscopic, between lovelinesses of all
                        kinds, between all evidences of noble life, which Ruskin gave us, enabled
                        him also to point out the real literary quality which great paintings
                        (Turner’s, for instance, in the “Loire side” and “St. Gothard”) got by mere
                        selection of visible items. Nor must we think of Ruskin’s analyses of these
                        pictures as mere ingenious exercises like those first taught by Lessing,
                        which distract the mind from real artistic quality. What Ruskin taught on
                        the largest scale and by unconscious system was, not to substitute the aims
                        of one art for those of another, but to unite in our mind separate
                        imaginative delights, actual and remembered, and to multiply them
                        indefinitely by each other till the whole world became an organic unity, not
                        by mere links of causality or category, but by the vivifying sense of love
                        and wonder. Ruskin felt all things with the energy and complexity due to
                            previous feeling. The mere titles of
                        chapters and illustrations (“Venga Medusa,” “The Locks of Typhon,” “The Sea
                        Foundations”) show his impressions to have been like tones rich in harmonics
                        which are chords in themselves; and many of his records of mere scientific
                        observations seem to be throbbing with imaginative pleasure: the record, for
                        instance, of how he calculated the erosion of a certain mountain, and that
                        delightful statement, one of his most beautiful bits of writing, “the true
                        high cirri never cross a mountain in Europe. How often have I hoped to see
                        an Alp rising through and above their level?laid and rippled fields.”
                    This culminates, perhaps, in the great chapter of “Modern Painters” on “The
                        Use of Mountains”: to give motion to water, change to air and diversity to
                        soil; and we may add, after this chapter, to refresh, ennoble, and enlarge
                        the soul of man. How in such passages as these Ruskin awakens our
                        imaginative sympathy with the universe, teaching us to multiply, for
                        instance, by the knowledge whence the great rivers come, the solemnity of
                        the sight of them in defile or in estuary. What interest all this
                        realisation of life brings into life! Surely, he who should feel habitually
                        as Ruskin teaches us to feel, merely in this one chapter, would be rich with
                        the bare necessaries, and certainly would want no amusements or excitements,
                        even on a rainy day, knowing the snow to be falling, the brooks to be
                        rushing, behind the mist on the mountains. Nay, he would have things to look
                        forward to as others look forward to the newspaper or the theatre. What
                        dramas are the skies preparing? What pageants will be held at sunset?
                
                
                
                    IV
                    Instead of which, we privileged folk ... well, let us drop a veil over the
                        futilities, the wasteful vanities, with which we cheat our tedious leisure,
                        while the leisure, harder won, of our less fortunate brethren is employed,
                        let us say, in reading betting news and accounts of murders and executions;
                        a vicious circle of overwork and idleness, of waste and lack of opportunity.
                        Here, on the contrary, we are taught by Ruskin a virtuous circle of virtuous
                        efficacy: intellectual and æsthetic interests being not merely wholesome and
                        ennobling in themselves, but freeing us from the pursuit, often unjust, and
                        always selfish, of superfluous materialities and wasteful vanities,
                        liberating our minds and lives, and incidentally the lives and minds of
                        others, from the grindstone. From the grindstone. This metaphor inevitably
                        enters my mind with the remembrance of another passage of just such
                        passionate imagination, in this same volume of “Modern Painters”—the
                        description of Turner’s “Wind Mill.” “Turning round a couple of stones for
                        the mere pulverisation of human food,” he writes, “is not noble work for the
                        winds.” The half page gives the essence of Ruskin’s philosophy, because it
                        gives the whole of his strong harmonious mode of feeling. It does more than
                        merely show the religious quality of Ruskin, which places him alongside of
                        Isaiah, of St. Francis, and the great nameless makers of primæval myths, to
                        whom the forces of nature are neither masters nor servants, but brethren,
                            recreated (as all things are recreated
                        in the act of thought) in the image of man’s own higher nature. It shows,
                        also, his very noble and very original intuition of the comparative values
                        of different kinds of work, his craving for such work as shall be fruitful,
                        not merely for the belly but for the soul.
                    Some of us see the wind as a thing to grind corn, and the stream as a thing
                        to spin cotton; and we have, many of us, alas, from lazy conformity with the
                        baser practicality of our time, grown almost to think that setting natural
                        forces (even if polluted in so doing) thus to provide us food and clothing,
                        is doing them a kind of honour, allowing them, mere soulless things, to
                        share the life of creatures having minds, to wit, ourselves. Ruskin has
                        shown (despite theology asserting that the world was made to be man’s
                        kitchen—garden) that our human life was worth participating in, that our
                        human souls existed (“where a soul can be discerned”) just in proportion as
                        either employs Nature for something beyond preparing food or providing
                        clothing. He has not been hoodwinked by fine phrases about “saving human
                        labour.” The labour is not saved if it is set merely to other work, as
                        stupefying and as merely hand to mouth as that you took it from. There is
                        gain only if, setting the winds to grind and the waters to spin, we set the
                        men and women hitherto employed at loom or grindstone to watch the winds and
                        streams, to feel their life and rejoice in it. There is gain even if, by
                        reducing natural forces to drudgery, a certain proportion among us, having
                        ceased to use our muscles for such purposes, employ our minds in thoughts of
                        higher knowledge and wider kindliness.
                        But, in reality, we employ this privileged freedom of mind and time mainly
                        to calculate how to get more out of the natural forces—more money out of
                        their produce and more satisfactions of vanity out of the money. This
                        passage forms a fit introduction to Ruskin’s economical and socialistic
                        views.
                
                
                    V
                    Economical and socialistic, in the sense neither of orthodox political
                        economy nor of ordinary socialism, Ruskin’s scheme, elaborated with little
                        knowledge of economic science or of the discipline of science of any kind,
                        strikes us at first as a hopeless jumble. He is an individualist, an
                        opponent of collectivism. He has a theory of the intrinsic value of labour
                        which seems to come out of some Marxian pamphlet; and, by its side,
                        definitions of equitable exchange and summings up of the dependence of value
                        on imaginative and emotional causes, which foreshadow the deepest analysis
                        of Tarde’s “Logique Sociale.” But when we look at Ruskin’s
                        books on economy in the light of his other work, we find the clue through
                        this confusion; and we rejoice that his lack of scientific training and his
                        unbridled personal assertiveness have made him misconceive the very subject
                        treated by other economists, and answer them so often at cross purposes.
                        For, while the followers of Mill or Marx have amply furnished us with
                        treatises (more or less logical and more or less narrow?minded) on the
                        question of how and by whom wealth is really produced, Ruskin, following only his passionate human
                        sense, has given us what is wholly different: a theory how wealth ought to
                        be spent. This way of looking at the subject (notwithstanding some
                        wrong?headedness and much quibbling) enlarges and corrects political economy
                        even on the mere scientific side, introducing the consideration of factors
                        such as are nowadays beginning to sweep away the recent notions of
                        “historical materialism,” and setting the question of productive and
                        unproductive labour in a more perfect manner than any other writer on
                        economics, orthodox or socialist, whom I know. I could quote twenty passages
                        from the “Political Economy of Art” and from “Unto this Last” alone, which,
                        were they taken to heart, would improve not only economic theory as
                        propounded in books, but economic practice as it enters into the life of
                        every well?to?do man and woman. That national wealth is meaningless save as
                        equivalent of national happiness; that he who spends deals not with his
                        money only, but with the mode of occupation, the present bodily and
                        spiritual welfare, the future misery or comfort, of those his money sets to
                        work; that every object of luxury consumed without improvement to the
                        consumers’ bodily or spiritual efficiency, is so much human labour
                        destroyed, and so much human life and happiness wasted; that, in fact, there
                        is as much morality or immorality in the mode of spending wealth as in that
                        of acquiring it, and that every prosperous person is, however unconsciously,
                        the honest or dishonest steward of his community; these are the chief
                        headings of Ruskin’s political economy. These are the truths which Ruskin has guessed in their main features
                        and elaborated, with the unerring sight of deepest sympathy, in every kind
                        of detail. And they are truths which, if we saw and felt them thoroughly,
                        would, as I hinted, add a great new factor to all economic problems: the
                        factor of moral and imaginative selection, of an idèe force (in M. Fouillée’s phrase) acting as an economic
                        determinant.
                
                
                    VI
                    I have spoken of moral and imaginative preference. I ought to have added, to
                        do justice to Ruskin’s special genius, “and æsthetic.” For it seems to me
                        that Ruskin shows, in his own person, that such aspirations after justice,
                        kindliness and simplicity of life are the result of a wide sweep of
                        imagination, which feels distant evil as discordant with good at hand; and,
                        even more, of that habit of harmony, that craving for contemplative
                        satisfaction, which make up the æsthetic nature. I have insisted on the
                        importance of this æsthetic side for an even weightier reason: that a belief
                        in it is the deepest basis of Ruskin’s hopes for social improvement.
                        Increased sympathy and self?restraint, usually the only factors thereof
                        which moralists take into consideration, are thought of (or rather
                            felt) by Ruskin as the means of substituting the interests
                        and pleasures of the imagination for the exorbitant interests and pleasures
                        of sensuality, of vanity or of acquisitiveness.
                    There would be food enough and shelter enough  and leisure in the world for every one, such is
                        Ruskin’s unformulated thought, if every one would be satisfied with such
                        superfluous wealth, with such superior power, as is represented by the
                        spiritual possession and spiritual multiplication of everything that is and
                        can be beautiful. Like every great dream of universal happiness, Ruskin’s
                        conception of God’s kingdom on earth is that of a kingdom of the spirit.
                        “None of us yet know,” he wrote in “The Eagle’s Nest,” “what fairy palaces
                        we may build of beautiful thought, bright fancies, satisfied memories, noble
                        histories, faithful sayings, treasure?houses of precious and restful
                        thoughts, which care cannot disturb nor pain make gloomy, nor poverty take
                        away.” And the importance of the teaching of Ruskin is largely, as I said at
                        the beginning, that he gave us not merely the conception of a higher, wider,
                        less selfish and more active life, but that he gave us, in the unintended
                        revelations of his own personality, the proof that such a life can actually
                        be lived. No man, perhaps, has ever possessed so great a power of living in
                        all the things which increase, instead of diminishing, by use and sharing;
                        from the great mountain, whose image ennobled further the nobility of the
                        buildings with which he connected it, as in the splendid Matterhorn passage
                        in the “Stones of Venice,” down to the rooms of the inn at Champagnole,
                        where he “rejoiced the more in every pleasure that it was not
                            new.” I have chosen this illustration because it exemplifies what
                        he was fond of preaching, the increasing fertility of all beautiful and
                        noble things under the faithful tillage of our love.
                    
                    Alas, such tillage is beyond the power of most men, and few, very few of us,
                        ill?organised and unselected creatures, life’s paupers or invalids, however
                        rich in money or robust in body, can “see and possess royally,” as Ruskin
                        did, the spiritual kingdoms of the earth. Mankind at large, leisured and
                        well?to?do, and even intellectually cultivated, has not the health or energy
                        or staying power to live or wish to live in such a kingdom of the spirit.
                        Even apart from sensuality, sloth or the weakling’s need for excitement, we
                        still require, for the most part, to be kept alive by Ibsen’s “vital lies,”
                        ballasted by prejudice, stiffened into consistency by vanity, and tempted
                        into activity by every lust and covetousness: and, as for the incentives of
                        imaginative pleasure and higher sympathy, if we had only them, we should
                        most of us die in the workhouse. We are not very highly evolved or well
                        organised creatures so far. Ruskin could never realise this. And, on the
                        whole, it is fortunate he could not, since, although it made him unjust and
                        abusive where others would be merely self?contemptuous and hopefully
                        patient, it enabled him to fulfil his vocation as a great spiritual
                        precursor. Every religion, in its noblest parts, is, after all, a
                            counsel of perfection, ennobling and lastingly efficacious
                        just in proportion as it can influence only the chosen few. And the highest
                        ethical use of a religion is thus to influence, thus to select, the capable,
                        and to produce in them a higher standard of capacity for those below to rise
                        by. Ruskin’s counsel of perfection is different from those we are accustomed
                        to, but it is not, therefore, more far?fetched. It is not more unlikely that
                             mankind may some day seek its
                        happiness in mountains, noble works of art, generous thoughts and all the
                        sharable enjoyments called æsthetic, than that mankind will learn to love
                        its neighbour like itself. It need not be more difficult to live in and by
                        an inner harmony of one’s soul, than to live in God: who knows, indeed,
                        whether it would not be identically the same process?
                
                
                    VII
                    And now, before concluding my very rough?and?ready tribute of gratitude to
                        Ruskin, this seems the right place to forestall another objection likely to
                        be made both by believer and agnostic, that Ruskin, namely, could frame what
                        has been called his religion of beauty, because he had the help, potent in
                        reality or in delusion, of the other religion, the orthodox one, of which he
                        is for ever talking. I am, on the contrary, struck more and more by the
                        fact, that the dogmatic part of this religion not only masked from us much
                        of the vital value of Ruskin’s nature, but hampered him even more in some of
                        his greatest, most natural conceptions: a materialistic and anthropomorphic
                        philosophy, a cut?and?dried unpsychological ethic, elaborated in a
                        comparatively ignorant and cruel past, and handed down, with every kind of
                        misinterpretation and quibble, by minds deficient in all historical
                        sense—this, which is the dogmatic part of every orthodox creed, could never
                        help the religious reality of such a soul as Ruskin’s. Like every great
                        poetical mind, Ruskin’s was naturally pantheistic; not by dint of metaphysical abstraction and the reduction of all
                        differences to a uniformity of nothingness, but through the conception of
                        all things in the terms of a pure and ardent human spirit. There is loving
                        sympathy in his thought of the leaves gently making room for one another;
                        and tragic solemnity in that of the erosion, the gradual levelling away, of
                        the great mountain. To him, as to St. Francis, as to Goethe and Shelley,
                        such processes were not mechanical but archangelic. Here the creed in which
                        he had been brought up interfered; and instead of showing us nature as he
                        felt it, desiring, loving, struggling, living, he was bound to explain it as
                        a passive machinery in the hands of a manlike and capricious deity. I put
                        aside his unceasing quibbling to explain the right or wrong of an artistic
                        form, the superiority of a Gothic balustrade over a Palladian, the fineness
                        of a rock by Turner and the wretchedness of a rock by Salvator Rosa, nay,
                        questions of veneering and undercutting, by reference to the Decalogue, the
                        Prophets or Deuteronomy. The very crudeness of these things renders them
                        merely wearisome, but intellectually harmless. But this dogmatic belief
                        actually warped Ruskin’s thought and checked his spontaneous intentions.
                    No man was gifted with greater natural intuition of the organic, of affinity,
                        growth, change, and all those harmonious complexities which we, remarking
                        them, call “tendencies” in things; yet he allowed himself to think only in
                        terms of deliberate willing, ordering, arranging, rewarding, punishing, in
                        terms of humanly devised machinery and wretched human jurisprudence. With
                        his wonderful eye for everything  that
                        told of life, he yet intellectually knew of only creation and its
                        theological correlative, annihilation. How much finer would have been his
                        historical conception of art, had he understood that the death (as he calls
                        it) of a form of art is not a judgment from heaven, but a process which has
                        its beneficent side, the possible preparation for a fresh living form. Nay,
                        his habit of looking at the universe in a way not essentially different from
                        that of Dante, had an even worse effect, depriving Ruskin, in a serious
                        degree, of real hope in the future. The notion, the result of modern
                        psychology from Spinoza and Kant downwards, that beauty is the name given to
                        certain relations of proportion, visible or imaginative, in harmony with
                        man’s organic wants, this view, so really spiritual because subjective, and
                        corresponding so happily with that of moral fitness and its imperative, was
                        one which naturally fitted in with Ruskin’s æsthetic intuitions, with all
                        his discoveries about form, composition and imaginative effect, and with his
                        aspirations after a “spiritual kingdom” it harmonised so perfectly. But
                        Ruskin believed that beauty was a sort of entity, put by the Creator into
                        things, and which it is the duty of man thence to extract; and thinking
                        thus, he naturally felt that the preference for inferior art was a form of
                        wickedness, and that artistic appreciation must be taught to a stiff?necked
                        generation by dint of an enormous amount of theological revilings. For, as I
                        said before, the worst effect of his theological bias upon Ruskin is its
                        depriving him of real faith, of hope in possible improvement. The idea of
                        spontaneity, like the idea of evolution, is carefully excluded by his dogmatism. Now, the discovery or
                        invention of evolution has given us a habit of conceiving life as
                        spontaneity and adaptation, above all, as unconscious, necessary
                        improvement, instead of continual unquiet readjustment and effort of our
                        little human will; and with it has come a kind of wider optimistic finality;
                        or a possibility, humbly and hopefully, of doing without finality at all. It
                        is instructive to compare with Ruskin’s harassed feeling, that all will go
                        wrong in the world unless it be converted to his notions, the hopeful
                        serenity of even such a pessimist as Renan; the Frenchman’s reassuring
                        certainty, even in his plays and dialogues, that the moral world will live
                        through every crisis, and that the good and evil we fight and mourn about
                        are only our small human ways of looking at the movements of a universe
                        which takes care of itself. Whereas, alas, the universe of Ruskin is
                        (despite its singing streams and rejoicing mountains) inert, mechanical; a
                        dead weight lugged about by a personal (and on the whole inefficient)
                        creator, and requiring to be poked and scolded by Ruskin himself.
                
                
                    VIII
                    And to sum up. When we have separated what Ruskin can give the future from
                        what (unfortunately in the long run, though fortunately at the moment)
                        Ruskin got foisted on him by the past, I think we shall see that in Ruskin,
                        as in every other great prophet, the valuable, the efficacious element was,
                        not what he intended to teach, but the personality, the type  of human power in nature, which we feel through
                        all his teachings. Ruskin’s deliberate intention was to place Turner above
                        Claude, Gothic above Renaissance, the Middle Ages above Modern Times, Hand
                        Labour above Machinery, Protestantism above Catholicism, and Biblical
                        interpretation above Scientific. But this programme matters little, and soon
                        will matter not at all, these questions sinking more and more into squabbles
                        about definitions and crusades about names, the embodiment thereof in his
                        work being marked by injustice, violence, sophistry, and self?contradiction.
                        But, meanwhile, the real man, the organised, intuitive, unhesitating
                        creature of perception and aspiration, has subdued all this to his
                        unconscious purposes, and has left us the priceless teachings of his true
                        preferences and antipathies. He has shown us art, history, nature, enlarged,
                        transformed and glorified through the loving energy of his spirit. He has
                        shown us a scheme of life in which greater justice for all would result
                        merely from greater happiness of endowment of every one. He has given us an
                        example of contemplative union with all living things, and in this
                        contemplative ecstasy made all noble things alive. The most larklike soul of
                        our time, he sings at heaven’s gates, and his song makes heaven’s gates be
                        everywhere above us. Greatest of all his gifts, he has given us himself:
                        himself unconscious of all the baser temptations which we struggle with, and
                        absorbed in happy, fruitful thoughts and feelings, sharable with every
                        free?born spirit.
                    His work, as I said before, is useless comparatively but positively supremely
                        useful, because it is a counsel  of
                        perfection; and one might say, without exaggeration, that the highest
                        meaning we can put into this ceaseless jostle of rapacities and vanities
                        which we now call real life, would be the hope that the day may come when
                        all mankind, or mankind’s flower at least, will be permitted by circumstance
                        and be enabled by endowment to seek their most natural happiness as this
                        real man has really done.
                
            
            
            
                ON MODERN UTOPIAS
                AN OPEN LETTER TO H.G. WELLS
                
                ON MODERN UTOPIAS
                AN OPEN LETTER TO H.G. WELLS
                IN placing your name at the head of a new book of my own, my motive is,
                    naturally, to do myself credit while showing you honour. But I also seek an
                    opportunity of conversing with you in that perfectly intimate manner so often
                    prevented by our own shy or philistine personality, and possible only, perhaps,
                    under the chaperonage of that most sympathising and unreal of all phantoms, the
                    Reader.
                Our talk, of course, will be about the most wonderful of all your inventions: the
                    planet, twin of our earth, where (as Sterne already remarked about the
                    Continent) things are better done than over here.
                I have just been re?reading your “Utopia” and your “Anticipations”; and my
                    thoughts are still in a prodigious welter, curdling into currents by no means
                    easy to follow, and eddying round certain reefs, with or without beacons. One of
                    these recurrent rocks is that against which our theological forefathers were
                    perpetually breaking their logic, and to a certain extent their hearts: the
                    question, if I may give it a name  formed by
                    analogy, of the Inefficacy of Grace, the persistence of Sin and
                    Punishment in the face of Redemption, the question why, since there was a royal
                    road to Heaven, should so many souls go nevertheless to Hell? To you and me, and
                    all who think like us, this self?same query recurs for ever in a garb of
                    evolutional philosophy: Why should progress be so little progressive? Why should
                    Utopia be ... well, only Utopia?
                This is what your books make me ask myself; whereunto, also, your books furnish
                    at least an implicit answer, and it is about this mainly that I want to have a
                    talk, because I find that we do not entirely agree. It is perhaps inevitable.
                    You are—and that is the usefulness and delightfulness of you—a builder of
                    Utopias; and all Utopias, like all schemes of salvation, pivot upon an
                        if. Every constructive reformer is ready to set all (or most)
                    things right, providing only you will promise to obey him on one little point,
                    or at least grant this point might have been otherwise. Thus: if
                        only people would observe some particular law, or (as more recent
                    prophets prefer) disobey every law without distinction; if only
                    people would abolish private property, or disregard all selfish (or all
                    unselfish and merciful) impulses; if only they would be strictly
                    communistic, or monogamic, or hygienic; if only they would think
                    less, or drink less, or have fewer children, or (saving your presence) have a
                    few yards less of unnecessary intestine; if only they would follow
                    the dictates of Lycurgus, Comte, Pope Pius X., Tolstoi, or
                        Nietzsche—then, &c., &c., &c.—as if by
                    magic. But so long as mankind obstinately (brutishly  or sentimentally or ignorantly, as the case may be)
                    declines to accepts the particular terms upon which the particular speaker has
                    fixed his fancy, why, of course, all that mankind can possibly do will be mere
                    vanity and vexation; for nothing equals the critical acumen with which every
                    other scheme of redemption is destroyed by each successive preacher of the
                        one thing needful. Has not Mr. Bernard Shaw achieved his comic
                    masterpiece in the proposal, following on the demonstration of the futility of
                    all reforms, whether Whig, Radical, Collectivist, or Anarchist, that the
                    efficiency of the citizen should be entrusted to an office for the breeding of
                    human beings?
                But enough of such examples. Even without them, it is obvious that all Kingdoms
                    of Heaven depend on an IF. The if of your
                    particular Utopia, my dear Mr. Wells, is certainly the most easily admitted, if
                    not the most easily granted, of all similar conditions; because it is the least
                    narrow and precise, and indeed is not so much expressed by yourself as
                    perpetually suggested to the reader’s own thoughts. This if of
                    yours, this little bit of perfection required by you, as by all other utopists,
                    as a starting?point for all improvement, can, however, be summed up in a few
                    words, as follows: Progress might have been and might be far rapider and more
                    secure, and the world a less wretched and hopeless place for many folk, if the
                    achievements of mankind had not been perpetually checked, deviated, or rendered
                    nugatory, and its power of mind, heart, and will allowed in a considerable
                    degree to run to waste. Thus, if I understand right, your Utopian planet beyond
                    Sirius differs from its  twin world Earth
                    exactly in so far as its past has escaped certain historical accidents which
                    have slackened our progress; as the seed of good has fallen less often on
                    indifferent obduracy, or been gobbled up less certainly by self?interest and
                    perfunctoriness; as whatever germinating wisdom has not been choked by routine
                    and prejudice. There has been less loss of time and effort and thought in
                    Utopia; that, take it all round, has been the difference between it and our poor
                    Earth.
                Such an explanation fits into our modern conception of Nature (in so far as
                    Nature can be opposed to Man) as being eminently wasteful: millions of germs for
                    one living organism, myriads of variations for one improvement. But even better
                    does this explanation tally with the evidence of everyday life, of ingenious
                    thoughts become dead letter, fruitful rules grown to barren routines,
                    preferences to prejudices, convictions to superstitions; and individual talents,
                    power, good intentions, becoming not merely the paving?stones, but the very
                    brick and mortar, of hell.
                In your first chapter of “Anticipations” you have analysed how the coming
                    together of the two inventions of the steam pump and the tram?rail, both applied
                    to the old arrangements of the stage?coach, has bound us over to the intolerable
                    stereotyped cumbersomeness of a railroad system. The chapter is a profoundly
                    suggestive analysis of the deviation of what might be by what is.
                    Such spoiling of new wine by old bottles was recognised long ago in the domain
                    of conduct and character; and half the novels written are unconscious essays on
                    the ruin of powers for happiness and good by the institutions and arrangements
                    made to secure good  and happiness in other
                    times or for other persons: marriage, inheritance, education, profession; all
                    inventions which, when and where they do not help, inevitably impede.
                And you yourself, in your very remarkable little essay called “Scepticism of the
                    Instrument,” have drawn attention to the intellectual loss due to the very forms
                    of our speech and the categories of our thinking impoverishing and distorting
                    all detail and reality to suit lopsided formula. In short, nearly everything
                    which serves a purpose is apt to become a nuisance; and economy on one side
                    implies, at least nine times in ten, waste of something on another.
                    Wastefulness: everything under the sun (and probably inside the sun) is
                    wastefulness! Such will have to be the burden of the latter?day Ecclesiastes;
                    and in so far our latter?day pessimism is an improvement upon that of the
                    Preacher of even more pessimistic and more wasteful times. For the lesson of
                    history as well as of natural science is that wastefulness tends to diminish and
                    eliminate itself; and that, conversely, the obedience to purpose increases in
                    all things just in proportion as a purpose forms itself and emerges out of the
                    random lurchings and fumblings of the universe. But as yet purpose has but
                    little to say; and; Wastefulness, which we call Chance, has the best of it. I
                    have just alluded to the Parable of the Sower and the Seed; it has an
                    application wider than the one which British Infants are to be taught,
                    denominationally or not denominationally, in or out of school hours: The seed
                    falls on the highway and is trodden to mud by the passers?by, whom it might have
                    fed; the fowls of the air pick  it out of the
                    furrow and devour it; there are thousands of square miles of rock upon which it
                    is parched, and millions of acres of thorns in which it is choked; the only
                    exaggeration in the whole allegory being the hundred?fold multiplication of the
                    one little grain which chances upon good soil. “He that hath ears to hear let
                    him hear,” concludes the Master when he has set that forth. And we latter?day
                    believers have heard the parable as a fair account of the ways of the Universe
                    and of Man’s poor efforts in their midst. Only, my dear Mr. Wells, there is a
                    point which we are apt to overlook in this whole depressing story: the rocks and
                    the thorns, the greedy pigeons, described as if they had come into being only to
                    frustrate that well?meaning agriculturist, had been in that place long before
                    the Sower himself; nay, the grain existed long before he took it into his head
                    to use it for bread and sow it in his furrows; what he called barren soil was
                    such only in the eyes of his hungry and hopeful effort; what he called thorns or
                    weeds were inferior to other plants merely because they did not afford him
                    sustenance; and the seed was wasted when it got into the crops of the birds only
                    because he had intended that it should become bread for his belly. In other
                    words, wastefulness is, as the Jesuit moralists would have said, a
                    matter of direction of the intention; and the things Man happens to
                    require for sustenance of his body and soul are not necessarily the same which
                    the universe intends producing; nay, it may be man’s self?engrossed imagination
                    which attributes to the universe intentions of any sort. I have made this little
                    digression in order to forestall from the first any accusation of pessimism, particularly of that Schopenhauer type which
                    holds that the universe (including its expression the Wille) is always interfering with Man’s real interests, to wit,
                    complete or partial self?annihilation. All that I mean is, that given that Man,
                    with his sensitiveness to pain and consequent arrangements for trying to escape
                    it, is merely one part, and a, recently superadded part, of what we
                    patronisingly designate as the Great Whole, there is no wonder in much of man’s
                    ingenuity and effort, like the seed of the parable, and from the Sower’s point
                    of view, being wasted. The matter for astonishment to me is rather how, despite
                    the stones and brambles and thievish birds, there should already have come to be
                    so many bushels of wheat and barley and oats, so many well?baked loaves, and
                    even the most refined and least nourishing cakes, metaphorical brioches, for instance, of art, sentiment, and
                    ideal, such as that French princess proposed to offer people in years of famine.
                    It is this view of things in general which, among other reasons, prevents my
                    being much surprised, or even much discouraged, at our planet differing from its
                    twin star Utopia.
                But the indifference, construed by pessimists into hostility, of the Universe to
                    man’s rather tardy arrival and claims, is by no means the only reason for the
                    slowness of his progress, As I have already hinted with reference to marriage,
                    education, and similar useful encumbrances, it is man’s own presence and his own
                    requirements which are really most to blame in this unsatisfactory business.
                He is, on the whole, paying the price of his own refuse?heaps. “Refuse?heaps!”
                    exclaims the sanitary reformer and patentee
                    for wholesale Rubbish?into?Fuel?Conversion (half in Latin, of course, and half
                    in Greek): “and pray, why should there be any refuse?heaps at all?” Because the
                    refuse?heap is the chief instrument by which all progress has been achieved: the
                    refuse?heap called turn about unfitness, failure, vice, sin,
                        dishonour, or merely illegality, on to which Natural
                    Selection and Human Selection have for ever been throwing whatever, at any
                    particular moment, happened to be in the way of their sweepings and garnishings;
                    whatever, like the fossil which Thoreau flung out of his hermitage window,
                        was more bother than it was worth. This rough?and?ready method
                    has been, to say the least, expensive. Think of that destruction of
                    possibilities! The variations suppressed for ever merely that one type should
                    gain the preponderance needful for a few years! Why, early civilisation (and
                    perhaps not so very early either) must have been a perpetual killing off of
                    individuals too sensitive, too imaginative, too independent, too good, in fact,
                    for patriarchal and military civilisations; even as, nowadays, individuals too
                    good for strenuous commercialism find themselves discouraged in a quieter though
                    equally crushing manner. And not only individuals have been exterminated, but in
                    each survivor many a possibility sacrificed to a standard of necessary
                    righteousness. Nay, every advance in morality has meant the sacrifice of all
                    decent people who still clung to the practice, whatever it might be, which began
                    to be branded as immoral; even as manslaughter and vendetta will become the
                    exclusive privilege of “Born Criminals” with odd?shaped ears and a taste for
                    tattooing (see Lombroso) only by the vigorous
                    destruction of all possible Othellos and Orestes, with whatever chivalry and
                    heroism there may be in them.
                Mr. Lester Ward and Mrs. Stetson have told us of an irreparable loss of time and
                    opportunity accompanying the necessary subordination of the female to the male,
                    and the passage from the matriarchal to the patriarchal state of society. What
                    is a great deal more certain (though we blush to mention it) is the fearful
                    waste of excellent qualities (of which we may judge by Aspasia, Mary Magdalene,
                    poor Gretchen, and sundry humble or eminent ladies of our own acquaintance)
                    which must have attended, and still attend, the needful segregation of the woman
                    destined for motherhood from the woman whose sterile and dishonourable vocation
                    has, after all, considerably helped the establishment of the lofty monogamic
                    household. In fact, it is doubtful whether progress has lost more by incursions
                    of barbarians and bouts of fanaticism than by the ruthlessness of its own slow
                    and unintelligent methods. We do not like to teach this to our children, or even
                    to admit it to ourselves; we should be glad—yes, even you and I, dear Mr. Wells,
                    let alone the followers of Comte—if we could lay all such mischief at the door
                    of wicked tyrants, and capitalists, and cunning priests (those “Bonzes,”
                    “Fakirs,” and “Old Men of the Mountain,” who were such a comfort to
                    eighteenth?century optimism), and blink the suspicion that morality
                    has employed immoral methods, and progress cost some stagnation and
                    regression. We are not yet spiritually strong and elastic enough to admit of
                    moral instability and adaptation. We still require the safety of sanctions, the corroboration of
                    prejudices, the exhilaration of mutual anathema. On our fatiguing and puzzling
                    journey towards recognition of realities we want to be comforted with what
                    Ibsen’s doctor calls “Vital Lies.” And “Vital Lies,” however indispensable for
                    an individual, a class, or a period, are lies nevertheless, involving failure,
                    catastrophe, or mere perfunctoriness; and as such they also are another instance
                    of the wasteful system on which human progress is carried on. Wastefulness!
                    Wastefulness everywhere, says the Preacher. The refuse?heap becomes indeed ever
                    smaller and smaller, fewer useless things remaining to be thrown away, fewer
                    useful things being thrown away with them; but the very process by which all
                    this happens is wasteful itself. Nor is it surprising if the conscious spirit of
                    man is thus wasteful, in however steadily decreasing a ratio, since it has
                    arisen, after all, out of the unconscious automatism of the universe. And even
                    as Pascal’s Divinity could afford injustice because he had eternity to right it
                    in, so the Forces of Nature can be dignified and patient because they are not
                    flustered by pleasure and pain: why should they mind how long it takes to attain
                    anything when very likely they do not want to attain anything at all?
                Such considerations, I imagine you answering, may afford a metaphysical Lenten
                    diet for the lay priests of progress, the responsible and busy Samurai of Utopia, during their yearly retreat
                    among the polar ice?fields. But, practically speaking, Mankind is separate from
                    all these cosmic forces. And seeing that Mankind is conscious of pleasure and
                    pain, and consequently gifted  with foresight
                    and volition, why the deuce should it not apply this foresight and volition to
                    arranging a more tolerable earth? And here we are back, my dear builder of
                    Utopias, at the original if of your whole system. For what has made
                    the difference between your decent and decently happy planet and this Earth as
                    seen from the top of a Strand omnibus has not been the accident of a war less or
                    a discovery more, nor even the presence of a greater number of persons of virtue
                    or talent, but simply that, in Utopia, people in general have been less
                        inexplicably stupid and lazy and heartless and self?indulgent than
                    here.
                Less inexplicably. For I feel in all your anger and all your
                    humorous sadness, even as in all the anathemas of all the prophets, the sting of
                    the inexplicable: the human race is stiff?necked, obstinately blind to its own
                    good. Now here it seems to me that you, like all the floaters of Kingdoms of
                    Heaven, are distinctly unjust. The human race, I venture to say, has not shown,
                    and does not show, itself one bit more stupid, heartless, lazy, or
                    self?indulgent than you or I would in its place. There has been wastefulness on
                    the part of the Forces of Nature, the Great Abstractions who are indifferent.
                    But as to human beings, they have been applying their poor wits and will, under
                    extremely trying circumstances, to their daily and hourly needs; needs
                    comprising rest and enjoyment (what we moralists call “sloth” and
                    “self?indulgence”) quite as much as the more obvious renovation of their tissues
                    and replenishing of the race.
                In so doing, like the famous savages of rhetoricians, mankind frequently cuts down the tree for the fruit,
                    and eats its corn as spinach; it damages to?morrow, but it satisfies to?day; and
                    to?day is imperious. Mankind also damages its neighbour and posterity, but it
                    satisfies (I must repeat it) the ego’s immediate and cruel wants. Hence vice,
                    crime and (more detrimental still in the long run) all the various
                    perfunctorinesses and frauds which raise your indignation legitimately, but
                    ought not (for you are a great novelist) to excite your astonishment—you who
                    described the wiles of the hungry pseudo?writer who did poor Mr. and Mrs.
                    Lewisham out of their typewriter’s deposit. You are, for instance, angry that
                    our schools should not be better adapted to the education of the young. But our
                    schools (the one which educated Kipps, for instance) are perfectly adapted to
                    their real vital object, namely, furnishing a livelihood to sundry genteel,
                    incompetent moralists and scholars, and, on the other side, ridding parents and
                    guardians of the harassing responsibility and presence of unruly youngsters.
                    English people, less hypocritical because more practical than Latins, will even
                    admit that seeming perfunctoriness is no drawback: Eton is useful in furnishing
                    a lad with presentable future friends; Alma
                        Mater, with her Schola Logicæ, Schola
                        Mathematicæ, Schola Musiæ, and other Faust?like inscriptions over
                    Gothic doors, turns a boy into a man worthy of a latch?key. The simple truth was
                    ingenuously put to this present writer by the youth who averred that Greek and
                    Latin, doubtless Hellas and Imperial Rome, were useful “to pass exams.” Half of
                    our institutions, of our codes, morals, ideals, believe me, dear Mr. Wells, are
                        useful “to pass exams”; and exams are
                    useful—well, in order not to have to pass any more.
                Nor are the offences against progress always of this smug British type: in
                    Southern countries (let us say) one is horrified by the suffering of galled and
                    overladen horses; and one is forced to pick one’s way and stop one’s nose in the
                    public street. But can we expect the miserable carter to be more careful (even
                    if he had the money) of his harness than of his own ragged clothes, still less
                    to unload half his freight and come back again, when his day’s work and pay
                    depends on doing that broiling journey a certain number of times? And where
                    would you have the sluttish housewife throw her messes when she has no place
                    save the convenient thoroughfare?
                This illustration is, I fear, rather humble and repulsive. But the lives and
                    souls of most folk are (and still more, have been) humble and repulsive:
                    ill?fed, unwashed, untaught, often tired and nearly always hurried; so that one
                    wonders how, even like those poor Southern peasants, mankind has yet been able
                    to put by, year by year, more savings in the bank, and swell the capital of
                    good.
                “Il faut vivre, Monseigneur,” says the human race, like the jail?bird to the
                    Minister. And you know, dear Mr. Wells, that you abhor the only answer possible
                    to that, Schopenhauer’s and the other pessimists’; you refuse to say, “Je n’en
                    vois point la nécessité.” And meanwhile, living, because it has meant dying less
                    soon and suffering less constantly, has slowly brought its remedy with it. The
                    avoidance of pain and the snatching a scanty pleasure have been man’s real and sole business, with the consequence, as I
                    have repeated too often, of much destruction, of much clogging and littering,
                    but with the consequence also of constantly increasing order and forethought and
                    self?control. For the lessening of our own discomfort forces a certain restraint
                    on our neighbour; the lessening of his discomfort a certain restraint on us;
                    foresight grows into imagination, imagination into sympathy; appetite itself
                    ends by teaching moderation, and self?defence, respect for others; thus, as
                    Professor Baldwin has shown us, the child, by gradually increasing perception of
                    the outer world and increasing experience of other folk, grows at length into
                    the adult citizen. You, yourself, dear Mr. Wells, have written a more convincing
                    book than this “Modern Utopia,” your book of “Anticipations,” of how the world
                    is likely to progress by the mere shifting and pushing of its shortsighted and
                    selfish activities. We shall, even as we have, but with increasing speed, become
                    more sound and sane, more leisurely and sensitive and thoughtful, as we become
                    less poor and ignorant. Our added leisure and finer sensitiveness will enable us
                    to do less mischief in seeking our good, and make us more dependent for our
                    comfort on the comfort of others. Our cleaner, more ventilated fancy will sicken
                    at whiffs from even distant refuse?heaps left by less squeamish and more hurried
                    ancestors, refuse?heaps into which they swept what they could not deal with, and
                    let it fester and breed disease, such as industrial exploitation, criminal
                    justice, marriage laws, prostitution, and so forth, which we still accept as
                    parts of public sanitation.
                Quickly or slowly, man, asserting himself in the  universe, will diminish the universe’s wastefulness. Quickly, say
                        you, with your incomparable romancing ingenuity and intolerant
                    novelist’s sympathy; slowly, says your brother?thinker, Gabriel Tarde, with his
                    historian’s and economist’s belief in strata of civilisalion, in slow permeation
                    or levelling up. But, quicker or slower, this automatic progress requires time;
                    and it is time which you, in your “Modern Utopia,” have suddenly taken to
                    grudge. In thinking over the betterment which must come, you have
                    (at least it seems to me) lost patience with the evil, the folly, and
                    wastefulness under your eyes; and you have set to planning a royal road, to
                    framing some device by which (as in some Monte Carlo “system”) there will be
                    all, or very nearly all, gain, and no loss to speak of. And you have invented a
                    Utopia where time and experience are replaced by foresight and self?control;
                    where forces for good shall no longer run to waste, and forces for evil be
                    snuffed out by deliberate effort. There is already in the world an amazing
                    amount of knowledge, of disinterestedness (at least as far as money and comfort
                    goes), and of volition: let this be consciously applied to future improvement,
                    no longer left to casual work, there are already a good number (perhaps there
                    have always been)of superior men and women: let this élite direct the rest, showing its fitness to govern others by
                    its fitness to govern itself—and behold! we have your Samurai, your voluntary oligarchy, your noble caste, recruited by
                    the elimination of all baser motives. The idea is so good that it is not new:
                    the Pythagoreans, I am told, were people of this kind; the Jesuits, who did such
                    wonders in Paraguay, were men whose individual
                    passions had been deviated and canalised ad majorem Dei
                        Gloriam, although the God and the Glory were sometimes queer. And
                    to me, who am, after all, but a poor æsthete in moralist’s garb, there is about
                    the whole thing a pleasant reminiscence of Mozartian choruses in the Zauberflöte, of a venerable, deep?voiced Sarastro,
                    clad in white and singing eighteenth?century humanitarianism. The attractiveness
                    of the notion, and its perpetual recurrence in some shape or other, suggests.
                    that there may be truth at the bottom of it; at all events, that, by constant
                    reverting to some such arrangement, mankind may eventually make it possible.
                Eventually, but only eventually. For, and here one of my vague
                    dissentient currents of thought finds a channel of expression, it seems to me
                    that such a system of government by the wise and good is rather the result of
                    the world’s greater wisdom and goodness than its probable cause. Apart from such
                    oligarchies of persons specially fit for military or statesmanly functions (but
                    otherwise indifferent poor enough), like Sparta, or Venice, or the House of
                    Lords at an unknown historical period, I can imagine such government by the Wise
                    and virtuous only in moments of emergency and crisis. In the very suggestive
                    little Utopian novel, “Histoire de Quatre Ans,” by my friend Daniel Halévy, for
                    instance, the austere élite of men of science
                    take the entire management of the human cattle remaining on earth, and even
                    break and breed them, so to speak, for the plough. But this is after the
                    collapse of society through the over?sudden introduction of virtually gratuitous
                    chemical food and consequent leisure, and a
                    fine bout of mysterious pestilences which has purged the earth more effectually
                    than Robespierre even could have done with purifying guillotines. And my friend
                    Daniel Halévy does not say how the human cattle and their high?minded farmers
                    got on in the long run; nay, he even ends his tantalising story with an
                    incursion of Tartars and a return of that “Great Corrector of Monstrous Times,
                    Shaker of o’er?rank States, and Grand Decider of Dusty and Old Titles,” the
                    “Mars Armipotent” of splendid Fletcher’s verse. And M. Renan, while (in his
                    pessimist moment of the “Dialogues Philosophiques”) furnishing a singularly
                    terrible scheme of a world given over to the tender mercies of a scientific
                        élite, has (like the charming,
                    inconsistent, human, sly moralist he was) warned us in several other places
                    against such oligarchies; indeed, made it quite clear that, brute though Caliban
                    often is, it is safer to leave the world to him than to the austere and
                    philanthropic Prospero.
                It might be possible perhaps, with time (of which, however, you are
                    very chary!) to guard against the unpleasantness of your Samurai
                    Régime, particularly by encouraging your other
                    class of erratic (and I fear rather rowdy) creative geniuses. It might even (and
                    to this I should propose devoting a little of our energy) become possible to
                    diminish the trickiness and one?sidedness of superior people’s individual
                    constitution, and their tendency to rough?and?ready logic. But even if you get
                    perfect disinterested thoughtfulness from a minority, do you really believe this
                    disinterested thoughtfulness, immaculate, sound, but fitful, sporadic,  and tentative, could build a world of virtue
                    and wisdom out of the shoddy resolves, the sham comprehension, the genuine small
                    self?seekingness and shirking of the majority?
                Why, we have not yet got the better of what is tricky and trashy in the
                    individual saint or genius; and, as to disciples, every reformer has seen (or
                    rather been too purblind to see) his teachings misunderstood or misapplied or
                    turned into dead letter by those he trusted most. Did not the Apostles, under
                    the eye of the Master, begin quarrelling for precedence?
                The Samurai, therefore, may organise statistics
                    and laboratories, but I doubt whether they will do much effective organisation
                    of mankind at large. I venture, indeed, to think that their real use will be to
                    organise themselves, I might almost say, each to organise himself
                    and herself. Good, wise, and responsible people are never good, wise, or
                    responsible enough or in the right directions and moments; and it will be a
                    great gain to all progress if they be, personally and collectively, up to the
                    mark, a thoroughly efficient moral and intellectual vanguard. It will be a gain
                    if virtue and wisdom cease to be a positive nuisance. Let the Samurai educate and organise themselves and not
                    others; if their systems of morals and education, their new scruples and new
                    duties, their new ideals and dignities and pleasures, are really good for
                    anything, why, then, this better born and better bred class will gradually be
                    imitated by their inferiors; the world will rot a little less for their
                    presence. They are the salt of the earth; let them see to not losing their
                    savour!
                
                To do this will give them work enough, to breed and educate their own children;
                    nay, one might almost say, to breed and educate their own individual thoughts
                    and desires.
                I am gradually working my way through that confusion of enthusiastic assent and
                    ill?defined suspicion with which your “Modern Utopia” has filled me. And now I
                    find that while wishing with all my heart for your well organised republic,
                    while longing to become a knightly priest of progress, while hankering even for
                    a little sound persecution of literary fops like your Bare?legged
                    Nature?worshipper and your Sentimental Philistine with his Lady and his Dear
                    Doggie; while at all events accepting your religion of responsibility and
                    foresight as the one my soul has ever yearned for; while ... well, while all
                    this has been going on, something has murmured in my innermost ear, “Beware of a
                    new perfunctory ritual, a new hypocrisy, a new intolerance; beware of a new
                    superstition—”
                For this perpetual reaching out to the Future is a violation of Reality. Mankind
                    has not bothered much about the Future because it has had its hands full with
                    the Present. And mankind—such, at least, is my crass instinctive
                        philosophy—mankind has been right. And what is more, you, dear
                    Mr. Wells, know this far better than I, and have shown it with passionate pathos
                    and humour in “Mr. Lewisham” and “Kipps”; and it is only when you sit down to
                    systematise and specialise the Future that you forget this living knowledge, as
                    specialists and system?makers always forget all save the speciality and the
                    system. The metaphysics  of your worship of
                    the Future are, I venture to say, wrong, as wrong as those of any other priest
                    preaching of any other Kingdom of Heaven.
                Life is not a single?aimed effort towards continuance and development, towards
                    becoming somebody or something different. Seen through the scheme of the
                    historian or biologist, its facts grouped and accentuated into his special
                    intellectual pattern, life is a ceaseless becoming. But looked at,
                    or rather felt, in a different way, life takes the signification of a
                        ceaseless being; and as a being, not a
                        becoming, does life affect the real creature and constitute
                    real experience. Life (even the life of those Patriarchs who did nothing but be
                    begotten and beget) is not merely procreation, but endurance; and if each
                    individual were not busy making his own few years, nay, his own hour and minute,
                    tolerable, the Race, for all its metaphorical powers of survival, would have
                    died out a good while ago; nor would there be much talk of a future (on earth or
                    off it) if there were not a most imperious present, full of ease and
                    distress.
                Even as theologians inventoried life according to the requirements of a day of
                    judgment, so, particularly since Schopenhauer and Darwin, philosophers have
                    taken in account only the qualities which, because they are useful, are
                    perpetuated; and have denied utility to those which are not perpetual.
                    Philosophers have fixed their eyes on the Will?to?Continue, belonging to that
                    abstraction, the Race; and have neglected the Will?not?to?Suffer, belonging to
                    the individual; a Will quite as important and a good deal more
                    ascertainable.
                
                For would there have been any human or animal action at all, any thought, any
                    volition, any effort, any food, or any love, but for the fact of individual
                    pain, discomfort, distress, and its poor younger sister, individual
                    satisfaction? Would you, dear Mr. Wells, and your Samurai and New?Republicans, and your humble admirer
                    myself—nay, a great many remarkable persons, saints, sages, John?a?Dreamses and
                    Torquemadas of various ages and conditions—have all been busy with Utopias and
                    Paradises and Hells, but for the pressure of that same Will?not?to?Suffer; but
                    for the preferences, intellectual and sentimental yet organic, vicarious yet
                    personal and present, of our own rather odd individuality, and sometimes rather
                    to the inconvenience of our neighbours! Our neighbours, meanwhile, not saints
                    nor sages, nor poets nor heroes, but just the normal philistines beloved of Dr.
                    Nordau, have (as before remarked) furthered and hampered progress by their less
                    peculiar attempts at making the present tolerable. All mankind, superior or
                    inferior, has been busy keeping itself alive by material and metaphorical food
                    and rest, and also by narcotics and stimulants. This latter fact has been a
                    little blinked by utilitarians and moralists, so I wish to insist on it: yes,
                    the human race might have come to an end but for satisfactions and alleviations
                    which have sometimes cost degradation and disease and an increase of misery to
                    themselves and their progeny. The excitement and the dreams of cruelty and
                    superstition have helped to keep the race (because the individual) going, even
                    like the excitement and dreams of alcohol and opium. And the world would be
                    depopulate but for the fact  that human
                    creatures have not merely begotten others, but kept their own vital hopes alive,
                    thanks to the Gods’ wholesale intoxicant called Love. You, dear Mr.
                    Wells, with your Lewishams and Kippses, have brought
                    home to your readers that those lovers, sheepishly ecstatic among the
                    music?filled or moonlit bowers of, say, Folkestone Leas, are re?tempering their
                    own soul, quite as much as replenishing the earth, in the one sort of poetry
                    open to shopmen and housemaids, even as did the cave and lake dwellers, their
                    ancestors. Indeed, you novelists may bring home to psychologists and
                    sociologists and other rather dreary persons this great neglected cosmic fact:
                    that human development depends not only on the warning power of pain, but on the
                    restorative power of pleasure.
                Now, thinking about Utopias and arranging for them is the born Samurai’s pleasure, as similar thinking of God and
                    Heaven and living for these has been the pleasure of the Saint.
                Perhaps the most useful function of all religions (as distinguished from mere
                    codes of conduct which have employed religious sanctions) has been thus to keep
                    alive a certain number of religious people, who, but for the exhilaration of
                    communion with a divinity and the corroborating peacefulness of a communion with
                    fellow?worshippers, would have died for sheer misery and forlornness. Now,
                    religious people have been, and are, a necessary factor in all progress, and
                    only the more necessary for their scarcity.
                Saintliness and heroism have perhaps done little direct good, perhaps done harm,
                    practically and in the way they meant it; they have not been, most likely,  half as fruitful of useful action as the
                    selfish and thoughtless self?seekingness of grosser folk. But they have
                    corrected, pruned, and lopped the instincts of life which otherwise ran to seed
                    of death. There is more than an allegoric significance in chastity being the
                    saintly quality above all others; since chastity, in itself sterile, keeps the
                    young brood, the quickening germ, from neglect, from devastation and death. A
                    certain number must preach and live for altruism, not because altruism is a
                    principle of life, but because the egoistic life?principles are too riotous and
                    self?destructive. And as with thought of one’s neighbour, so also with thought
                    of that neighbour?in?time, the Future. The Future can exist only in the thought
                    and feeling of the Present, as the Neighbour (in so far as Neighbour, as ALTER) exists only in the thought and feeling of the Ego.
                    Both are necessary mitigations of the actually existent, of the imperious
                        now and the imperious self; and both impose
                    qualifications, sometimes prohibitions, on instincts and actions stronger, more
                    vital and necessary, than themselves: “Not thus”—“Not so much”—“Not this at
                    all.” The thought of a neighbour is to make some self
                    less miserable; the thought of a future is to reclaim a possible present. And
                    little by little, as the present becomes richer and the ego more complex, there
                    will enter into the present more and more strands of the future; and the ease
                    and discomfort of the self will be shot and veined more and more subtly and
                    indissolubly with the ease and discomfort of the neighbour. The dreams of the
                    dreamers will slowly become reality. The chaste, sometimes sterile, saints will
                    have bequeathed their features to the offspring of the teeming, the forgotten fleshly generations; and
                    that mystery will happen to which Renan has secretly and fearfully alluded: the
                    Divinity will have been born of the prayers of its worshippers.
                In that Kingdom of Heaven there will be no saints; in the realised Utopia no
                        Samurai; for saints imply sinners and
                        Samurai imply uninitiate. But
                    meanwhile—and I return to my worship of the Present—there has to be a definite
                    worship of the Future. There are Samurai (with
                    recognition in eyes and voice rather than in garb) needed to prevent progress
                    being too perpetually wasted, but not, methinks, to organise it; tender?hearted
                        Samurai physicians to check the birth of
                    the unfit rather than to breed supermen on Mr. Shaw’s principles; sceptical
                        Samurai moralists less to say “believe”
                    and “obey” than to ask “are you quite sure?” and “try for yourself.” And such
                        Samurai, in their serene but sometimes
                    arduous and solitary efforts at (forgive what seems an anti?climax!) humbugging
                    themselves and others as little as possible, will require a religion to keep
                    them alive, a dreamed?of future to console them for the present. They will
                    require a book like your adventures in the Twin?Planet beyond Sirius as an aid
                    to devotion, a latter?day “Pilgrim’s Progress.”
                I am aware, as I write these lines, that there is an air of
                        obscurantism about them. I confess to a superstition in favour
                    of the secret and ironical ways of the Universe, and a perhaps mean?spirited
                    fear of human pre?arrangement of all things; deeming, as I do, that our
                    intellect, though vast, cannot yet compass the Multitudinous Unexpected; and
                    that  what little intelligence and sympathy
                    and will we possess is barely sufficient for everyday use and every day’s
                    unaccountable surprises.
                Thoroughly earnest and strenuous people may stigmatise this attitude as
                        dilettanteish; and I have a notion that they do not really like
                    me. But I feel sure, dear Mr. Wells, that you will protect me against your
                        Samurai and their presumable Index Expurgatorius; nay, that you will pull a few
                    wires, in order that the revised edition of the New Republican
                        Breviary should contain some little high?minded quotation from this
                    over?garrulous letter of your devoted and grateful reader.
            
            
            
                A POSTSCRIPT ABOUT MR. WELLS
                
                A POSTSCRIPT ABOUT MR. WELLS
                
                    I
                    I HAD intended the postscript should be about this book of mine,
                        putting a thread of connection through these essays, and telling the reader,
                        or at least the Reviewer, what it is all about. There were several things to
                        explain, the title for instance, and what was meant by gospels and what was
                        meant by anarchy. Such postscripts (and similar prefaces) are amusing enough
                        to write, if not to read; with some of charm there must have been in the
                        old?fashioned masked ball, where bona fide
                        explanations were taken for mystifications and vice
                            versa. Moreover, after a volume?full of studies of other
                        people’s philosophy, one feels inclined to air one’s own a little, and talk
                        about oneself. This postscript therefore was to have been about my own book,
                        and not at all about that letter to Mr. Wells. And now instead ....
                    For Mr. Wells possesses the intolerable power (the more intolerable that I
                        enjoy the abuse of it) of setting me off thinking anew when I have shaken
                        down comfortably among my own ideas and do not  want to hear any more of his. Thus, since
                        printing that letter (in the Fortnightly Review) which was to
                        have settled Mr. Wells and Utopias for good and all, so far, at least, as
                        concerned myself, I have read the book on America, and am once more
                        perplexed (and delighted) in my mind.
                    Perplexed on various points, which may be summed up thus: Can Mr. Wells be
                        right and I be wrong? Is it possible that my obduracy about Samurai and New Republicans, about
                        constructive socialism and the deliberate scheming out of the future,
                        briefly, about the acceleration of progress by intentional effort, can this,
                        my hardened incredulity, be the result merely of...well, let us say of my
                        having been born under the sign of Laissez
                            Faire, more precisely at the conjunction of Herbert Spencer
                        and Buckle, moreover, in the darkest middle of the dark Nineteenth Century?
                        Otherwise stated: is there really a change abroad, has the new century
                        ushered in new relations between Thought and Practice which we, of the old
                        time, cannot appreciate or even see? The supposition of being in the wrong
                        is always annoying; and the worst of the matter is that I shall never know
                        whether I am or not. For how can superannuated thought think itself out of
                        date? So, like the inquisitive lover in that Tuscan folksong, I should like
                        to die (but Mr. Wells also) a little temporary death, in order to see, not
                        who would weep and who would laugh over our respective biers; but which of
                        us two, Mr. Wells or I, is going to be regarded as the more delightfully
                        quaint by retrospective readers of, let us say, the year Two Thousand.
                    
                    The regrettable imperfections in the Automatic Futuroscope and
                        the Phonograph of the yet Unspoken making it so far impossible
                        to gratify this legitimate curiosity, I shall try and cheat my impatience by
                        informing Future Ages and Mr. Wells what proposals I am willing to make for
                        the benefit of posterity, and what improvements nice people of to?day might
                        really attempt with a view to making the people of the future a good deal
                        nicer than themselves. And in so doing I shall be explaining the title of
                        this volume of essays, and what I mean by gospels, and what I
                        mean by anarchy.
                
                
                    II
                    No longer having a Personal Divinity to whom to devote our surplus moral
                        energies, we many of us want to do something for the Future. We are
                        beginning to substitute for the Grace before meat of our Fathers a less
                        outspoken and less regular, but only the more sincere and efficacious little
                        silent ceremony of thanksgiving whenever we become aware of something
                        fortunate in our daily life. But not of thanksgiving only; there is a spice
                        of fear, and, in consequence, a desire of atonement: Has not someone
                        suffered in the production of this excellent food for body or soul? What of
                        the midnight baker, the serf?ploughman? With what has the oven been heated,
                        and the soil (we have heard of blood for such uses) been manured? The
                        thought not merely of the present toil and want underlying our leisure and
                        luxury,  but of all the past ruthlessness
                        of law and custom which has brought about our morality, all this is apt to
                        upset the balance of our satisfaction and to cause intermittent or steady
                        impulses towards bringing our purer will, our clearer intelligence, as some
                        sort of oblation. The evil of the Past shall be atoned for by the Good of
                        the Future! And, once more, we are becoming millenarians.
                    In this feeling, shared with all religiously minded rationalists of to?day,
                        Mr. Wells and I are fraternally united. We both of us believe in a Kingdom
                        of Heaven on Earth. The difference between us is, that while Mr. Wells would
                        set Disinterested Thinking and Impersonal Feeling the task of actively and
                        positively bringing about this millennium; I should be satisfied with
                        preparing such thought and emotion for service against the coming of the new
                        dispensation, and my wildest hopes would be exceeded if such thought and
                        emotion could cease to be a stumbling?block in the meantime.
                    In that letter of mine to Mr. H. G. Wells, I expressed my conviction that
                        what small amount of civilisation mankind has hitherto achieved is due not
                        so much to any intellectual and moral efforts, as to mankind’s uneasy
                        shifting of burdens and snatching at solaces; in fact, not to the thought of
                        the future but to the care for the present: a process of improvement
                        unconscious and automatic like the Universe’s other processes; like them
                        also in the highest degree wasteful and dilatory. And one of my reasons for
                        this belief is that the bulk of the thinking and feeling intended to help on
                        human improvement has really  not been
                        good enough for the purpose. Not good enough in the sense of not
                        sufficiently impersonal and disciplined.
                    This may seem odd, because the unpracticality of ninety?nine hundredths of
                        all philosophical and religious thought and feeling has made people think
                        that it is if anything too wise and too noble. As a matter of fact, however,
                        in no other fields of human activity has unruly impulse raged with such
                        impunity. For consider: in all practical relations of life the Old Adam of
                        one man is kept within bounds by the Old Adam of another; and is checked
                        moreover by the common consent of the majority, with its master of the
                        ceremonies or policeman. But no such official has ever existed with regard
                        to the things of the spirit. People have indeed been taught, often with
                        demonstrations by the Secular Arm, what to think on certain
                        questions of metaphysics and mythology. But at no time of the world’s
                        history have they been taught how to think whatever they did
                        think: how in the sense of with what degree of self?assertion
                        and self?contradiction, of aggressiveness or equivocation. Indeed, the lack
                        of discipline, of decorum, nay common decency, in mankind’s carriage of
                        their own thought, may be due in part to the theological habits in which,
                        through tradition and through reaction, most thinkers have been brought up.
                        There is a saying of M. Renan’s, that the conception of such a thing as
                        abstract truth was fostered, if not originated, by the doctrinal disputes of
                        early Christianity. And this seems likely, if we mean that theology
                        encouraged the metaphysical habit of considering truth as a kind of entity
                        which a man could or not possess and
                        reverence, and the respectful possession of which sacramental entity sent a
                        man to heaven, instead of to prison and to hell. We are so accustomed to
                        this attitude as not to perceive the grotesqueness of an individual
                        pretending, or believing himself, to be not a human being who has learned
                        and unlearned and is busy thinking out some question, but an oracle?mouth,
                        connected telephonically with the Everlasting Mysteries, and out of which
                        only Truth can be muttered or bellowed: the stoled and mitred
                            We of the Church, surviving dowdily as the We
                        of the Daily Press. Be this as it may, the theological habit of taking for
                        granted, like the legendary Master of Balliol, that what I don’t know
                            isn’t knowledge has to answer for such immodesty and violence in
                        the realms of thought (usually described as serene)as would
                        have otherwise been impossible from individuals who, when not acting as
                        mouthpieces of eternal verity, were perfectly decent, modest and rational.
                        Religious training also, with its constant commentary on the
                        prognostications and anathemas of a school of particularly enigmatical and
                        vituperative Hebrew dervishes, has accidentally accustomed us to endure and
                        even to assume the prophetic attitude; since, when one comes to think of it,
                        the possession of exceptional psychological acumen, of generous purpose and
                        of splendid expression, is not naturally and necessarily allied with the
                        intellectual bad manners and uproariousness indulged in with impunity by
                        Carlyle and Ruskin, Tolstoi and Nietzsche. While, on the other hand,
                        theological disputations, those wonderful jousts of syllogisms with which
                        Abélard or St. Bernard seem to have starred it through all the  capitals of Christendom, have left behind a
                        tendency towards using argument not as a tool for sorting facts, but rather
                        as a weapon for cleaving the skull of an adversary; thus grafting some of
                        the prize?fighter’s brutality on to the more delicate and amiable acrobatic
                        tricks of thought handed down by the sophists of antiquity.
                
                
                    III
                    And here I see an opportunity of doing what, after all, I ought to do,
                        namely, say a word or two about my own book and its title and sub?title. For
                        this volume appears to be, more than anything else, an unintended exposure
                        of such intellectual disorder as we have just been discussing. Unintended;
                        since these essays are in the most literal sense marginalia, mere puttings into shape of the notes taken,
                        often with a pencil on the poor defaced books themselves, in the course of
                        my readings; and the title, “Gospels of Anarchy,” has been extended from the
                        initial essay to the whole volume because the connecting thread throughout
                        it all appears to be my effort to extract some kind of order from the
                        anarchy of the authors under consideration. In every case, even that of the
                        novelists, my marginal notes reveal the need of saving that part of my
                        teachers’ teachings which I could subscribe to from the mass of illogical or
                        exaggerated notions in which it is embedded. The professed anarchists under
                        examination, Stirner, Ibsen, Whitman, Brewster, and Barrès, nay (I am sorry
                        to have to tell him so!) Bernard Shaw, are by no means more subversive, in
                        their most intentional sub? versiveness,
                        than the other apostles who did not dream of preaching or practising
                        intellectual anarchy. On the contrary, one might almost say that the
                        disorder, the passionate unruliness, the blind following of individual
                        impulse, the derision of what other men have thought, the setting at
                        defiance of the modes according to which all mankind has learned to think,
                        the intellectual anarchy, in short, is greatest among upholders of old
                        religious dogmas or ethics, and the framers of carefully thought?out
                        systems. For let me explain once more what I mean by intellectual
                            anarchy. It does not imply revolt from the creed in which a man
                        has been brought up: Ruskin, for a good half of his life, was intellectually
                        lawless precisely because he tried to explain æsthetic and moral phenomena
                        by the theological notions of the past: it is disorderly to connect the
                        political fall of Venice with Palladian architecture, and the inferiority of
                        the later Scaliger tombs with the vices of despots. It is disorderly, when a
                        man has emerged as far as Ruskin in his later and socialistic writings,
                        still to continue thinking in terms of Original Sin. Even at the time of
                        “Fors,” Ruskin was haunted by the notion of a devil, however metaphorical,
                        lurking in our paths, of Evil, with a capital E, poisoning the well?heads of
                        all the holiest things. Ruskin ceased to believe in Christian dogma; but he
                        retained the theological habit of contempt and condemnation which, with; its
                        artificial raising of the judge over the judged, brings with it so much
                        moral perversion and cruelty, so much intellectual crookedness and refusal
                        to see. And these things also are disorder in the spiritual realm; disorder
                        none the less real because it is the
                        disorder inherited from an over?conservative Past, as distinguished from the
                        disorder threatened (like that of professed anarchists) by an impatient
                        Future.
                    Similarly it is disorder in the kingdom of the spirit when one of the noblest
                        and most lucid of thinkers, the incomparable Nietzsche, allows himself, and
                        is allowed by his disciples, to display in his years of saneness the
                        terrible taint of approaching insanity. It is disorder equally when a man
                        capable of being a physician of the soul’s diseases like Nordau, permits
                        himself, and is permitted, to diagnose a whole century’s worth of art and
                        literature as the production of various kinds of mania. Disorder that one of
                        the most unflinching discoverers of social untruth, Tolstoi, condemns not
                        one century’s art, but nearly all the art of all the ages, because it does
                        not point the moral like “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” And—if I may re?state my
                        perhaps audacious opinion—when an illustrious psychologist like William
                        James preaches the Will to believe, there is not merely
                        disorder postulated in the dislocated universe, but disorder actually
                        present in the little world of writers and of readers. I have emphasised, in
                        my previous sentence, the words “allowed” and “permitted.” For part of our
                        habitual intellectual anarchy consists in the fact that instead of
                        mitigating and checking the extravagances to which solitary irresponsibility
                        may lead a thinker, disciples and adversaries must really be charged with
                        the worst of them. For disciples do not become disciples at all unless you
                        furnish them with something wherewith to startle the neighbourhood and annoy
                        their elders; they insist on  your knowing
                        your own mind to the extent of leaving no mind worth knowing; and they thus
                        arrest the natural process by which a thinker drops some of his own mistakes
                        and picks up some of the truths of his rivals: like nothing so much in their
                        action as those parasites whose presence in the body determines ossification
                        of the tissues, premature senility, and a tendency to paralysis or to mania.
                        Should this seem the sour?grapes of a writer chiefly notable for never
                        having had a disciple, let the reader rummage in his memory for any case of
                        a wise man being brought to book by a modest “Aren’t you exaggerating, O
                        Master?”—No: the chorus of disciples is always ready with its “Assuredly, O
                        Socrates—”
                    The adversaries, on the other hand, misunderstanding and misrepresenting,
                        merely exasperate the Sage or Prophet into caricaturing his own ideas in
                        order to oppose theirs. Nor are the criticising adversaries the worst: your
                        original thinker is usually exasperated into absurdity by the fact of
                        criticising some one else, indeed, of recognising the existence of any
                        tendency or views contrary to his own, even if they have been there for
                        centuries, or rather particularly if such is the case. Thus, the fact that
                        Christ’s preachings of mansuetude had had a considerable audience, was, from
                        the practical standpoint, an indication that there is something to be said
                        for Christian virtues and even a place for them in the economy of the
                        reasonable and self?respecting soul. But to Nietzsche (who in such things
                        was not more of a maniac than many other great thinkers) this popularity of
                        Christian ethics was a clear proof that they were unsuitable to the
                        Super?Man; and so, quick, hand me the
                        hammer of Zarathustra to smash them all in smithereens!
                    Of course, it must be said that the Founder of Christianity had in his time
                        laid about him pretty freely against Pharisees and Scribes; and had exacted
                        rather much from the rich young man who was willing to sell part of his
                        estate; in fact so much that the young man seems to have decided to sell
                        none at all. And, in those sacred steps of moral exaggeration, Tolstoi has
                        surely made up for Nietzsche’s Egoism by condemning smoking and bicycling
                        and scented soap as incompatible with love of one’s neighbour .... Thus,
                        taken as a class, moralists and religious teachers of all times have asked
                        too much to obtain anything save dead?letter and reaction; apostolic and
                        Franciscan and Puritan Christianity on the one hand, and all the various
                        Stoical and Rousseau?ish Reason and Nature Worships, on the other, showing
                        us the bankruptcy of all such high?flown unpracticality. While as to the
                        various doctrines erecting the Ego as the centre of all things and
                        inculcating, like that of M. Barrès in his pre?Nationalist days, the
                        cultivation of the Moi, their only
                        recommendation is that they should have ended off in the delightful comedies
                        of Mr. Bernard Shaw.
                    There remain to be considered those philosophers who, leaving morals alone,
                        have undertaken to furnish mankind with the necessary amount of abstract
                        Truth, and to train it to clear and honest thought. This object has been
                        sought chiefly by building symmetrical systems on the sites previously
                        occupied by their rivals’ gazebos, or out of the discarded materials of some
                        crumbled edifice of belief; so that any durable  result has usually been accidental, or at least
                        incidental. A very remarkable book I have lately been reading, the “English
                        Rationalism in the Nineteenth Century” of my old friend Mr. A.W. Benn, has
                        left me with an overpowering impression that the most useful work of modern
                        philosophy (a work, as the Education Bill shows, very far from completed!)
                        has been the slow and arduous casting away of a portion of the Philosophy of
                        Antiquity and the Middle Ages under the name of Established Religion,
                        together with some picturesque remnants, accidentally mixed up with it, of
                        even more venerable, indeed pre?historic, rites and regulations concerning
                        sacrifices, fetishes and totems. Moreover, this indispensable piece of work,
                        besides being merely negative and destructive, has been carried on mainly in
                        that same unintentional, automatic manner in which the other steps of human
                        progress have been secured: metaphysicians and divines having attacked one
                        another from sheer self?assertion, self?interest and pugnacity, and a
                        certain amount of error having luckily been torn down and trampled in these
                        blind and undisciplined scuffles. But neither religion nor philosophy are
                        really to thank for this incidental good result; and neither has shown any
                        compunction for other incidental results of a less profitable kind, of which
                        loss of time and littering the human mind with refuse are among the
                        least.
                    I am aware that all the various exaggerations and errors compensate and
                        neutralise one another in due course. But it seems an unwise arrangement
                        that wisdom and virtue, of all things, should employ half of their day in
                        clearing away the follies of previous 
                        wisdom and virtue, and the other half in devising new follies of their own.
                        In my marginal notes on Tolstoi I have adverted to the successive
                        idol?makings and idol?burnings of which the history of thought chiefly
                        consists. And in those on Nordau’s “Degeneracy” I have tried to show how
                        alternations of being persecuted and persecuting explain the lapses and
                        ravings of great men, without our needing to classify genius with epilepsy
                        or to fall foul of the obscure ancestors of illustrious persons. And the
                        dominant note of this volume of essays is the dreary sense that initiation
                        into the wisdom of the sages and prophets should consist mainly in wading
                        through the rubbish in which that wisdom lies overwhelmed; and in carrying,
                        by a wearying effort, one’s willingness to learn and to respect through that
                        pandemonium of self?assertion and anathema.
                    And this is what I was thinking of when I began by saying that abstract
                        thought and ideal emotions, while imagining themselves too good for
                        practical application, have in reality not been honest, and disciplined and
                        responsible and unselfish enough for use.
                
                
                    IV
                    I can imagine a crass and worldly person remarking that where it is a
                        question of daily bread, or of material convenience, progress, though slow
                        (and Mr. Wells has told us how slow!), is not carried on exclusively upon
                        these lines. And that the prevalence of such disorderly habits in certain
                        departments of human activity  proves that
                        those departments, to wit, philosophy, ethics and every kind of religion,
                        are quite separate from the real life of mankind and have interest only for
                        the persons who cultivate them in so eccentric and fruitless a fashion. M.
                        Renan’s paternal criticism on the symbolist poets might be applied, alas, to
                        the philosophers and moralists of whom he is himself the most sceptically
                        amiable: “Ce sont des enfants qui s’amusent.” Sages and prophets and saints,
                        whether masters or disciples, would thus seem to have been venting their
                        surplus energy according to Mr. Herbert Spencer’s formula of the Play
                            Instinct; and practical persons are aware that the play instinct
                        leads, when to no worse, to sand castles, soap bubbles and mud pies. This is
                        the tacit opinion of the immense majority of human beings; indeed, this
                        judgment is so automatic and organic that it might startle most people to
                        hear it put into words, and only a philosopher and moralist can waste breath
                        in putting it! But looking facts in the face, this unspoken judgment of
                        mankind is probably fairly correct. Philosophic speculation as distinguished
                        from scientific, and ethical ideal as distinguished from superstitious
                        regulations and practices, have, so far, had wonderfully little contact with
                        the life of mankind; mankind has therefore not insisted on their being of a
                        better quality; and not being of a better quality, &c., &c.
                        ’Tis a vicious circle.
                    Here, being myself a philosopher and moralist, I can only, from the bottom of
                        my heart, ejaculate “More’s the pity!” It is a pity that mankind should live
                        from hand to mouth without any veritable 
                        thinking of thoughts or feeling of emotions save those connected with
                        keeping itself tolerably alive and leaving behind a fresh supply of
                        tolerably or intolerably living creatures. It is a dull state of things, and
                        dulness turns easily to stimulants, which do more harm than good. Thinking
                        large thoughts, feeling wide and unselfish emotions, is pleasant; and it
                        ought also to be useful. Mankind is none the better off in practical matters
                        for its own selfishness and narrowness of mind. And (I do not think this can
                        be a mere remnant of teleological superstition) if the play instinct of the
                        race has expressed itself for æons in philosophy and religion, surely it
                        must be that this play instinct (like that of kittens practising how to
                        mouse, or little girls how to put dolls to bed) is the preparation for some
                        useful employment. The time may come, who knows? when intellectual systems
                        and ideal emotions be put to practical use; and then mankind will see to
                        their being, what they have not often been, really usable.
                
                
                    V
                    Now when the Kingdom of Heaven shall be coming on Earth (and for those who
                        believe in it the Kingdom of Heaven is always coming within their lifetime
                        or their children’s!) one of the most unmistakable signs will be the gradual
                        cessation of all self?assertive ragings on the part of the Wise, and the
                        gradual abatement of exaggerated claims and denunciations on the part of the
                        Holy. Philosophers will begin  to think
                        not in opposition but in co?operation, even as the Lion, we are told, will
                        on a similar occasion lie down with the Lamb; and moralists will be full of
                        understanding and respect towards human nature. Prophesying, in the fashion
                        in which Carlyle and Ruskin, Tolstoi and Nietzsche, have carried on that
                        calling, will cease; and most particularly prophesying against other
                        prophets. Idols will no longer be publicly burnt by their former
                        worshippers; and idols will be made only for strictly private devotion.
                        Moral and intellectual health will be sufficient for each to choose how much
                        he can accept of each set of views; intolerance, exaggeration and
                        aggressiveness will no longer be needed to awaken torpid, or keep up
                        vacillating, interest; the consciousness of being able to do but little will
                        be an incentive to do the most; faith will move molehills because it no
                        longer expects to move mountains; and the avowal of such a thing as a
                            will to believe (in the sense of Professor William James)
                        will be recognised as the sign of incapacity for any real belief at all.
                    If this is the change which Mr. Wells expects the twentieth century to
                        inaugurate, why then deliberative planning?out of the Future, Constructive
                        Socialism, and Voluntary Service (of a Samurai type) of Coming Generations, may presently begin to
                        be realised. But the sign of the Coming of Utopia will be the purging and
                        re?tempering of philosophical thought and ethical emotion in the furnace of
                        responsibility.
                    Is this change really about to set in, even if it take almost a geological
                        era to bring to maturity? I am unable to form an opinion; for I belong,
                        alas,  to the generation of the
                        Unreclaimed. But, for anything I can tell, it may be beginning already, with
                        the appearance (if they have appeared!) of a small number of individuals
                        belonging to the practical classes, like Mr. Wells’s “skilled mechanic” and
                        Mr. Shaw’s immortal chauffeur ’Ennery, who will bring into abstract and
                        ideal matters, into philosophy and ethics, some of the modesty of
                        expectation and of the disciplined delicacy of handling without which they
                        could not have perfected a bicycle and driven a motor?car.
                    Accustomed to do their best for the sake of the smallest advantage;
                        accustomed to distrust equally themselves and their material, and to test
                        skill by results; accustomed to work in concert with their mates and keep an
                        eye on the improvements of their rivals; accustomed especially to the
                        chances of success and failure, such people may bring into the things of the
                        Spirit a habit of fair play and self?criticism, of respect for achievement
                        and contempt for perfunctoriness, a sense of responsibility born of dealing
                        with things which have immediate and indisputable consequences, with simple
                        and relentless facts which no definitions and no rhetoric can alter. It may
                        be that this is the case. The integration of ideal thought and aspiration
                        with practical life may be about to begin, may in fact be beginning; the
                        anarchy of idea?less and impractical ideals may be drawing to a close. And
                        the future at our hand, or at least within our sight, may show some
                        application of that capacity for systematic thinking and impersonal emotion
                        which has hitherto seemed little more than  a play instinct of the leisured portions of mankind. It may be. At any
                        rate, Mr. Wells has a right to expect it; and we have a right to expect it
                        when we consider Mr. Wells.
                    For in all his scientific books, but most of all in this latest one on
                        America, Mr. Wells has given us something more valuable than even the most
                        valuable ideas, and something more novel than the newest ones; and that is
                        an example of what the attitude of the individual thinker might and (in my
                        opinion) should be. The thing seems so simple and natural, now it is there,
                        that it is almost unnecessary, and at any rate difficult, to describe it.
                        Mr. Wells is not merely truthful in what he says—many people, including some
                        impostors, have been that: he is truthful in his way of saying it. He does
                        not dogmatise and he does not prophesy; he just thinks his own thoughts and
                        asks us to listen to what he thinks. He does not imagine that he is come
                        with a hammer to break idols and adversaries’ skulls; nor pretend, to
                        himself any more than to others, that he is come as the exponent of
                        consecrated wisdom. He is neither the prophetic I, nor the
                        sacerdotal We. He is just himself, believing in his own
                        thoughts because they are his own, and ready to allow other folk to believe
                        in theirs for the same simple reason. He knows that he is not the Mind of
                        the Universe nor the Conscience of the Centuries, but an individual, like
                        and unlike other individuals, liable to error, but all the more determined
                        to be as little mistaken as may be; unable to attain certainty for himself,
                        but all the more unable to accept it from any one else. In fact he is, in his manner of feeling himself
                        and of presenting himself to others, absolutely true to the reality of the
                        case. Hence he is modest and self?reliant. And above all, knowing that he
                        cannot give as much as is needed, he is generous in giving all he has. It
                        never enters his head to ask anyone to be his follower; he seems never to
                        have heard of those sublime sibylline manners with which prophets threaten
                        to tell you nothing if you are not willing to accept all. What he says is
                        said because it interests himself, and in the wish that it may also interest
                        you; but he recognises that he himself is the person most interested.
                        Similarly, he is no more proud than he is ashamed, of being an individual:
                        he recognises it as the common lot and the sine qua
                            non of activity, though the origin of some drawbacks. He does
                        his best because it is all he can do.
                    It may be that such is a common attitude among scientific workers; I am too
                        ignorant of their ways to tell. What I do know is that it is not the
                        attitude of philosophers and of moralists, of sages and prophets and
                        priests. What it is, undoubtedly, is human or humane, in the sense of being
                        rational and well?bred; giving much, taking much, and not claiming more than
                        one’s own standing?room; moreover that it answers to the reality of things.
                        Hence it is an attitude which will work in with reality’s action. What is
                        more, I feel convinced that this is the attitude of the Future; the one
                        which the Future will require, without any doubt; the one which the future
                        will furnish, I most ardently hope. And in this hope of the gradual coming of intellectual self?restraint
                        and goodwill, I am happy to take leave of the prophets and gospels of the
                        anarchical past and anarchical present.
                
            
            
                
                    January?August, 1907.
                
            
            UNWIN BROTHERS, LIMITED THE GRESHAM PRESS, WOKING AND LONDON.
        
    
