
     ----CITATION----
        Meynell, Alice Christiana Thompson (1847-1922). The Rhythm of Life. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 124 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (26-October-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7144
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE RHYTHM OF LIFE 
                    AND OTHER ESSAYS
                
                BY ALICE MEYNELL 
                
                    LONDON 
                    JOHN LANE:
                        VIGO ST.
                    COPELAND AND DAY
                    BOSTON
                
                1896
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    THE RHYTHM OF LIFE, 1
                    DECIVILISED, 7
                    A REMEMBRANCE, 12
                    THE SUN, 17
                    THE FLOWER, 22
                    UNSTABLE EQUILIBRIUM, 26
                    THE UNIT OF THE WORLD, 29
                    BY THE RAILWAY SIDE, 36
                    POCKET VOCABULARIES, 40
                    PATHOS, 45
                    THE POINT OF HONOUR, 49
                    COMPOSURE, 54
                    DR. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, 60
                    JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL, 68
                    DOMUS ANGUSTA, 74
                    REJECTION, 79
                    THE LESSON OF LANDSCAPE 83
                    MR. COVENTRY PATMORE'S ODES, 89
                    INNOCENCE AND EXPERIENCE, 97
                    PENULTIMATE CARICATURE 101
                
            
        
        
            
            THE RHYTHM OF LIFE
            
            
                THE RHYTHM OF LIFE
                IF life is not always poetical, it is at least metrical. Periodicity
                    rules over the mental experience of man, according to the path of the orbit of
                    his thoughts. Distances are not gauged, ellipses not measured, velocities not
                    ascertained, times not known. Nevertheless, the recurrence is sure. What the
                    mind suffered last week, or last year, it does not suffer now; but it will
                    suffer again next week or next year. Happiness is not a matter of events; it
                    depends upon the tides of the mind. Disease is metrical, closing in at shorter
                    and shorter periods towards death, sweeping abroad at longer and longer
                    intervals towards recovery. Sorrow for one cause was intolerable yesterday, and
                    will be intolerable to-morrow; to-day it is easy to bear, but the cause has not
                    passed. Even the burden of a spiritual distress unsolved is bound to leave the heart to a temporary peace; and
                    remorse itself does not remain—it returns. Gaiety takes us by a dear surprise.
                    If we had made a course of notes of its visits, we might have been on the watch,
                    and would have had an expectation instead of a discovery. No one makes such
                    observations; in all the diaries of students of the interior world, there have
                    never come to light the records of the Kepler of such cycles. But Thomas à
                    Kempis knew of the recurrences, if he did not measure them. In his cell alone
                    with the elements—‘What wouldst thou more than these? for out of these were all
                    things made’—he learnt the stay to be found in the depth of the hour of
                    bitterness, and the remembrance that restrains the soul at the coming of the
                    moment of delight, giving it a more conscious welcome, but presaging for it an
                    inexorable flight. And ‘rarely, rarely comest thou,’ sighed Shelley, not to
                    Delight merely, but to the Spirit of Delight. Delight can be compelled
                    beforehand, called, and constrained to our service—Ariel can be bound to a daily
                    task; but such artificial violence throws life out of metre, and it is not the
                    spirit that is thus compelled. That flits upon an orbit elliptically or parabolically or
                    hyperbolically curved, keeping no man knows what trysts with Time.
                It seems fit that Shelley and the author of the Imitation should
                    both have been keen and simple enough to perceive these flights, and to guess at
                    the order of this periodicity. Both souls were in close touch with the spirits
                    of their several worlds, and no deliberate human rules, no infractions of the
                    liberty and law of the universal movement, kept from them the knowledge of
                    recurrences. Eppur si muove. They knew that
                    presence does not exist without absence; they knew that what is just upon its
                    flight of farewell is already on its long path of return. They knew that what is
                    approaching to the very touch is hastening towards departure. ‘O wind,’ cried
                    Shelley, in autumn, 
                        ‘O wind,
                        If winter comes, can spring be far behind?’
                     They knew that the flux is equal to the reflux; that to interrupt with
                    unlawful recurrences, out of time, is to weaken the impulse of onset and
                    retreat; the sweep and impetus of movement. To live in constant efforts after an
                    equal life, whether the equality be sought in
                    mental production, or in spiritual sweetness, or in the joy of the senses, is to
                    live without either rest or full activity. The souls of certain of the saints,
                    being singularly simple and single, have been in the most complete subjection to
                    the law of periodicity. Ecstasy and desolation visited them by seasons. They
                    endured, during spaces of vacant time, the interior loss of all for which they
                    had sacrificed the world. They rejoiced in the uncovenanted beatitude of
                    sweetness alighting in their hearts. Like them are the poets whom, three times
                    or ten times in the course of a long life, the Muse has approached, touched, and
                    forsaken. And yet hardly like them; not always so docile, nor so wholly prepared
                    for the departure, the brevity, of the golden and irrevocable hour. Few poets
                    have fully recognised the metrical absence of their Muse. For full recognition
                    is expressed in one only way—silence.
                It has been found that several tribes in Africa and in America worship the moon,
                    and not the sun; a great number worship both; but no tribes are known to adore
                    the sun, and not the moon. For the periodicity of the sun is still in part a
                    secret; but that of the moon is modestly
                    apparent, perpetually influential. On her depend the tides; and she is Selene,
                    mother of Herse, bringer of the dews that recurrently irrigate lands where rain
                    is rare. More than any other companion of earth is she the Measurer. Early
                    Indo-Germanic languages knew her by that name. Her metrical phases are the
                    symbol of the order of recurrence. Constancy in approach and in departure is the
                    reason of her inconstancies. Juliet will not receive a vow spoken in invocation
                    of the moon; but Juliet did not live to know that love itself has tidal
                    times—lapses and ebbs which are due to the metrical rule of the interior heart,
                    but which the lover vainly and unkindly attributes to some outward alteration in
                    the beloved. For man—except those elect already named—is hardly aware of
                    periodicity. The individual man either never learns it fully, or learns it late.
                    And he learns it so late, because it is a matter of cumulative experience upon
                    which cumulative evidence is lacking. It is in the after-part of each life that
                    the law is learnt so definitely as to do away with the hope or fear of
                    continuance. That young sorrow comes so near to despair is a result of this
                    young ignorance. So is the early hope of great
                    achievement. Life seems so long, and its capacity so great, to one who knows
                    nothing of all the intervals it needs must hold—intervals between aspirations,
                    between actions, pauses as inevitable as the pauses of sleep. And life looks
                    impossible to the young unfortunate, unaware of the inevitable and unfailing
                    refreshment. It would be for their peace to learn that there is a tide in the
                    affairs of men, in a sense more subtle—if it is not too audacious to add a
                    meaning to Shakespeare—than the phrase was meant to contain. Their joy is flying
                    away from them on its way home; their life will wax and wane; and if they would
                    be wise, they must wake and rest in its phases, knowing that they are ruled by
                    the law that commands all things—a sun's revolutions and the rhythmic pangs of
                    maternity.
            
            
            
                DECIVILISED
                THE difficulty of dealing—in the course of any critical duty—with
                    decivilised man lies in this: when you accuse him of vulgarity—sparing him no
                    doubt the word—he defends himself against the charge of barbarism. Especially
                    from new soil—transatlantic, colonial—he faces you, bronzed, with a half
                    conviction of savagery, partly persuaded of his own youthfulness of race. He
                    writes, and recites, poems about ranches and canyons; they are designed to
                    betray the recklessness of his nature and to reveal the good that lurks in the
                    lawless ways of a young society. He is there to explain himself, voluble, with a
                    glossary for his own artless slang. But his colonialism is only provincialism
                    very articulate. The new air does but make old decadences seem more stale; the
                    young soil does but set into fresh conditions
                    the ready-made, the uncostly, the refuse feeling of a race decivilising.
                    American fancy played long this pattering part of youth. The New-Englander
                    hastened to assure you with so self-denying a face he did not wear war-paint and
                    feathers, that it became doubly difficult to communicate to him that you had
                    suspected him of nothing wilder than a second-hand dress coat. And when it was a
                    question not of rebuke, but of praise, the American was ill-content with the
                    word of the judicious who lauded him for some delicate successes in continuing
                    something of the literature of England, something of the art of France; he was
                    more eager for the applause that stimulated him to write romances and to paint
                    panoramic landscape, after brief training in academies of native inspiration.
                    Even now English voices, with violent commonplace, are constantly calling upon
                    America to begin—to begin, for the world is expectant. Whereas there is no
                    beginning for her, but instead a continuity which only a constant care can guide
                    into sustained refinement and can save from decivilisation.
                But decivilised man is not peculiar to new soil. The English town, too, knows him
                        in all his dailiness. In England, too, he
                    has a literature, an art, a music, all his own—derived from many and various
                    things of price. Trash, in the fulness of its in simplicity and cheapness, is
                    impossible without a beautiful past. Its chief characteristic—which is futility,
                    not failure—could not be achieved but by the long abuse, the rotatory
                    reproduction, the quotidian disgrace, of the utterances of Art, especially the
                    utterance by words. Gaiety, vigour, vitality, the organic quality, purity,
                    simplicity, precision—all these are among the antecedents of trash. It is after
                    them; it is also, alas, because of them. And nothing can be much sadder than
                    such a proof of what may possibly be the failure of derivation.
                Evidently we cannot choose our posterity. Reversing the steps of time, we may,
                    indeed, choose backwards. We may give our thoughts noble forefathers. Well
                    begotten, well born our fancies must be; they shall be also well derived. We
                    have a voice in decreeing our inheritance, and not our inheritance only, but our
                    heredity. Our minds may trace upwards and follow their ways to the best
                    well-heads of the arts. The very habit of our thoughts may be persuaded one way
                    unawares by their antenatal history. Their
                    companions must be lovely, but need be no lovelier than their ancestors; and
                    being so fathered and so husbanded, our thoughts may be intrusted to keep the
                    counsels of literature.
                Such is our confidence in a descent we know. But, of a sequel which of us is
                    sure? Which of us is secured against the dangers of subsequent depreciation?
                    And, moreover, which of us shall trace the contemporary tendencies, the one
                    towards honour, the other towards dishonour? Or who shall discover why
                    derivation becomes degeneration, and where and when and how the bastardy
                    befalls? The decivilised have every grace as the antecedent of their
                    vulgarities, every distinction as the precedent of their mediocrities. No
                    ballad-concert song, feign it sigh, frolic, or laugh, but has the excuse that
                    the feint was suggested, was made easy, by some living sweetness once. Nor are
                    the decivilised to blame as having in their own persons possessed civilisation
                    and marred it. They did not possess it; they were born into some tendency to
                    derogation, into an inclination for things mentally inexpensive. And the
                    tendency can hardly do other than continue.
                    Nothing can look duller than the future of this second-hand and multiplying
                    world. Men need not be common merely because they are many; but the infection of
                    commonness once begun in the many, what dulness in their future! To the eye that
                    has reluctantly discovered this truth—that the vulgarised are not
                        uncivilised, and that there is no growth for them—it does not
                    look like a future at all. More ballad-concerts, more quaint English, more
                    robustious barytone songs, more piecemeal pictures, more young decoration, more
                    colonial poetry, more young nations with withered traditions. Yet it is before
                    this prospect that the provincial overseas lifts up his voice in a boast or a
                    promise common enough among the incapable young, but pardonable only in
                    senility. He promises the world a literature, an art, that shall be new because
                    his forest is untracked and his town just built. But what the newness is to be
                    he cannot tell. Certain words were dreadful once in the mouth of desperate old
                    age. Dreadful and pitiable as the threat of an impotent king, what shall we name
                    them when they are the promise of an impotent people? ‘I will do such things:
                    what they are yet I know not.’
            
            
            
                A REMEMBRANCE
                WHEN the memories of two or three persons now upon earth shall be rolled
                    up and sealed with their records within them, there will be no remembrance left
                    open, except this, of a man whose silence seems better worth interpreting than
                    the speech of many another. Of himself he has left no vestiges. It was a common
                    reproach against him that he never acknowledged the obligation to any kind of
                    restlessness. The kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, but as he did none there
                    was nothing for it but that the kingdom of heaven should yield to his leisure.
                    The delicate, the abstinent, the reticent graces were his in the heroic degree.
                    Where shall I find a pen fastidious enough to define and limit and enforce so
                    many significant negatives? Words seem to offend by too much assertion, and to
                    check the suggestions of his reserve. That
                    reserve was life-long. Loving literature, he never lifted a pen except to write
                    a letter. He was not inarticulate, he was only silent. He had an exquisite style
                    from which to refrain. The things he abstained from were all exquisite. They
                    were brought from far to undergo his judgment, if haply he might have selected
                    them. Things ignoble never approached near enough for his refusal; they had not
                    with him so much as that negative connexion. If I had to equip an author I
                    should ask no better than to arm him and invest him with precisely the riches
                    that were renounced by the man whose intellect, by integrity, had become a
                    presence-chamber.
                It was by holding session among so many implicit safeguards that he taught,
                    rather than by precepts. Few were these in his speech, but his personality made
                    laws for me. It was a subtle education, for it persuaded insensibly to a
                    conception of my own. How, if he would not define, could I know what things were
                    and what were not worthy of his gentle and implacable judgment? I must needs
                    judge them for myself, yet he constrained me in the judging. Within that
                    constraint and under that stimulus, which seemed to touch the ultimate springs of thoughts before they sprang, I began to
                    discern all things in literature and in life—in the chastity of letters and in
                    the honour of life—that I was bound to love. Not the things of one character
                    only, but excellent things of every character. There was no tyranny in such a
                    method. His idleness justified itself by the liberality it permitted to his
                    taste. Never having made his love of letters further a secondary purpose, never
                    having bound the literary genius—that delicate Ariel—to any kind of servitude,
                    never having so much as permitted himself a prejudice whereby some of his
                    delights should be stinted while others were indulged beyond the sanctions of
                    modest reason, he barely tolerated his own preferences, which lay somewhat on
                    the hither side of full effectiveness of style. These the range of his reading
                    confessed by certain exclusions. Nevertheless it was not of deficiencies that he
                    was patient: he did but respect the power of pause, and he disliked violence
                    chiefly because violence is apt to confess its own limits. Perhaps, indeed, his
                    own fine negatives made him only the more sensible of any lack of those literary
                    qualities that are bound in their full complement to hold 
                        them-
                        themselves
                     selves at the disposal of the
                    consummate author—to stand and wait, if they may do no more.
                Men said that he led a dilettante life. They
                    reproached him with the selflessness that made him somewhat languid. Others,
                    they seemed to aver, were amateurs at this art or that; he was an amateur at
                    living. So it was, in the sense that he never grasped at happiness, and that
                    many of the things he had held slipped from his disinterested hands. So it was,
                    too, in this unintended sense; he loved life. How should he not have loved a
                    life that his living made honourable? How should he not have loved all arts, in
                    which his choice was delicate, liberal, instructed, studious, docile, austere?
                    An amateur man he might have been called, too, because he was not discomposed by
                    his own experiences, or shaken by the discovery which life brings to us—that the
                    negative quality of which Buddhism seems to accuse all good is partaken by our
                    happiness. He had always prayed temperate prayers and harboured probable wishes.
                    His sensibility was extreme, but his thought was generalised. When he had joy he
                    tempered it not in the common way by meditation upon the general sorrow but by a
                    recollection of the general pleasure. It was
                    his finest distinction to desire no differences, no remembrance, but loss among
                    the innumerable forgotten. And when he suffered, it was with so quick a nerve
                    and yet so wide an apprehension that the race seemed to suffer in him. He pitied
                    not himself so tenderly as mankind, of whose capacity for pain he was then
                    feelingly persuaded. His darkening eyes said in the extreme hour: ‘I have
                    compassion on the multitude.’
            
            
            
                THE SUN
                NOWHERE else does the greater light so rule the day, so measure, so
                    divide, so reign, make so imperial laws, so visibly kindle, so immediately
                    quicken, so suddenly efface, so banish, so restore, as in a plain like this of
                    Suffolk with its enormous sky. The curious have an insufficient motive for going
                    to the mountains if they do it to see the sunrise. The sun that leaps from a
                    mountain peak is a sun past the dew of his birth; he has walked some way towards
                    the common fires of noon. But on the flat country the uprising is early and
                    fresh, the arc is wide, the career is long. The most distant clouds, converging
                    in the beautiful and little-studied order of cloud-perspective (for most
                    painters treat clouds as though they formed perpendicular and not horizontal
                    scenery), are those that gather at the central point of sunrise. On the plain, and there only, can the
                    construction—but that is too little vital a word; I should rather say the
                    organism—the unity, the design, of a sky be understood. The light wind that has
                    been moving all night is seen to have not worked at random. It has shepherded
                    some small flocks of cloud afield and folded others. There's husbandry in
                    Heaven. And the order has, or seems to have, the sun for its midst. Not a line,
                    not a curve, but confesses its membership in a design declared from horizon to
                    horizon.
                To see the system of a sky in fragments is to miss what I learn to look for in
                    all achieved works of Nature and art: the organism that is unity and life. It is
                    the unity and life of painting. The Early Victorian picture—(the school is still
                    in full career, but essentially it belongs to that triumphal period)—is but a
                    dull sum of things put together, in concourse, not in relation; but the true
                    picture is one, however multitudinous it may be, for it is composed
                    of relations gathered together in the unity of perception, of intention, and of
                    light. It is organic. Moreover, how truly relation is the condition of life may
                    be understood from the extinct state of the English stage, which resembles nothing so much as a Royal Academy picture.
                    Even though the actors may be added together with something like vivacity
                    (though that is rare), they have no vitality in common. They are not members one
                    of another. If the Church and Stage Guild be still in existence, it would do
                    much for the art by teaching that Scriptural maxim. I think, furthermore, that
                    the life of our bodies has never been defined so suggestively as by one who
                    named it a living relation of lifeless atoms. Could the value of relation be
                    more curiously set forth? And one might penetrate some way towards a
                    consideration of the vascular organism of a true literary style in which there
                    is a vital relation of otherwise lifeless word with word. And wherein lies the
                    progress of architecture from the stupidity of the pyramid and the dead weight
                    of the Cyclopean wall to the spring and the flight of the ogival arch, but in a
                    quasi-organic relation? But the way of such thoughts might be intricate, and the
                    sun rules me to simplicity.
                He reigns as centrally in the blue sky as in the clouds. One October of late had
                    days absolutely cloudless. I should not have
                    certainly known it had there been a hill in sight. The gradations of the blue
                    are incalculable, infinite, and they deepen from the central fire. As to the
                    earthly scenery, there are but two ‘views’ on the plain; for the aspect of the
                    light is the whole landscape. To look with the sun or against the sun—this is
                    the alternative splendour. To look with the sun is to face a golden country,
                    shadowless, serene, noble and strong in light, with a certain lack of relief
                    that suggests—to those who dream of landscape—the country of a dream. The
                    serried pines, and the lighted fields, and the golden ricks of the farms are
                    dyed with the sun as one might paint with a colour. Bright as it is, the glow is
                    rather the dye of sunlight than its luminosity. For by a kind of paradox the
                    luminous landscape is that which is full of shadows—the landscape before you
                    when you turn and face the sun. Not only every reed and rush of the salt
                    marshes, every uncertain aspen-leaf of the few trees, but every particle of the
                    October air shows a shadow and makes a mystery of the light. There is nothing
                    but shadow and sun; colour is absorbed and the landscape is reduced to a shining
                    simplicity. Thus is the dominant sun sufficient
                    for his day. His passage kindles to unconsuming fires and quenches into living
                    ashes. No incidents save of his causing, no delight save of his giving: from the
                    sunrise, when the larks, not for pairing, but for play, sing the only virginal
                    song of the year—a heart younger than Spring's in the season of decline—even to
                    the sunset, when the herons scream together in the shallows. And the sun
                    dominates by his absence, compelling the low country to sadness in the
                    melancholy night.
            
            
            
                THE FLOWER
                THERE is a form of oppression that has not until now been confessed by
                    those who suffer from it or who are participants, as mere witnesses, in its
                    tyranny. It is the obsession of man by the flower. In the shape of the flower
                    his own paltriness revisits him—his triviality, his sloth, his cheapness, his
                    wholesale habitualness, his slatternly ostentation. These return to him and
                    wreak upon him their dull revenges. What the tyranny really had grown to can be
                    gauged nowhere so well as in country lodgings, where the most ordinary things of
                    design and decoration have sifted down and gathered together, so that foolish
                    ornament gains a cumulative force and achieves a conspicuous commonness. Stem
                    and petal and leaf—the fluent forms that a man has not by heart but certainly by
                    rote—are woven, printed, cast, and stamped
                    wherever restlessness and insimplicity have feared to leave plain spaces. The
                    most ugly of all imaginable rooms, which is probably the parlour of a farm-house
                    arrayed for those whom Americans call summer-boarders, is beset with flowers. It
                    blooms, a dry, woollen, papery, cast-iron garden. The floor flourishes with
                    blossoms adust, poorly conventionalised into a kind of order; the table-cover is
                    ablaze with a more realistic florescence; the wall-paper is set with bunches;
                    the rigid machine-lace curtain is all of roses and lilies in its very
                    construction, over the muslin blinds an impotent sprig is scattered. In the
                    worsted rosettes of the bell-ropes, in the plaster picture-frames, in the
                    painted tea-tray and on the cups, in the pediment of the sideboard, in the
                    ornament that crowns the barometer, in the finials of sofa and arm-chair, in the
                    finger-plates of the ‘grained’ door, is to be seen the ineffectual portrait or
                    to be traced the stale inspiration of the flower. And what is this bossiness
                    around the grate but some blunt, black-leaded garland? The recital is wearisome,
                    but the retribution of the flower is precisely weariness. It is the persecution
                    of man, the haunting of his trivial visions,
                    and the oppression of his inconsiderable brain.
                The man so possessed suffers the lot of the weakling—subjection to the smallest
                    of the things he has abused. The designer of cheap patterns is no more
                    inevitably ridden by the flower than is the vain and transitory author by the
                    phrase. But I had rather learn my decoration of the Japanese, and place against
                    the blank wall one pot plain from the wheel, holding one singular branch in
                    blossom, in the attitude and accident of growth. And I could wish abstention to
                    exist, and even to be evident, in my words. In literature as in all else man
                    merits his subjection to trivialities by a kind of economical greed. A condition
                    for using justly and gaily any decoration would seem to be a certain reluctance.
                    Ornament—strange as the doctrine sounds in a world decivilised—was in the
                    beginning intended to be something jocund; and jocundity was never to be
                    achieved but by postponement, deference, and modesty. Nor can the prodigality of
                    the meadows in May be quoted in dispute. For Nature has something even more
                    severe than moderation: she has an innumerable singleness. Her butter-cup
                    meadows are not prodigal; they show multitude,
                    but not multiplicity, and multiplicity is exactly the disgrace of decoration.
                    Who has ever multiplied or repeated his delights? or who has ever gained the
                    granting of the most foolish of his wishes—the prayer for reiteration? It is a
                    curious slight to generous Fate that man should, like a child, ask for one thing
                    many times. Her answer every time is a resembling but new and single gift; until
                    the day when she shall make the one tremendous difference among her gifts—and
                    make it perhaps in secret—by naming one of them the ultimate. What, for novelty,
                    what, for singleness, what, for separateness, can equal the last? Of many
                    thousand kisses the poor last—but even the kisses of your mouth are all
                    numbered.
            
            
            
                UNSTABLE EQUILIBRIUM
                IT is principally for the sake of the leg that a change in the dress of
                    man is so much to be desired. The leg, completing as it does the form of man,
                    should make a great part of that human scenery which is at least as important as
                    the scenery of geological structure, or the scenery of architecture, or the
                    scenery of vegetation, but which the lovers of mountains and the preservers of
                    ancient buildings have consented to ignore. The leg is the best part of the
                    figure, inasmuch as it has the finest lines and therewith those slender,
                    diminishing forms which, coming at the base of the human structure, show it to
                    be a thing of life by its unstable equilibrium. A lifeless structure is in
                    stable equilibrium; the body, springing, poised, upon its fine ankles and narrow
                    feet, never stands without implying and expressing life. It is the leg that
                    first suggested the phantasy of flight. We
                    imagine wings to the figure that is erect upon the vital and tense legs of man;
                    and the herald Mercury, because of his station, looks new-lighted. All this is
                    true of the best leg, and the best leg is the man's. That of the young child, in
                    which the Italian schools of painting delighted, has neither movement nor
                    supporting strength. In the case of the woman's figure it is the foot, with its
                    extreme proportional smallness, that gives the precious instability, the spring
                    and balance that are so organic. But man should no longer disguise the long
                    lines, the strong forms, in those lengths of piping or tubing that are of all
                    garments the most stupid. Inexpressive of what they clothe as no kind of
                    concealing drapery could ever be, they are neither implicitly nor explicitly
                    good raiment. It is hardly possible to err by violence in denouncing them. Why,
                    when a bad writer is praised for ‘clothing his thought,’ it is to modern raiment
                    that one's nimble fancy flies—fain of completing the beautiful metaphor!
                The human scenery: yes, costume could make a crowd something other than the mass
                    of sooty colour—dark without depth—and the multiplication of undignified forms
                    that fill the streets, and demonstrate, and
                    strike, and listen to the democrat. For the undistinguished are very important
                    by their numbers. These are they who make the look of the artificial world. They
                    are man generalised; as units they inevitably lack something of interest; all
                    the more have they cumulative effect. It would be well if we could persuade the
                    average man to take on a certain human dignity in the clothing of his average
                    body. Unfortunately he will be slow to be changed. And as to the poorer part of
                    the mass, so wretched are their national customs—and the wretchedest of them all
                    the wearing of other men's old raiment—that they must wait for reform until the
                    reformed dress, which the reformers have not yet put on, shall have turned
                    second-hand.
            
            
            
                THE UNIT OF THE WORLD
                THE quarrel of Art with Nature goes on apace. The painters have long
                    been talking of selecting, then of rejecting, or even, with Mr. Whistler, of
                    supplanting. And then Mr. Oscar Wilde, in the witty and delicate series of
                    inversions which he headed ‘The Decay of Lying,’ declared war with all the
                    irresponsibility naturally attending an act so serious. He seems to affirm that
                    Nature is less proportionate to man than is architecture; that the house is
                    built and the sofa is made measurable by the unit measure of the body; but that
                    the landscape is set to some other scale. ‘I prefer houses to the open air. In a
                    house we all feel of the proper proportions. Egotism itself, which is so
                    necessary to a proper sense of human dignity, is absolutely the result of indoor
                    life.’ Nevertheless, before it is too late, let
                    me assert that though nature is not always clearly and obviously made to man's
                    measure, he is yet the unit by which she is measurable. The proportion may be
                    far to seek at times, but the proportion is there. Man's farms about the lower
                    Alps, his summer pastures aloft, have their relation to the whole construction
                    of the range; and the range is great because it is great in regard to the
                    village lodged in a steep valley in the foot hills. The relation of flower and
                    fruit to his hands and mouth, to his capacity and senses (I am dealing with
                    size, and nothing else), is a very commonplace of our conditions in the world.
                    The arm of man is sufficient to dig just as deep as the harvest is to be sown.
                    And if some of the cheerful little evidences of the more popular forms of
                    teleology are apt to be baffled, or indefinitely postponed, by the retorts that
                    suggest themselves to the modern child, there remains the subtle and
                    indisputable witness borne by art itself: the body of man composes with the mass
                    and the detail of the world. The picture is irrefutable, and the picture
                    arranges the figure amongst its natural accessories in the landscape, and would
                    not have them otherwise.
                
                But there is one conspicuous thing in the world to which man has not served as a
                    unit of proportion, and that one thing is a popularly revered triumph of that
                    very art of architecture in which Mr. Oscar Wilde has confidence for keeping
                    things in scale. Human ingenuity in designing St. Peter's on the Vatican, has
                    achieved this one exception to the universal harmony—a harmony enriched by
                    discords, but always on one certain scale of notes—which the body makes with the
                    details of the earth. It is not in the landscape, where Mr. Oscar Wilde has too
                    rashly looked for contempt and contumely, but in the art he holds precious as
                    the minister to man's egotism, that man's Ego is defied. St. Peter's is not
                    necessarily too large (though on other grounds its size might be liable to
                    correction); it is simply out of relation to the most vital thing on the
                    earth—the thing which has supplied some secret rod to measure the waves withal,
                    and the whales, the sea-wall cliffs, the ears of wheat, the cedar-branches,
                    pines and diamonds and apples. Now, Emerson would certainly not have felt the
                    soft shock and stimulus of delight to which he confesses himself to be liable at
                    the first touch of certain phrases, had not the
                    words in every case enclosed a promise of further truth and of a second
                    pleasure. One of these swift and fruitful experiences visited him with the
                    saying—grown popular through him—that an architect should have a knowledge of
                    anatomy. There is assuredly a germ and a promise in the phrase. It delights us,
                    first, because it seems to recognise the organic, as distinct from the merely
                    constructive, character of finely civilised architecture; and next, it persuades
                    us that Vitruvius had in truth discovered the key to size—the unit that is
                    sometimes so obscurely, yet always so absolutely, the measure of what is great
                    and small among things animate and inanimate. And in spite of themselves the
                    architects of St. Peter's were constrained to take something from man; they
                    refused his height for their scale, but they tried to use his shape for their
                    ornament. And so in the blankest dearth of fancy that ever befel architect or
                    builder they imagined human beings bigger than the human beings of experience;
                    and by means of these, carved in stone and inlaid in mosaic, they set up a
                    relation of their own. The basilica was related to the colossal figure (as a church more wisely measured would have been
                    to living man), and so ceased to be large; and nothing more important was
                    finally achieved than transposal of the whole work into another scale of
                    proportions—a scale in which the body of man was not the unit. The pile of
                    stones that make St. Peter's is a very little thing in comparison with Soracte;
                    but man, and man's wife, and the unequal statures of his children, are in touch
                    with the structure of the mountain rather than with that of the church which has
                    been conceived without reference to the vital and fundamental rule of his
                    inches.
                Is there no egotism, ministering to his dignity, that man, having the law of the
                    organism of the world written in his members, can take with him, out of the room
                    that has been built to accord with him, into the landscape that stands only a
                    little further away? He has deliberately made the smoking chair and the table;
                    there is nothing to surprise him in their ministrations. But what profounder
                    homage is rendered by the multitudinous Nature going about the interests and the
                    business of which he knows so little, and yet throughout confessing him! His
                        eyes have seen her and his ears have heard,
                    but it would never have entered into his heart to conceive her. His is not the
                    fancy that could have achieved these woods, this little flush of summer from the
                    innumerable flowering of grasses, the cyclic recreation of seasons. And yet he
                    knows that he is imposed upon all he sees. His stature gives laws. His labour
                    only is needful—not a greater strength. And the sun and the showers are made
                    sufficient for him. His furniture must surely be adjudged to pay him but a
                    coarse flattery in comparison with the subjection, yet the aloofness, of all
                    this wild world. This is no flattery. The grass is lumpy, as Mr. Oscar Wilde
                    remarks with truth: Nature is not man's lacquey, and has no pre-occupation about
                    his more commonplace comforts. These he gives himself indoors; and who prizes,
                    with any self-respect, the things carefully provided by self-love? But when that
                        farouche Nature, who has never spoken to
                    him, and to whom he has never had the opportunity of hinting his wishes or his
                    tastes—when she reveals the suggestions of his form and the desire of his eyes,
                    and amongst her numberless purposes lets him surprise in her the purpose to
                        accord with him, and lets him suspect
                    further harmonies which he has not yet learnt to understand—then man becomes
                    conscious of having received a token from her lowliness, and a favour from her
                    loveliness, compared with which the care wherewith his tailor himself has fitted
                    him might leave his gratitude cool.
            
            
            
                BY THE RAILWAY SIDE
                MY train drew near to the Via Reggio platform on a day between two of
                    the harvests of a hot September; the sea was burning blue, and there were a
                    sombreness and a gravity in the very excesses of the sun as his fires brooded
                    deeply over the serried, hardy, shabby, seaside ilex-woods. I had come out of
                    Tuscany and was on my way to the Genovesato: the steep country with its
                    profiles, bay by bay, of successive mountains grey with olive-trees, between the
                    flashes of the Mediterranean and the sky; the country through the which there
                    sounds the twanging Genoese language, a thin Italian mingled with a little
                    Arabic, more Portuguese, and much French. I was regretful at leaving the elastic
                    Tuscan speech, canorous in its vowels set in emphatic l's and
                        m's and the vigorous soft spring of the double consonants. But
                    as the train arrived its noises were drowned by
                    a voice declaiming in the tongue I was not to hear again for months—good
                    Italian. The voice was so loud that one looked for the audience: Whose ears was
                    it seeking to reach by the violence done to every syllable, and whose feelings
                    would it touch by its insincerity? The tones were insincere, but there was
                    passion behind them; and most often passion acts its own true character poorly,
                    and consciously enough to make good judges think it a mere counterfeit. Hamlet,
                    being a little mad, feigned madness. It is when I am angry that I pretend to be
                    angry, so as to present the truth in an obvious and intelligible form. Thus even
                    before the words were distinguishable it was manifest that they were spoken by a
                    man in serious trouble who had false ideas as to what is convincing in
                    elocution.
                When the voice became audibly articulate, it proved to be shouting blasphemies
                    from the broad chest of a middle-aged man—an Italian of the type that grows
                    stout and wears whiskers. The man was in bourgeois dress, and he stood with his hat off in front of the
                    small station building, shaking his thick fist at the sky. No one was on the
                    platform with him except the railway officials, who seemed in doubt as to their duties in the matter, and two
                    women. Of one of these there was nothing to remark except her distress. She wept
                    as she stood at the door of the waiting-room. Like the second woman, she wore
                    the dress of the shopkeeping class throughout Europe, with the local black lace
                    veil in place of a bonnet over her hair. It is of the second woman—O unfortunate
                    creature!—that this record is made—a record without sequel, without consequence;
                    but there is nothing to be done in her regard except so to remember her. And
                    thus much I think I owe after having looked, from the midst of the negative
                    happiness that is given to so many for a space of years, at some minutes of her
                    despair. She was hanging on the man's arm in her entreaties that he would stop
                    the drama he was enacting. She had wept so hard that her face was disfigured.
                    Across her nose was the dark purple that comes with overpowering fear. Haydon
                    saw it on the face of a woman whose child had just been run over in a London
                    street. I remembered the note in his journal as the woman at Via Reggio, in her
                    intolerable hour, turned her head my way, her sobs lifting it. She was afraid
                    that the man would throw 
                        him-
                        himself
                     self under the train. She was afraid
                    that he would be damned for his blasphemies; and as to this her fear was mortal
                    fear. It was horrible, too, that she was humpbacked and a dwarf.
                Not until the train drew away from the station did we lose the clamour. No one
                    had tried to silence the man or to soothe the woman's horror. But has any one
                    who saw it forgotten her face? To me for the rest of the day it was a sensible
                    rather than a merely mental image. Constantly a red blur rose before my eyes for
                    a background, and against it appeared the dwarf's head, lifted with sobs, under
                    the provincial black lace veil. And at night what emphasis it gained on the
                    boundaries of sleep! Close to my hotel there was a roofless theatre crammed with
                    people, where they were giving Offenbach. The operas of Offenbach still exist in
                    Italy, and the little town was placarded with announcements of La Bella
                        Elena. The peculiar vulgar rhythm of the music jigged audibly through
                    half the hot night, and the clapping of the town's-folk filled all its pauses.
                    But the persistent noise did but accompany, for me, the persistent vision of
                    those three figures at the Via Reggio station in the profound sunshine of the
                    day.
            
            
            
                POCKET VOCABULARIES
                A serviceable substitute for style in literature has been found in such
                    a collection of language ready for use as may be likened to a portable
                    vocabulary. It is suited to the manners of a day that has produced
                    salad-dressing in bottles, and many other devices for the saving of processes.
                    Fill me such a wallet full of ‘graphic’ things, of ‘quaint’ things and ‘weird,’
                    of ‘crisp’ or ‘sturdy’ Anglo-Saxon, of the material for ‘word-painting’ (is not
                    that the way of it?), and it will serve the turn. Especially did the Teutonic
                    fury fill full these common little hoards of language. It seemed, doubtless, to
                    the professor of the New Literature, that if anything could convince him of his
                    own success it must be the energy of his Teutonisms and his avoidance of languid
                    Latin derivatives, fit only for the pedants of the eighteenth century. Literature doubtless is made of
                    words. What then is needful, he seems to ask, besides a knack of beautiful
                    words? Unluckily for him, he has achieved, not style, but slang. Unluckily for
                    him, words are not style, phrases are not style. ‘The man is style.’ O good
                    French language, cunning and good, that lets me read the sentence in obverse or
                    converse as I will! And I read it as declaring that the whole man, the very
                    whole of him, is his style. The literature of a man of letters worthy the name
                    is rooted in all his qualities, with little fibres running invisibly into the
                    smallest qualities he has. He who is not a man of letters, simply is not one; it
                    is not too audacious a paradox to affirm that doing will not avail him who fails
                    in being. ‘Lay your deadly doing down,’ sang once some old hymn known to
                    Calvinists. Certain poets, a certain time ago, ransacked the language for words
                    full of life and beauty, made a vocabulary of them, and out of wantonness wrote
                    them to death. To change somewhat the simile, they scented out a word—an
                    earlyish word, by preference—ran it to earth, unearthed it, dug it out, and
                    killed it. And then their followers bagged it. The very word that lives, ‘new every morning,’ miraculously
                    new, in the literature of a man of letters, they killed and put into their bag.
                    And, in like manner, the emotion that should have caused the word is dead for
                    those, and for those only, who abuse its expression. For the maker of a portable
                    vocabulary is not content to turn his words up there: he turns up his feelings
                    also, alphabetically or otherwise. Wonderful how much sensibility is at hand in
                    such round words as the New Literature loves. Do you want a generous emotion?
                    Pull forth the little language. Find out moonshine, find out moonshine!
                Take, as an instance, Mr. Swinburne's ‘hell.’ There is, I fear, no doubt whatever
                    that Mr. Swinburne has put his ‘hell’ into a vocabulary, with the inevitable
                    consequences to the word. And when the minor men of his school have occasion for
                    a ‘hell’ (which may very well happen to any young man practising authorship), I
                    must not be accused of phantasy if I say that they put their hands into Mr.
                    Swinburne's vocabulary and pick it. These vocabularies are made out of vigorous
                    and blunt language. ‘What hempen homespuns have we swaggering here?’ Alas, they
                        are homespuns from the factory,
                    machine-made in uncostly quantities. Obviously, power needs to make use of no
                    such storage. The property of power is to use phrases, whether strange or
                    familiar, as though it created them. But even more than lack of power is lack of
                    humour the cause of all the rankness and the staleness, of all the Anglo-Saxon
                    of commerce, of all the weary ‘quaintness’—that quaintness of which one is moved
                    to exclaim with Cassio: ‘Hither comes the bauble!’ Lack of a sense of humour
                    betrays a man into that perpetual too-much whereby he tries to make amends for a
                    currency debased. No more than any other can a witty writer dispense with a
                    sense of humour. In his moments of sentiment the lack is distressing; in his
                    moments of wit it is at least perceptible. A sense of humour cannot be always
                    present, it may be urged. Why, no; it is the lack of it that is—importunate.
                    Other absences, such as the absence of passion, the absence of delicacy, are, if
                    grievous negatives, still mere negatives. These qualities may or may not be
                    there at call, ready for a summons; we are not obliged to know; we are not
                    momentarily aware, unless they ought to be in action, whether their action is
                    possible. But want of power and want of a sense
                    of the ridiculous: these are lacks wherefrom there is no escaping, deficiencies
                    that are all-influential, defects that assert themselves, vacancies that
                    proclaim themselves, absences from the presence whereof there is no flying; what
                    other paradoxes can I adventure? Without power—no style. Without a possible
                    humour,—no style. The weakling has no confidence in himself to keep him from
                    grasping at words that he fancies hold within them the true passions of the
                    race, ready for the uses of his egoism. And with a sense of humour a man will
                    not steal from a shelf the precious treasure of the language and put it in his
                    pocket.
            
            
            
                PATHOS
                A FUGITIVE writer wrote but lately on the fugitive page of a minor
                    magazine: ‘For our part, the drunken tinker [Christopher Sly] is the most real
                    personage of the piece, and not without some hints of the pathos that is worked
                    out more fully, though by different ways, in Bottom and Malvolio.’ Has it indeed
                    come to this? Have the Zeitgeist and the Weltschmerz and the other things
                    compared to which ‘le spleen’ was gay, done so much for us? Is there to be no
                    laughter left in literature free from the preoccupation of a sham real-life? So
                    it would seem. Even what the great master has not shown us in his work, that
                    your critic convinced of pathos is resolved to see in it. By the penetration of
                    his intrusive sympathy he will come at it. It is of little use now to explain
                    Snug the joiner to the audience: why, it is
                    precisely Snug who stirs their emotions so painfully. Not the lion; they can see
                    through that: but the Snug within, the human Snug. And Master Shallow has the
                    Weltschmerz in that latent form which is the more appealing; and discouraging
                    questions arise as to the end of old Double; and Argan in his nightcap is the
                    tragic figure of Monomania; and human nature shudders at the petrifaction of the
                    intellect of Mr. F.'s aunt. Et patati, et
                        patata.
                It may be only too true that the actual world is ‘with pathos delicately edged.’
                    For Malvolio living we should have had living sympathies: so much aspiration, so
                    ill-educated a love of refinement; so unarmed a credulity, noblest of
                    weaknesses, betrayed for the laughter of a chambermaid. By an actual Bottom the
                    weaver our pity might be reached for the sake of his single self-reliance, his
                    fancy and resource condemned to burlesque and ignominy by the niggard doom of
                    circumstance. But is not life one thing and is not art another? Is it not the
                    privilege of literature to make selection and to treat things singly, without
                    the after-thoughts of life, without the troublous completeness of the many-sided world? Is not Shakespeare, for this
                    reason, our refuge? Fortunately unreal is his world when he will have it so; and
                    there we may laugh with open heart at a grotesque man: without misgiving,
                    without remorse, without reluctance. If great creating Nature has not assumed
                    for herself she has assuredly secured to the great creating poet the right of
                    partiality, of limitation, of setting aside and leaving out, of taking one
                    impression and one emotion as sufficient for the day. Art and Nature are
                    separate, complementary; in relation, not in confusion, with one another. And
                    all this officious cleverness in seeing round the corner, as it were, of a thing
                    presented by literary art in the flat—(the borrowing of similes from other arts
                    is of evil tendency; but let this pass, as it is apt)—is but another sign of the
                    general lack of a sense of the separation between Nature and the sentient mirror
                    in the mind. In some of his persons, indeed, Shakespeare is as Nature herself,
                    all-inclusive; but in others—and chiefly in comedy—he is partial, he is
                    impressionary, he refuses to know what is not to his purpose, he is an artist.
                    And in that gay, wilful world it is that he gives us—or used to give us, for even the world is obsolete—the pleasure of
                        oubliance.
                Now this fugitive writer has not been so swift but that I have caught him a clout
                    as he went. Yet he will do it again; and those like-minded will assuredly also
                    continue to show how much more completely human, how much more sensitive, how
                    much more responsible, is the art of the critic than the world has ever dreamt
                    till now. And, superior in so much, they will still count their superior weeping
                    as the choicest of their gifts. And Lepidus, who loves to wonder, can have no
                    better subject for his admiration than the pathos of the time. It is bred now of
                    your mud by the operation of your sun. 'Tis a strange serpent; and the tears of
                    it are wet.
            
            
            
                THE POINT OF HONOUR
                NOT without significance is the Spanish nationality of Velasquez. In
                    Spain was the Point put upon Honour; and Velasquez was the first Impressionist.
                    As an Impressionist he claimed, implicity if not explicity, a whole series of
                    delicate trusts in his trustworthiness; he made an appeal to the confidence of
                    his peers; he relied on his own candour and asked that the candid should rely
                    upon him; he kept the chastity of art when other masters were content with its
                    honesty, and when others saved artistic conscience he safeguarded the point of
                    honour. Contemporary masters more or less proved their position, and convinced
                    the world by something of demonstration; the first Impressionist simply asked
                    that his word should be accepted. To those who would not take his word he offers
                    no bond. To those who will, he grants the distinction of a share in his responsibility. Somewhat unrefined,
                    in comparison to his lofty and simple claim to be believed on a suggestion, is
                    the commoner painter's production of his credentials, his appeal to the
                    sanctions of ordinary experience, his self-defence against the suspicion of
                    making irresponsible mysteries in art. ‘You can see for yourself,’ the lesser
                    man seems to say to the world, ‘thus things are, and I render them in such
                    manner that your intelligence may be satisfied.’ This is an appeal to average
                    experience—at the best the cumulative experience; and with the average, or with
                    the sum, art cannot deal without derogation. The Spaniard seems to say: ‘Thus
                    things are in my pictorial sight. Trust me, I apprehend them so.’ We are not
                    excluded from his counsels, but we are asked to attribute a certain authority to
                    him, master of the craft as he is, master of that art of seeing pictorially
                    which is the beginning and not far from the end—not far short of the whole—of
                    the art of painting. So little indeed are we shut out from the mysteries of a
                    great Impressionist's impression that Velasquez requires us to be in some degree
                    his colleagues. Thus may each of us to whom he
                    appeals take praise from the praised: He leaves my educated eyes to do a little
                    of the work. He respects my responsibility no less—though he respects it less
                    explicitly—than I do his. What he allows me would not be granted by a meaner
                    master. If he does not hold himself bound to prove his own truth, he returns
                    thanks for my trust. It is as though he used his countrymen's courteous
                    hyperbole and called his house my own. In a sense of the most noble hostship he
                    does me the honours of his picture.
                Because Impressionism is so free, therefore is it doubly bound. Because there is
                    none to arraign it, it is a thousand times responsible. To undertake this art
                    for the sake of its privileges without confessing its obligations—or at least
                    without confessing them up to the point of honour—is to take a vulgar freedom:
                    to see immunities precisely where there are duties, and an advantage where there
                    is a bond. A very mob of men have taken Impressionism upon themselves in this
                    our later day. It is against all probabilities that more than a few among these
                    have within them the point of honour. In their galleries we are beset with a dim
                    distrust. And to distrust is more humiliating
                    than to be distrusted. How many of these landscape-painters, deliberately rash,
                    are painting the truth of their own impressions? An ethical question as to
                    loyalty is easily answered; truth and falsehood as to fact are, happily for the
                    intelligence of the common conscience, not hard to divide. But when the dubium concerns not fact but artistic truth, can
                    the many be sure that their sensitiveness, their candour, their scruple, their
                    delicate equipoise of perceptions, the vigilance of their apprehension, are
                    enough? Now Impressionists of late have told us things as to their
                    impressions—as to the effect of things upon the temperament of this man and upon
                    the mood of that—which should not be asserted except on the artistic point of
                    honour. The majority can tell ordinary truth, but they should not trust
                    themselves for truth extraordinary. They can face the general judgment, but they
                    should hesitate to produce work that appeals to the last judgment, which is the
                    judgment within. There is too much reason to divine that a certain number of
                    those who aspire to derive from the greatest of masters have no temperaments
                    worth speaking of, no point of view worth seizing, no vigilance worth awaiting, no mood worth waylaying.
                    And to be, de parti pris, an Impressionist
                    without these! O Velasquez! Nor is literature quite free from a like reproach in
                    her own things. An author, here and there, will make as though he had a word
                    worth hearing—nay, worth over-hearing—a word that seeks to withdraw even while
                    it is uttered; and yet what it seems to dissemble is all too probably a
                    platitude. But obviously, literature is not—as is the craft and mystery of
                    painting—so at the mercy of a half-imposture, so guarded by unprovable honour.
                    For the art of painting is reserved that shadowy risk, that undefined salvation.
                    May the gods guard us from the further popularising of Impressionism; for the
                    point of honour is the simple secret of the few.
            
            
            
                COMPOSURE
                TRIBULATION, Immortality, the Multitude: what remedy of composure do
                    these words bring for their own great disquiet! Without the remoteness of the
                    Latinity the thought would come too close and shake too cruelly. In order to the
                    sane endurance of the intimate trouble of the soul an aloofness of language is
                    needful. Johnson feared death. Did his noble English control and postpone the
                    terror? Did it keep the fear at some courteous, deferent distance from the
                    centre of that human heart, in the very act of the leap and lapse of mortality?
                    Doubtless there is in language such an educative power. Speech is a school.
                    Every language is a persuasion, an induced habit, an instrument which receives
                    the note indeed but gives the tone. Every language imposes a quality, teaches a
                    temper, proposes a way, bestows a tradition:
                    this is the tone—the voice—of the instrument. Every language, by counter-change,
                    replies to the writer's touch or breath his own intention, articulate: this is
                    his note. Much has always been said, many things to the purpose have been
                    thought, of the power and the responsibility of the note. Of the legislation and
                    influence of the tone I have been led to think by comparing the tranquillity of
                    Johnson and the composure of Canning with the stimulated and close emotion, the
                    interior trouble, of those writers who have entered as disciples in the school
                    of the more Teutonic English.
                For if every language be a school, more significantly and more educatively is a
                    part of a language a school to him who chooses that part. Few languages offer
                    the choice. The fact that a choice is made implies the results and fruits of a
                    decision. The French author is without these. They are of all the heritages of
                    the English writer the most important. He receives a language of dual
                    derivation. He may submit himself to either University, whither he will take his
                    impulse and his character, where he will leave their influence, and whence he
                    will accept their education. The Frenchman has
                    certainly a style to develop within definite limits; but he does not subject
                    himself to suggestions tending mainly hitherwards or thitherwards, to currents
                    of various race within one literature. Such a choice of subjection is the
                    singular opportunity of the Englishman. I do not mean to ignore the necessary
                    mingling. Happily that mingling has been done once for all for us all. Nay, one
                    of the most charming things that a master of English can achieve is the
                    repayment of the united teaching by linking their results so exquisitely in his
                    own practice, that words of the two schools are made to meet each other with a
                    surprise and delight that shall prove them at once gayer strangers, and sweeter
                    companions, than the world knew they were. Nevertheless there remains the
                    liberty of choice as to which school of words shall have the place of honour in
                    the great and sensitive moments of an author's style: which school shall be used
                    for conspicuousness, and which for multitudinous service. And the choice being
                    open, the perturbation of the pulses and impulses of so many hearts quickened in
                    thought and feeling in this day suggests to me a deliberate return to the
                    recollectedness of the more tranquil language.
                    ‘Doubtless there is a place of peace.’
                A place of peace, not of indifference. It is impossible not to charge some of the
                    moralists of the last century with an indifference into which they educated
                    their platitudes and into which their platitudes educated them. Addison thus
                    gave and took, until he was almost incapable of coming within arm's-length of a
                    real or spiritual emotion. There is no knowing to what distance the removal of
                    the ‘appropriate sentiment’ from the central soul might have attained but for
                    the change and renewal in language, which came when it was needed. Addison had
                    assuredly removed eternity far from the apprehension of the soul when his Cato
                    hailed the ‘pleasing hope,’ the ‘fond desire;’ and the touch of war was distant
                    from him who conceived his ‘repulsed battalions’ and his ‘doubtful battle.’ What
                    came afterwards, when simplicity and nearness were restored once more, was
                    doubtless journeyman's work at times. Men were too eager to go into the workshop
                    of language. There were unreasonable raptures over the mere making of common
                    words. ‘A hand-shoe! a finger-hat! a foreword! Beautiful!’ they cried; and
                        for the love of German the youngest
                    daughter of Chrysale herself might have consented to be kissed by a grammarian.
                    It seemed to be forgotten that a language with all its construction visible is a
                    language little fitted for the more advanced mental processes; that its images
                    are material; and that, on the other hand, a certain spiritualising and
                    subtilising effect of alien derivations is a privilege and an advantage
                    incalculable—that to possess that half of the language within which Latin
                    heredities lurk and Romanesque allusions are at play is to possess the state and
                    security of a dead tongue, without the death.
                But now I spoke of words encountering as gay strangers, various in origin,
                    divided in race, within a master's phrase. The most beautiful and the most
                    sudden of such meetings are of course in Shakespeare. ‘Superfluous kings,’ ‘A
                    lass unparalleled,’ ‘Multitudinous seas:’ we needed not to wait for the
                    eighteenth century or for the nineteenth to learn the splendour of such
                    encounters, of such differences, of such nuptial unlikeness and union. But it is
                    well that we should learn them afresh. And it is well, too, that we should not
                    resist the rhythmic reaction bearing us now 
                        some-
                        somewhat
                     what to the side of the Latin. Such a
                    reaction is in some sort an ethical need for our day. We want to quell the
                    exaggerated decision of monosyllables. We want the poise and the pause that
                    imply vitality at times better than headstrong movement expresses it. And not
                    the phrase only but the form of verse might render us timely service. The
                    controlling couplet might stay with a touch a modern grief, as it ranged in
                    order the sorrows of Canning for his son. But it should not be attempted without
                    a distinct intention of submission on the part of the writer. The couplet
                    transgressed against, trespassed upon, shaken off, is like a law outstripped,
                    defied—to the dignity neither of the rebel nor of the rule. To Letters do we
                    look now for the guidance and direction which the very closeness of the emotion
                    taking us by the heart makes necessary. Shall not the Thing more and more, as we
                    compose ourselves to literature, assume the honour, the hesitation, the leisure,
                    the reconciliation of the Word?
            
            
            
                DR. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES
                IT is good to go, now and again—let the American phrase be
                    permitted—‘back of’ some of our contemporaries. We never desired them as
                    coëvals. We never wished to share an age with them; we share nothing else with
                    them. And we deliver ourselves from them by passing, in literature, into the
                    company of an author who wrote before their time, and yet is familiarly modern.
                    To read Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, then, is to go behind the New Humorist—into a
                    time before he was, or his Humour. Obviously we go in like manner behind many
                    another, but the funny writer of the magazines is suggested because in reference
                    to him our act has a special significance. We connect him with Dr. Holmes by a
                    reluctant ancestry, by an impertinent descent. It may be objected that such a
                    connection is but a trivial thing to attribute,
                    as a conspicuous incident, to a man of letters. So it is. But the triviality has
                    wide allusions. It is often a question which of several significant trivialities
                    a critic shall choose in his communication with a reader who does not insist
                    that all the grave things shall be told him. And, by the way, are we ever
                    sufficiently grateful for that reader, whom the last few years have given to us,
                    or to whom we have been given by the last few years? A trivial connexion has
                    remote and negative issues. To go to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes's period is to
                    get rid of many things; to go to himself is especially to get rid of the New
                    Humour, yet to stand at its unprophetic source. And we love such authors as
                    Dickens and this American for their own sake, refusing to be aware of their
                    corrupt following. We would make haste to ignore their posterity, and to assure
                    them that we absolve them from any fault of theirs in the bastardy.
                Humour is the most conspicuous thing in the world, which must explain why the
                    little humour in Elsie Venner and the Breakfast Table
                    series is not only the first thing the critic touches but the thing whereby he
                    relates this author to his following and to the
                    world. The young man John, Colonel Sprowle with his ‘social entertainment,’ the
                    Landlady and her daughter, and the Poor Relation, almost make up the sum of the
                    comic personages, and fifty per cent. of the things they say—no more—are good
                    enough to remain after the bloom of their vulgarity has worn off. But that half
                    is excellent, keen, jolly, temperate; and because of that temperance—the most
                    stimulating and fecundating of qualities—the humour of it has set the literature
                    of a hemisphere to the tune of mirth. Like Mr. Lowell's it was humour in
                    dialect—not Irish dialect nor negro, but American; and it made New England aware
                    of her comedy. Until then she had felt within herself that there was nothing to
                    laugh at. ‘Nature is in earnest when she makes a woman,’ says Dr. Oliver Wendell
                    Holmes. Rather, she takes herself seriously when she makes the average spiritual
                    woman: as seriously as that woman takes herself when she makes a novel. And in a
                    like mood Nature made New England and endowed her with purpose, with mortuary
                    frivolities, with long views, with energetic provincialism.
                If we remember best The Wonderful One-
                        Hoss Shay, we do so in spite of the religious and pathetic motive of
                    the greater part of Dr. Holmes's work, and of his fancy, which should be at
                    least as conspicuous as his humour. It is fancy rather than imagination; but it
                    is more perfect, more definite, more fit, than the larger art of imagery, which
                    is apt to be vague, because it is intellectual and adult. No grown man makes
                    quite so definite mental images as does a child; when the mind ages it thinks
                    stronger thoughts in vaguer pictures. The young mind of Dr. Holmes has less
                    intellectual imagination than intelligent fancy. For example: ‘If you ever saw a
                    crow with a king-bird after him, you will get an image of a dull speaker and a
                    lively listener. The bird in sable plumage flaps heavily along his
                    straightforward course, while the other sails round him, over him, under him,
                    leaves him, comes back again, tweaks out a black feather, shoots away once more,
                    never losing sight of him, and finally reaches the crow's perch at the same time
                    the crow does;’ but the comparison goes on after this at needless length, with
                    explanations. Again: ‘That blessed clairvoyance which sees into things without
                    opening them: that glorious licence which,
                    having shut the door and driven the reporter from the keyhole, calls upon Truth,
                    majestic Virgin! to get off from her pedestal and drop her academic
                        poses.’ And this, of the Landlady: ‘She told me her story once;
                    it was as if a grain that had been ground and bolted had tried to individualise
                    itself by a special narrative.’ ‘The riotous tumult of a laugh, which, I take
                    it, is the mob-law of the features.’ ‘Think of the Old World—that part of it
                    which is the seat of ancient civilisation! ... A man cannot help marching in
                    step with his kind in the rear of such a procession.’ ‘Young folk look on a face
                    as a unit; children who go to school with any given little John Smith see in his
                    name a distinctive appellation.’ And that exquisitely sensitive passage on the
                    nervous outward movement and the inward tranquillity of the woods. Such things
                    are the best this good author gives us, whether they go gay with metaphor, or be
                    bare thoughts shapely with their own truth.
                Part of the charm of Dr. Holmes's comment on life, and of the phrase wherein he
                    secures it, arises from his singular vigilance. He has unpreoccupied and alert
                        eyes. Strangely enough, by the way, this
                    watchfulness is for once as much at fault as would be the slovenly observation
                    of an ordinary man, in the description of a horse's gallop, ‘skimming along
                    within a yard of the ground.’ Who shall trust a man's nimble eyes after this,
                    when habit and credulity have taught him? Not an inch nearer the ground goes the
                    horse of fact at a gallop than at a walk. But Dr. Holmes's vigilance helps him
                    to somewhat squalid purpose in his studies of New England inland life. Much
                    careful literature besides has been spent, after the example of Elsie
                        Venner and the Autocrat, upon the cottage worldliness,
                    the routine of abundant and common comforts achieved by a distressing household
                    industry, the shrillness, the unrest, the best-parlour emulation, the ungraceful
                    vanity, of Americans of the country-side and the country-town; upon their
                    affections made vulgar by undemonstrativeness, and their consciences made vulgar
                    by demonstrativeness—their kindness by reticence, and their religion by
                    candour.
                As for the question of heredity and of individual responsibility which Dr. Oliver
                    Wendell Holmes proposes in Elsie Venner, it is strange that a man
                    whom it had sincerely disquieted should present
                    it—not in its own insolubility but—in caricature. As though the secrets of the
                    inherited body and soul needed to be heightened by a bit of burlesque
                    physiology! It is in spite of our protest against the invention of Elsie's
                    horrible plight—a conception and invention which Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes
                    should feel to be essentially frivolous—that the serpent-maiden moves us deeply
                    by her last ‘Good night,’ and by the gentle phrase that tells us ‘Elsie wept.’
                    But now, if Dr. Holmes shall succeed in proposing the question of separate
                    responsibility so as to convince every civilised mind of his doubts, there will
                    be curiously little change wrought thereby in the discipline of the world. For
                    Dr. Holmes incidentally lets us know that he cherishes and values the instinct
                    of intolerance and destructiveness in presence of the cruel, the self-loving,
                    and the false. Negation of separate moral responsibility, when that negation is
                    tempered by a working instinct of intolerance and destructiveness, will deal
                    with the felon, after all, very much in the manner achieved by the present
                    prevalent judicialness, unscientific though it may be. And to say this is to
                    confess that Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has
                    worked, through a number of books, to futile purpose. His books are justified by
                    something quite apart from his purpose.
            
            
            
                JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL
                THE United States have produced authors not a few; among some names not
                    the most famous, perhaps, on the popular tongue, are two or three names of their
                    poets; but they have hardly given to the world more than one man of
                    letters—judicious, judicial, disinterested, patient, happy, temperate,
                    delighted. The colonial days, with the ‘painful’ divines who brought the parish
                    into the wilderness; the experimental period of ambition and attempts at a
                    literature that should be young as the soil and much younger than the race; the
                    civil-war years, with a literature that matched the self-conscious and inexpert
                    heroism of the army;—none of these periods of the national life could fitly be
                    represented by a man of letters. And though James Russell Lowell was the
                    contemporary of the ‘transcendentalists,’ and a man of middle age when the South seceded, and though indeed his fame as
                    a Yankee humourist is to be discerned through the smoke and the dust, through
                    the gravity and the burlesque, of the war, clear upon the other side, yet he was
                    virtually the child of national leisure, of moderation and education, an
                    American of the seventies and onwards. He represented the little-recognised fact
                    that in ripeness, not in rawness, consists the excellence of Americans—an
                    excellence they must be content to share with contemporary nations, however much
                    it may cost them to abandon we know not what bounding ambitions which they have
                    never succeeded in definitely describing in words. Mr. Lowell was a refutation
                    of the fallacy that an American can never be American enough. He ranked with the
                    students and the critics among all nations, and nothing marks his transatlantic
                    conditions except, perhaps, that his scholarliness is a little anxious and would
                    not seem so; he enriches his phrases busily, and yet would seem composed; he
                    makes his allusions tread closely one upon another, and there is an assumed
                    carelessness, and an ill-concealed vigilance, as to the effect their number and
                    their erudition will produce upon the reader.
                    The American sensitiveness takes with him that pleasantest of forms; his style
                    confesses more than he thinks of the loveable weakness of national vanity, and
                    asks of the stranger now and again, ‘Well, what do you think of my country?’
                Declining, as I do, to separate style in expression from style in the thought
                    that informs it—for they who make such a separation can hardly know that style
                    should be in the very conception of a phrase, in its antenatal history, else the
                    word is neither choice nor authentic—I recognise in Mr. Lowell, as a prose
                    author, a sense of proportion and a delicacy of selection not surpassed in the
                    critical work of this critical century. Those small volumes, Among My
                        Books and My Study Windows, are all pure literature. A
                    fault in criticism is the rarest thing in them. I call none to mind except the
                    strange judgment on Dr. Johnson: ‘Our present concern with the Saxons is chiefly
                    a literary one.... Take Dr. Johnson as an instance. The Saxon, as it appears to
                    me, has never shown any capacity for art,’ and so forth. One wonders how Lowell
                    read the passage on Iona, and the letter to Lord Chesterfield, and the Preface
                        to the Dictionary without conviction of the
                    great English writer's supreme art—art that declares itself and would not be
                    hidden. But take the essay on Pope, that on Chaucer, and that on one Percival, a
                    writer of American verse of whom English readers are not aware, and they prove
                    Lowell to have been as clear in judging as he was exquisite in sentencing. His
                    essay ‘On a Certain Condescension in Foreigners’ is famous, but an equal fame is
                    due to ‘My Garden Acquaintance’ and ‘A Good Word for Winter.’ His talk about the
                    weather is so full of wit that one wonders how prattlers at a loss for a topic
                    dare attempt one so rich. The birds that nest in his syringas seem to be not his
                    pensioners only, but his parishioners, so charmingly local, so intent upon his
                    chronicle does he become when he is minded to play White of Selborne with a
                    smile. And all the while it is the word that he is intent upon. You may trace
                    his reading by some fine word that has not escaped him, but has been garnered
                    for use when his fan has been quick to purge away the chaff of commonplace. He
                    is thus fastidious and alert in many languages. You wonder at the delicacy of
                    the sense whereby he perceives a choice rhyme
                    in the Anglo-Norman of Marie de France or a clang of arms in the brief verse of
                    Peire de Bergerac, or touches sensitively a word whereby Dante has transcended
                    something sweet in Bernard de Ventadour, or Virgil somewhat noble in Homer. In
                    his own use, and within his own English, he has the abstinence and the freshness
                    of intention that keep every word new for the day's work. He gave to the
                    language, and did not take from it; it gained by him, and lost not. There are
                    writers of English now at work who almost convince us of their greatness until
                    we convict them on that charge: they have succeeded at an unpardonable cost;
                    they are glorified, but they have beggared the phrases they leave behind
                    them.
                Nevertheless Lowell was no poet. To accept his verse as a poet's would be to
                    confess a lack of instinct, and there is no more grievous lack in a lover of
                    poetry. Reason, we grant, makes for the full acceptance of his poems, and
                    perhaps so judicial a mind as his may be forgiven for having trusted to reason
                    and to criticism. His trust was justified—if such justification avails—by the
                    admiration of fairly educated people who apparently hold him to have been a poet first, a humourist in the
                    second place, and an essayist incidentally. It is hard to believe that he failed
                    in instinct about himself. More probably he was content to forego it when he
                    found the ode, the lyric, and the narrative verse all so willing. They made no
                    difficulty, and he made none; why then are we reluctant to acknowledge the
                    manifest stateliness of this verse and the evident grace of that, and the fine
                    thought finely worded? Such reluctance justifies itself. Nor would I attempt to
                    back it by the cheap sanctions of prophecy. Nay, it is quite possible that
                    Lowell's poems may live; I have no commands for futurity. Enough that he
                    enriched the present with the example of a scholarly, linguistic, verbal love of
                    literature, with a studiousness full of heart.
            
            
            
                DOMUS ANGUSTA
                THE narrow house is a small human nature compelled to a large human
                    destiny, charged with a fate too great, a history too various, for its slight
                    capacities. Men have commonly complained of fate; but their complaints have been
                    of the smallness, not of the greatness, of the human lot. A disproportion—all in
                    favour of man—between man and his destiny is one of the things to be taken for
                    granted in literature: so frequent and so easy is the utterance of the habitual
                    lamentation as to the trouble of a ‘vain capacity,’ so well explained has it
                    ever been. 
                        ‘Thou hast not half the power to do me harm
                        That I have to be hurt,’
                     discontented man seems to cry to Heaven, taking the words of the brave
                    Emilia. But inarticulate has been the voice within the narrow house. Obviously it never had its poet. Little
                    elocution is there, little argument or definition, little explicitness. And yet
                    for every vain capacity we may assuredly count a thousand vain destinies, for
                    every liberal nature a thousand liberal fates. It is the trouble of the wide
                    house we hear of, clamorous of its disappointments and desires. The narrow house
                    has no echoes; yet its pathetic shortcoming might well move pity. On that strait
                    stage is acted a generous tragedy; to that inadequate soul is intrusted an
                    enormous sorrow; a tempest of movement makes its home within that slender
                    nature; and heroic happiness seeks that timorous heart.
                We may, indeed, in part know the narrow house by its inarticulateness—not,
                    certainly, its fewness of words, but its inadequacy and imprecision of speech.
                    For, doubtless, right language enlarges the soul as no other power or influence
                    may do. Who, for instance, but trusts more nobly for knowing the full word of
                    his confidence? Who but loves more penetratingly for possessing the ultimate
                    syllable of his tenderness? There is a ‘pledging of the word,’ in another sense
                        than the ordinary sense of troth and
                    promise. The poet pledges his word, his sentence, his verse, and finds therein a
                    peculiar sanction. And I suppose that even physical pain takes on an edge when
                    it not only enforces a pang but whispers a phrase. Consciousness and the word
                    are almost as closely united as thought and the word. Almost—not quite; in spite
                    of its inexpressive speech, the narrow house is aware and sensitive beyond, as
                    it were, its poor power.
                But as to the whole disparity between the destiny and the nature, we know it to
                    be general. Life is great that is trivially transmitted; love is great that is
                    vulgarly experienced. Death, too, is a heroic virtue; and to the keeping of us
                    all is death committed: death, submissive in the indocile, modest in the
                    fatuous, several in the vulgar, secret in the familiar. It is destructive
                    because it not only closes but contradicts life. Unlikely people die. The one
                    certain thing, it is also the one improbable. A dreadful paradox is perhaps
                    wrought upon a little nature that is incapable of death and yet is constrained
                    to die. That is a true destruction, and the thought of it is obscure.
                
                Happy literature corrects all this disproportion by its immortal pause. It does
                    not bid us follow man or woman to an illogical conclusion. Mrs. Micawber never
                    does desert Mr. Micawber. Considering her mental powers, by the way, an
                    illogical conclusion for her would be manifestly inappropriate. Shakespeare,
                    indeed, having seen a life whole, sees it to an end: sees it out, and Falstaff
                    dies. More than Promethean was the audacity that, having kindled, quenched that
                    spark. But otherwise the grotesque man in literature is immortal, and with
                    something more significant than the immortality awarded to him in the sayings of
                    rhetoric; he is predurable because he is not completed. His humours are
                    strangely matched with perpetuity. But, indeed, he is not worthy to die; for
                    there is something graver than to be immortal, and that is to be mortal. I
                    protest I do not laugh at man or woman in the world. I thank my fellow-mortals
                    for their wit, and also for the kind of joke that the French so pleasantly call
                        une joyeuseté; these are to smile at. But
                    the gay injustice of laughter is between me and the book.
                That narrow house—there is sometimes a message
                    from its living windows. Its bewilderment, its reluctance, its defect, show by
                    moments from eyes that are apt to express none but common things. There are
                    allusions unawares, involuntary appeals, in those brief glances. Far from me and
                    from my friends be the misfortune of meeting such looks in reply to pain of our
                    inflicting. To be clever and sensitive and to hurt the foolish and the
                    stolid—wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world? Not I, by this heavenly
                    light.
            
            
            
                REJECTION
                SIMPLICITY is not virginal in the modern world. She has a penitential or
                    a vidual singleness. We can conceive an antique world in which life, art, and
                    letters were simple because of the absence of many things; for us now they can
                    be simple only because of our rejection of many things. We are constrained to
                    such a vigilance as will not let even a master's work pass unfanned and
                    unpurged. Even among his phrases one shall be taken and the other left. For he
                    may unawares have allowed the habitualness that besets this multitudinous life
                    to take the pen from his hand and to write for him a page or a word; and
                    habitualness compels our refusals. Or he may have allowed the easy impulse of
                    exaggeration to force a sentence which the mere truth, sensitively and
                    powerfully pausing, would well have become. Exaggeration has played a part of its own in human history. By
                    depreciating our language it has stimulated change, and has kept the circulating
                    word in exercise. Our rejection must be alert and expert to overtake
                    exaggeration and arrest it. It makes us shrewder than we wish to be. And,
                    indeed, the whole endless action of refusal shortens the life we could desire to
                    live. Much of our resolution is used up in the repeated mental gesture of
                    adverse decision. Our tacit and implicit distaste is made explicit, who shall
                    say with what loss to our treasury of quietness? We are defrauded of our
                    interior ignorance, which should be a place of peace. We are forced to confess
                    more articulately than befits our convention with ourselves. We are hurried out
                    of our reluctances. We are made too much aware. Nay, more: we are tempted to the
                    outward activity of destruction; reviewing becomes almost inevitable. As for the
                    spiritual life—O weary, weary act of refusal! O waste but necessary hours, vigil
                    and wakefulness of fear! ‘We live by admiration’ only a shortened life who live
                    so much in the iteration of rejection and repulse. And in the very touch of joy
                    there hides I know not what ultimate denial; if
                    not on one side, on the other. If joy is given to us without reserve, not so do
                    we give ourselves to joy. We withhold, we close. Having denied many things that
                    have approached us, we deny ourselves to many things. Thus does il gran rifiuto divide and rule our world.
                Simplicity is worth the sacrifice; but all is not sacrifice. Rejection has its
                    pleasures, the more secret the more unmeasured. When we garnish a house we
                    refuse more furniture, and furniture more various, than might haunt the dreams
                    of decorators. There is no limit to our rejections. And the unconsciousness of
                    the decorators is in itself a cause of pleasure to a mind generous, forbearing,
                    and delicate. When we dress, no fancy may count the things we will none of. When
                    we write, what hinders that we should refrain from Style past reckoning? When we
                    marry—. Moreover, if simplicity is no longer set in a world having the great and
                    beautiful quality of fewness, we can provide an equally fair setting in the
                    quality of refinement. And refinement is not to be achieved but by rejection.
                    One who suggests to me that refinement is apt to be a mere negative has offered up a singular blunder in honour of
                    robustiousness. Refinement is not negative, because it must be compassed by many
                    negations. It is a thing of price as well as of value; it demands immolations,
                    it exacts experience. No slight or easy charge, then, is committed to such of us
                    as, having apprehension of these things, fulfil the office of exclusion. Never
                    before was a time when derogation was always so near, a daily danger, or when
                    the reward of resisting it was so great. The simplicity of literature, more
                    sensitive, more threatened, and more important than other simplicities, needs a
                    guard of honour, who shall never relax the good will nor lose the good heart of
                    their intolerance.
            
            
            
                THE LESSON OF LANDSCAPE
                THE landscape, like our literature, is apt to grow and to get itself
                    formed under too luxurious ideals. This is the evil work of that little
                        more which makes its insensible but persistent additions to styles,
                    to the arts, to the ornaments of life—to nature, when unluckily man becomes too
                    explicitly conscious of her beauty, and too deliberate in his arrangement of it.
                    The landscape has need of moderation, of that fast-disappearing grace of
                    unconsciousness, and, in short, of a return towards the ascetic temper. The
                    English way of landowning, above all, has made for luxury. Naturally the country
                    is fat. The trees are thick and round—a world of leaves; the hills are round;
                    the forms are all blunt; and the grass is so deep as to have almost the effect
                    of snow in smoothing off all points and curving away all abruptness. 
                        Eng-
                        England
                     land is almost as blunt as a
                    machine-made moulding or a piece of Early Victorian cast-iron work. And on all
                    this we have, of set purpose, improved by our invention of the country park.
                    There all is curves and masses. A little more is added to the greenness and the
                    softness of the forest glade, and for increase of ornament the fat land is
                    devoted to idleness. Not a tree that is not impenetrable, inarticulate. Thick
                    soil below and thick growth above cover up all the bones of the land, which in
                    more delicate countries show brows and hollows resembling those of a fine face
                    after mental experience. By a very intelligible paradox, it is only in a
                    landscape made up for beauty that beauty is so ill achieved. Much beauty there
                    must needs be where there are vegetation and the seasons. But even the seasons,
                    in park scenery, are marred by the little too much: too complete a
                    winter, too emphatic a spring, an ostentatious summer, an autumn too
                    demonstrative.
                ‘Seek to have less rather than more.’ It is a counsel of perfection in The
                        Imitation of Christ. And here, undoubtedly, is the secret of all that
                    is virile and classic in the art of man, and of all in nature that is most 
                        harmoni-
                        harmonious
                     ous with that art. Moreover, this is
                    the secret of Italy. How little do the tourists and the poets grasp this latter
                    truth, by the way—and the artists! The legend of Italy is to be gorgeous, and
                    they have her legend by rote. But Italy is slim and all articulate; her most
                    characteristic trees are those that are distinct and distinguished, with lines
                    that suggest the etching-point rather than a brush loaded with paint. Cypresses
                    shaped like flames, tall pines with the abrupt flatness of their tops, thin
                    canes in the brakes, sharp aloes by the road-side, and olives with the delicate
                    acuteness of the leaf—these make keen lines of slender vegetation. And they own
                    the seasons by a gentle confession. Rather than be overpowered by the clamorous
                    proclamation of summer in the English woods, we would follow June to this
                    subtler South: even to the Campagna, where the cycle of the seasons passes
                    within such narrow limitations that insensitive eyes scarcely recognise it. In
                    early spring there is a fresher touch of green on all the spaces of grass, the
                    distance grows less mellow and more radiant; by the coming of May the green has
                    been imperceptibly dimmed again; it blushes with the mingled colours of minute and numberless flowers—a dust of
                    flowers, in lines longer than those of ocean billows. This is the desert
                    blossoming like a rose: not the obvious rose of gardens, but the multitudinous
                    and various flower that gathers once in the year in every hand's-breadth of the
                    wilderness. When June comes the sun has burnt all to leagues of harmonious seed,
                    coloured with a hint of the colour of harvest, which is gradually changed to the
                    lighter harmonies of winter. All this fine chromatic scale passes within such
                    modest boundaries that it is accused as a monotony. But those who find its
                    modesty delightful may have a still more delicate pleasure in the blooming and
                    blossoming of the sea. The passing from the winter blue to the summer blue, from
                    the cold colour to the colour that has in it the fire of the sun, the kindling
                    of the sapphire of the Mediterranean—the significance of these sea-seasons, so
                    far from the pasture and the harvest, is imperceptible to ordinary senses, as
                    appears from the fact that so few stay to see it all fulfilled. And if the
                    tourist stayed, he would no doubt violate all that is lovely and moderate by the
                    insistence of his descriptions. He would find adjectives for the blue sea,
                        but probably he would refuse to search for
                    words for the white. A white Mediterranean is not in the legend. Nevertheless it
                    blooms, now and then, pale as an opal; the white sea is the flower of the
                    breathless midsummer. And in its clear, silent waters, a few days, in the
                    culmination of the heat, bring forth translucent living creatures, many-shaped
                    jelly-fish, coloured like mother-of-pearl.
                But without going so far from the landscape of daily life, it is in agricultural
                    Italy that the little less makes so undesignedly, and as it were so
                    inevitably, for beauty. The country that is formed for use and purpose only is
                    immeasurably the loveliest. What a lesson in literature! How feelingly it
                    persuades us that all except a very little of the ornament of letters and of
                    life makes the dulness of the world. The tenderness of colour, the beauty of
                    series and perspective, and the variety of surface, produced by the small
                    culture of vegetables, are among the charms that come unsought, and that are not
                    to be found by seeking—are never to be achieved if they are sought for their own
                    sake. And another of the delights of the useful laborious land is its vitality.
                    The soil may be thin and dry, but man's life is
                    added to its own. He has embanked the hill to make little platforms for the
                    growth of wheat in the light shadows of olive leaves. Thanks to the métayer
                    land-tenure, man's heart, as well as his strength, is given to the ground, with
                    his hope and his honour. Louis Blanc's ‘point of honour of industry’ is a
                    conscious impulse—it is not too much to say—with most of the Tuscan contadini;
                    but as each effort they make for their master they make also for the bread of
                    their children, it is no wonder that the land they cultivate has a look of life.
                    But in all colour, in all luxury, and in all that gives material for picturesque
                    English, this lovely scenery for food and wine and raiment has that little
                        less to which we desire to recall a rhetorical world.
            
            
            
                MR. COVENTRY PATMORE'S ODES
                To most of the great poets no greater praise can be given than praise of their
                    imagery. Imagery is the natural language of their poetry. Without a parable she
                    hardly speaks. But undoubtedly there is now and then a poet who touches the
                    thing, not its likeness, too vitally, too sensitively, for even such a pause as
                    the verse makes for love of the beautiful image. Those rare moments are simple,
                    and their simplicity makes one of the reader's keenest experiences. Other
                    simplicities may be achieved by lesser art, but this is transcendent simplicity.
                    There is nothing in the world more costly. It vouches for the beauty which it
                    transcends; it answer for the riches it forbears; it implies the art which it
                    fulfils. All abundance ministers to it, though it is so single. And here we get
                    the sacrificial quality which is the well-kept
                    secret of art at this perfection. All the faculties of the poet are used for
                    preparing this naked greatness—are used and fruitfully spent and shed. The
                    loveliness that stands and waits on the simplicity of certain of Mr. Coventry
                    Patmore's Odes, the fervours and splendours that are there, only to be put to
                    silence—to silence of a kind that would be impossible were they less
                    glorious—are testimonies to the difference between sacrifice and waste.
                But does it seem less than reasonable to begin a review of a poet's work with
                    praise of an infrequent mood? Infrequent such a mood must needs be, yet it is in
                    a profound sense characteristic. To have attained it once or twice is to have
                    proved such gift and grace as a true history of literature would show to be
                    above price, even gauged by the rude measure of rarity. Transcendent simplicity
                    could not possibly be habitual. Man lives within garments and veils, and art is
                    chiefly concerned with making mysteries of these for the loveliness of his life;
                    when they are rent asunder it is impossible not to be aware that an overwhelming
                    human emotion has been in action. Thus Departure, If I Were
                        Dead, A Farewell,
                        Eurydice, The Toys, St. Valentine's
                        Day—though here there is in the exquisite imaginative play a
                    mitigation of the bare vitality of feeling—group themselves apart as the
                    innermost of the poet's achievements.
                Second to these come the Odes that have splendid thought in great images, and
                    display—rather than, as do the poems first glanced at, betray—the beauties of
                    poetic art. Emotion is here, too, and in shocks and throes, never frantic when
                    almost intolerable. It is mortal pathos. If any other poet has filled a cup with
                    a draught so unalloyed, we do not know it. Love and sorrow are pure in The
                        Unknown Eros; and its author has not refused even the cup of terror.
                    Against love often, against sorrow nearly always, against fear always, men of
                    sensibility instantaneously guard the quick of their hearts. It is only the
                    approach of the pang that they will endure; from the pang itself, dividing soul
                    and spirit, a man who is conscious of a profound capacity for passion defends
                    himself in the twinkling of an eye. But through nearly the whole of Coventry
                    Patmore's poetry there is an endurance of the mortal touch. Nay, more, he has
                    the endurance of the immortal touch. That is,
                    his capacity for all the things that men elude for their greatness is more than
                    the capacity of other men. He endures therefore what they could but will not
                    endure and, besides this, degrees that they cannot apprehend. Thus, to have
                    studied The Unknown Eros is to have had a certain experience—at
                    least the impassioned experience of a compassion; but it is also to have
                    recognised a soul beyond our compassion.
                What some of the Odes have to sing of, their author does not insist upon our
                    knowing. He leaves more liberty for a well-intentioned reader's error than makes
                    for peace and recollection of mind in reading. That the general purpose of the
                    poems is obscure is inevitable. It has the obscurity of profound clear waters.
                    What the poet chiefly secures to us is the understanding that love and its
                    bonds, its bestowal and reception, does but rehearse the action of the union of
                    God with humanity—that there is no essential man save Christ, and no essential
                    woman except the soul of mankind. When the singer of a Song of Songs seems to
                    borrow the phrase of human love, it is rather that human love had first borrowed
                    the truths of the love of God. The thought
                    grows gay in the three Psyche odes, or attempts a gaiety—the reader
                    at least being somewhat reluctant. How is it? Mr. Coventry Patmore's play more
                    often than not wins you to but a slow participation. Perhaps because some thrust
                    of his has left you still tremulous.
                But the inequality of equal lovers, sung in these Odes with a Divine allusion, is
                    a most familiar truth. Love that is passionate has much of the impulse of
                    gravitation—gravitation that is not falling, as there is no downfall in the
                    precipitation of the sidereal skies. The love of the great for the small is the
                    passionate love; the upward love hesitates and is fugitive. St. Francis Xavier
                    asked that the day of his ecstasy might be shortened; Imogen, the wife of all
                    poetry, ‘prays forbearance;’ the child is ‘fretted with sallies of his mother's
                    kisses.’ It might be drawing an image too insistently to call this a centrifugal
                    impulse.
                The art that utters an intellectual action so courageous, an emotion so
                    authentic, as that of Mr. Coventry Patmore's poetry, cannot be otherwise than
                    consummate. Often the word has a fulness of significance that gives the reader a shock of appreciation. This is always so
                    in those simplest odes which we have taken as the heart of the author's work.
                    Without such wonderful rightness, simplicity of course is impossible. Nor is
                    that beautiful precision less in passages of description, such as the landscape
                    lines in Amelia and elsewhere. The words are used to the uttermost
                    yet with composure. And a certain justness of utterance increases the
                    provocation of what we take leave to call unjust thought in the few poems that
                    proclaim an intemperate scorn—political, social, literary. The poems are but two
                    or three; they are to be known by their subjects—we might as well do something
                    to justify their scorn by using the most modern of adjectives—and call them
                    topical. Here assuredly there is no composure. Never before did superiority bear
                    itself with so little of its proper, signal, and peculiar grace—reluctance.
                If Mr. Patmore really intends that his Odes shall be read with minim, or crochet,
                    or quaver rests, to fill up a measure of beaten time, we are free to hold that
                    he rather arbitrarily applies to liberal verse the laws of verse set for
                    use—cradle verse and march- marking verse (we
                    are, of course, not considering verse set to music, and thus compelled into the
                    musical time). Liberal verse, dramatic, narrative, meditative, can surely be
                    bound by no time measures—if for no other reason, for this: that to prescribe
                    pauses is also to forbid any pauses unprescribed. Granting, however, his
                    principle of catalexis, we still doubt whether the irregular metre of The
                        Unknown Eros is happily used except for the large sweep of the flight
                    of the Ode more properly so called. Lycidas, the Mrs. Anne
                        Killigrew, the Intimations, and Emerson's
                        Threnody, considered merely for their versification, fulfil
                    their laws so perfectly that they certainly move without checks as without
                    haste. So with the graver Odes—much in the majority—of Mr. Coventry Patmore's
                    series. A more lovely dignity of extension and restriction, a more touching
                    sweetness of simple and frequent rhyme, a truer impetus of pulse and impulse,
                    English verse could hardly yield than are to be found in his versification. And
                    what movement of words has ever expressed flight, distance, mystery, and
                    wonderful approach, as they are expressed in a celestial line—the eighth in the
                    ode To the Unknown Eros? When we
                    are sensible of a metrical check it is in this way: To the English ear the
                    heroic line is the unit of metre, and when two lines of various length
                    undesignedly add together to form a heroic line, they have to be separated with
                    something of a jerk. And this adding—as, for instance, of a line of four
                    syllables preceding or following one of six—occurs now and then, and even in
                    such a masterly measure of music as A Farewell It is as when a sail
                    suddenly flaps windless in the fetching about of a boat. In The Angel in
                        the House, and other earlier poems, Mr. Coventry Patmore used the
                    octosyllabic stanza perfectly, inasmuch as he never left it either heavily or
                    thinly packed. Moreover those first poems had a composure which was the prelude
                    to the peace of the Odes. And even in his slightest work he proves himself the
                    master—that is, the owner—of words that, owned by him, are unprofaned, are as
                    though they had never been profaned; the capturer of an art so quick and close
                    that it is the voice less of a poet than of the very Muse.
            
            
            
                INNOCENCE AND EXPERIENCE
                I SHALL not ask the commentators whether Blake used these two words in
                    union or in antithesis. They assuredly have an inseverable union in the art of
                    literature. The songs of Innocence and Experience are for each poet the songs of
                    his own separate heart and life; but to take the cumulative experiences of other
                    men, and to use these in place of the virginal fruit of thought—whereas one
                    would hardly consent to take them for ordering even the most habitual of daily
                    affairs—is to forego Innocence and Experience at once and together. Obviously,
                    Experience can be nothing except personal and separate; and Innocence of a
                    singularly solitary quality is his who does not dip his hands into other men's
                    histories, and does not give to his own word the common sanction of other men's
                    summaries and 
                        conclu-
                        conclusions
                     sions. Therefore I bind Innocence and
                    Experience in one, and take them as a sign of the necessary and noble isolation
                    of man from man—of his uniqueness. But if I had a mind to forego that manner of
                    personal separateness, and to use the things of others, I think I would rather
                    appropriate their future than their past. Let me put on their hopes, and the
                    colours of their confidence, if I must borrow. Not that I would burden my
                    prophetic soul with unjustified ambitions; but even this would be more tolerable
                    than to load my memory with an unjustifiable history.
                And yet how differently do the writers of a certain kind of love-poetry consider
                    this matter. These are the love-poets who have no reluctance in adopting the
                    past of a multitude of people to whom they have not even been introduced. Their
                    verse is full of ready-made memories, various, numerous, and cruel. No single
                    life—supposing it to be a liberal life concerned with something besides
                    sex—could quite suffice for so much experience, so much disillusion, so much
                        déception. To achieve that tone in its
                    fulness it is necessary to take for one's own the præterita (say) of Alfred de Musset and of the men who helped him—not to live but—to have lived; it is
                    necessary to have lived much more than any man lives, and to make a common hoard
                    of erotic remembrances with all kinds of poets.
                As the Franciscans wear each other's old habits, and one Friar goes about darned
                    because of another's rending, so the poet of a certain order grows cynical for
                    the sake of many poets' old loves. Not otherwise will the resultant verse
                    succeed in implying so much—or rather so many, in the feminine plural. The man
                    of very sensitive individuality might hesitate at the adoption. The Franciscan
                    is understood to have a fastidiousness and to overcome it. But these poets so
                    triumph over their repugnance that it does not appear. And yet, if choice were,
                    one might wish rather to make use of one's fellowmen's old shoes than put their
                    old secrets to use, and dress one's art in a motley of past passions. Moreover,
                    to utilise the mental experience of many is inevitably to use their verse and
                    phrase. For the rest, all the traits of this love-poetry are familiar enough.
                    One of them is the absence of the word of promise and pledge, the loss of the
                    earliest and simplest of the impulses of love: which is the vow. ‘Till death!’ ‘For ever!’ are cries too simple
                    and too natural to be commonplace, and in their denial there is the least
                    tolerable of banalities—that of other men's disillusions.
                Perfect personal distinctness of Experience would be in literature a delicate
                    Innocence. Not a passage of cheapness, of greed, of assumption, of sloth, or of
                    any such sins in the work of him whose love-poetry were thus true, and whose
                        pudeur of personality thus simple and
                    inviolate. This is the private man, in other words the gentleman, who will
                    neither love nor remember in public.
            
            
            
                PENULTIMATE CARICATURE
                THERE has been no denunciation, and perhaps even no recognition, of a
                    certain social immorality in the caricature of the mid-century and earlier.
                    Literary and pictorial alike, it had for its notice the vulgarising of the
                    married woman. No one now would read Douglas Jerrold for pleasure, but it is
                    worth while to turn up that humourist's serial, Mrs. Caudle's Curtain
                        Lectures, which were presumably considered good comic reading in the
                    Punch of that time, and to make acquaintance with a certain
                    ideal of the grotesque. Obviously to make a serious comment on anything which
                    others consider or have considered humorous is to put one's-self at a
                    disadvantage. He who sees the joke holds himself somewhat the superior of the
                    man who would see it, such as it is, if he thought it worth his eyesight. The
                        last- named has to bear the least
                    tolerable of modern reproaches; but he need not always care. Now to turn over
                    Douglas Jerrold's monologues is to find that people in the mid-century took
                    their mirth principally from the life of the arrière
                        boutique. On that shabby stage was enacted the comedy of
                    literature. Therefore we must take something of the vulgarity of Jerrold as a
                    circumstance of the social ranks wherein he delighted. But the essential
                    vulgarity is that of the woman. There is in some old Punch volume a
                    drawing by Leech—whom one is weary of hearing named the gentle, the
                    refined—where the work of the artist has vied with the spirit of the
                    letter-press. Douglas Jerrold treats of the woman's jealousy, Leech of her
                    stays. They lie on a chair by the bed, beyond description gross. And page by
                    page the woman is derided, with an unfailing enjoyment of her foolish ugliness
                    of person, of manners, and of language. In that time there was, moreover, one
                    great humourist; he bore his part willingly in vulgarising the woman; and the
                    part that fell to him was the vulgarising of the act of maternity. Woman
                    spiteful, woman suing man at the law for evading her fatuous 
                        com-
                        companionship
                     panionship, woman incoherent, woman
                    abandoned without restraint to violence and temper, woman feigning
                    sensibility—in none of these ignominies is woman so common, foul, and foolish
                    for Dickens as she is in child-bearing.
                I named Leech but now. He was, in all things essential, Dickens's contemporary.
                    And accordingly the married woman and her child are humiliated by his pencil;
                    not grossly, but commonly. For him she is moderately and dully ridiculous. What
                    delights him as humorous is that her husband—himself wearisome enough to die
                    of—is weary of her, finds the time long, and tries to escape her. It amuses him
                    that she should furtively spend money over her own dowdiness, to the annoyance
                    of her husband, and that her husband should have no desire to adorn her, and
                    that her mother should be intolerable. It pleases him that her baby, with
                    enormous cheeks and a hideous rosette in its hat—a burlesque baby—should be a
                    grotesque object of her love, for that too makes subtly for her abasement.
                    Charles Keene, again—another contemporary, though he lived into a later and
                    different time. He saw little else than common forms of human
                    ignominy—indignities of civic physique, of
                    stupid prosperity, of dress, of bearing. He transmits these things in greater
                    proportion than he found them—whether for love of the humour of them, or by a
                    kind of inverted disgust that is as eager as delight—one is not sure which is
                    the impulse. The grossness of the vulgarities is rendered with a completeness
                    that goes far to convince us of a certain sensitiveness of apprehension in the
                    designer; and then again we get convinced that real apprehension—real
                    apprehensiveness—would not have insisted upon such things, could not have lived
                    with them through almost a whole career. There is one drawing in the
                        Punch of years ago, in which Charles Keene achieved the
                    nastiest thing possible to even the invention of that day. A drunken citizen, in
                    the usual broadcloth, has gone to bed, fully dressed, with his boots on and his
                    umbrella open, and the joke lies in the surprise awaiting, when she awakes, the
                    wife asleep at his side in a night-cap. Every one who knows Keene's work can
                    imagine how the huge well-fed figure was drawn, and how the coat wrinkled across
                    the back, and how the bourgeois whiskers were indicated. This obscene drawing is
                    matched by many equally odious. Abject
                    domesticity, ignominies of married life, of middle-age, of money-making; the old
                    common jape against the mother-in-law; ill-dressed men with whisky—ill-dressed
                    women with tempers; everything that is underbred and decivilised; abominable
                    weddings: in one drawing a bridegroom with shambling sidelong legs asks his
                    bride if she is nervous; she is a widow, and she answers, ‘No, never was.’ In
                    all these things there is very little humour. Where Keene achieved fun was in
                    the figures of his schoolboys. The hint of tenderness which in really fine work
                    could never be absent from a man's thought of a child or from his touch of one,
                    however frolic or rowdy the subject in hand, is absolutely lacking in Keene's
                    designs; nevertheless, we acknowledge that here is humour. It is also in some of
                    his clerical figures when they are not caricatures, and certainly in ‘Robert,’
                    the City waiter of Punch. But so irresistible is the derision of
                    the woman that all Charles Keene's persistent sense of vulgarity is intent
                    centrally upon her. Never for any grace gone astray is she bantered, never for
                    the social extravagances, for prattle, or for beloved dress; but always for her
                    jealousy, and for the repulsive person of the
                    man upon whom she spies and in whom she vindicates her ignoble rights. If this
                    is the shopkeeper the possession of whom is her boast, what then is she?
                This great immorality, centring in the irreproachable days of the Exhibition of
                    1851, or thereabouts—the pleasure in this particular form of human disgrace—has
                    passed, leaving one trace only: the habit by which some men reproach a silly
                    woman through her sex, whereas a silly man is not reproached through his sex.
                    But the vulgarity of which I have written here was distinctively English—the
                    most English thing that England had in days when she bragged of many another—and
                    it was not able to survive an increased commerce of manners and letters with
                    France. It was the chief immorality destroyed by French fiction.
            
        
        
        
            
                I am indebted to the Editor of ‘The National Observer’ for
                    permission to reprint the Essays that appeared in that paper.
            
        
    
